[date]23 March 2010[/date]
[title]Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation in Milestone Academic Collaboration with The Chinese University of Hong Kong To Boost Biotechnology in Hong Kong 
Advanced Biotechnology R&amp;D Facilities at CUHK Now Available to Companies Based in Science[/title]
Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation (HKSTPC) has signed an agreement with The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today enabling companies in Hong Kong Science Park to share CUHK’s advanced biotechnology facilities. This landmark agreement is expected to boost the biotechnology industry in Hong Kong, as established biotech companies and start-ups alike based in Science Park can utilise the facilities of CUHK to conduct sophisticated biotechnology research and development .
The HKSTPC-CUHK agreement marks a milestone in collaboration between the industry and academia. Companies in the Park can now harness the state-of-the-art laboratories at both Hong Kong Science Park and CUHK to develop biotechnology-based products designed for a wide range of industries, including pharmaceutical, agricultural and the environmental markets. Access to these combined facilities can also attract both start-up companies as well as established enterprises already engaged in biotech to come to Hong Kong.
The benefits for HKSTPC and CUHK of this collaboration are far-reaching as it solidifies Hong Kong’s foundation for innovative research and commercialisation in biotechnology. Companies based in Science Park can enjoy an array of complementary facilities at CUHK; whereas CUHK can optimise the use of their laboratories and equipments to their fullest potential, creating a mutually beneficial result for both the industry and academia.
Mr. Anthony Tan, Chief Executive Officer of HKSTPC said, “To realise our goal of creating a vibrant biotechnology cluster in Hong Kong requires access to cutting-edge technology and laboratories to both create and commercialise R&amp;D breakthroughs. The close collaboration between CUHK and HKSTPC provides an intellectual breeding ground for more innovative partnerships between academia and industry and a springboard for more industry-leading research and products in the future.”
The shared facilities available at CUHK include biomedical, health and life sciences related laboratories and equipment which enable more sophisticated biotech related experimental procedures, such as gene expression analysis and genotyping, DNA sequencing and cell analysis and sorting and more. The equipment list includes Affymetrix, BD FACS Aria II Flower Cytometer and ABI PRISM 3130X Genetic Analyzer, and more. These facilities, which are not available for public use, can broaden the scope of research and development for the technology companies in Science Park.
Prof. Henry Wong, CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor, said, “CUHK is extremely happy to establish a closer link with HKSTP, our neighbour. The collaboration will benefit both HKSTP and CUHK in the long run.”
As with other local industries that have thrived in Hong Kong, biotechnology has benefited from the tireless efforts of dedicated professionals and through the initiative of our businessmen and entrepreneurs. With biotechnology as one of the five focused clusters, HKSTPC is committed to ensuring the success of the industry. HKSTPC not only provides access to cutting-edge facilities at its Biotech Centre, our incubation programmes also offer industry focused support services to start-ups during the key stages of their development. Beyond this, HKSTPC has continuously embarked on initiatives such as the launch of the Life Science Acceleration Programme (LAP), a long-term, biotechnology-based funding and development scheme launched in partnership with Innovation and Technology Commission (ITC) in 2009, the Science Park Applied Research Commercialisation (SPARC) Forum, a bi-annual commercialising platform for Hong Kong and PRD’s start-ups to meet with potential venture capitalists, and more.
About Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation
Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation (HKSTPC) is a statutory body set up by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
HKSTPC provides innovative and technology driven infrastructure and support facilities which include market focused clustered laboratory services enabling Hong Kong industries and services to be more competitive; it provides a full-service incubation programme for technology and design start-ups, and fosters partnerships and collaboration between industry and universities/applied research institutes through consulting, training and research programmes. HKSTPC offers advanced facilities and support services for high technology companies that include an IC Design Centre, an IC Development Support Centre, a Materials Analysis Laboratory, a Wireless Communications Test Laboratory, an Intellectual Property Servicing Centre, a Solar Energy Technology Support Centre and a Biotech Centre.
More information about HKSTPC is available at www.hkstp.org.
About The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Founded in 1963, CUHK is a forward-looking comprehensive research university with a global vision and a mission to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West. Offering a wide range of multi-disciplinary courses, the University is dedicated to excellence in both teaching and research.
For more information about CUHK, please visit http://www.cuhk.edu.hk.
