[date]1 February 2010[/date]
[title]Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar 2009-10 to Speak on ‘From Pigs, Ducks and Goats, to Active Citizenship: The Transformation of Traditional Aid to Right-Based Development’  at CUHK
Public Lecture Opens for Registration[/title]
Mr. Jeremy Hobbs, Executive Director, Oxfam International and Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar 2009-10 will speak on ‘From Pigs, Ducks and Goats, to Active Citizenship: The Transformation of Traditional Aid to Right-Based Development’ at Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) at 5:00 pm this Wednesday, 3 February 2010.
Mr. Hobbs will talk about the fact that dramatic growth of advocacy and campaigning has become the major feature of development aid over the last 20 years. Increasingly official donors, international NGOs (non-governmental organizations) and NGOs in developing countries have moved to adopt advocacy approaches that address the structural causes of poverty, not just the symptoms. This shift towards holding duty bearers to account for their responsibilities - governments, multi-lateral agencies, transnational companies and large NGOs - brings some big challenges in terms of governance and management. It means developing new approaches to programs, fundraising, campaigns and the use of IT. Higher public visibility on public policy issues means the need for higher levels of public accountability. Accountability is key to good governance, improving the quality of aid and creating democratic space for communities.
Since 1989, Shaw College has been operating a scheme of visiting scholars and individuals. The objective is to invite every year an internationally distinguished scholar or individual to visit the College to give a number of lectures. Past visiting scholars include Prof. Yang Chen-ning, Prof. Lee Yuan-tseh, Prof. Yau Shing-tung, Prof. Ho Ping-ti, Prof. Andrew Yao, Prof. Charles Kao, Prof. Deborah Davis, Prof. Xu Guanhua, etc.
The lecture will be conducted in English. Members of the public are welcome to join. Shuttle bus service from the University MTR Station to the lecture venue will be provided at 4:30 pm and 4:40 pm. For registration, please contact Ms Ho at 2609 8538.
