[date]23 April 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents Long Service Awards to 65 Staff Members[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2009 Long Service Award to 65 staff who have worked for 25 or 35 years at the University. The awards ceremony was officiated by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lawrence J. Lau on 9 April. The jubilant awardees took pictures with family, friends and colleagues. The awardees were complimented for looking young and energetic on the occasion, and it was hard to believe that they have joined CUHK for over twenty or thirty years. It was joked that the green environment at CUHK had helped to slow down the ageing process.
Since its establishment over 46 years ago, CUHK is privileged to have many loyal staff who have served it for such a long time. They include office support, technical and teaching staff, ranking from janitor to Pro-Vice-Chancellor. They have stayed put in their positions, dedicating their best years to the University. Their loyal support has left its mark on every milestone the University has reached.
This year, 51 staff members were awarded the Long Service Award for 25 years and 14 staff members were awarded the award for 35 years. Some of them had known each other for 20 or even 30 years. The relationship between the University and its staff is characterized by mutual trust and respect.
Prof. Lawrence J. Lau expressed his heartfelt gratitude to the staff members for having devoted much time and effort to the University. ‘In the past 22 years, over 740 staff members had served CUHK for 25 years. This number indicates that a lot of colleagues enjoy working here and have developed a strong sense of belonging to the University. It also proves that CUHK is an ideal place for pursuing a lifelong career.’
Mr. Luk Yiu-wing, technician at the Multi-Discipline Laboratories of the School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, has served at the University for 35 years. He had worked at the University’s Administration Support Service and Biology Department before joining the Faculty of Medicine as Laboratory Attendant when it was founded in 1981. He was later promoted to Probationary Technician and Technician, witnessing and contributing to the growth of the Faculty. His major duties are to assist in teaching, especially in preparing the necessary materials and equipment for laboratory tests of various disciplines, including biochemistry, anatomy, physiology, and pharmacology, etc., as well as to assist students in carrying out experiments. A sport enthusiast, Mr. Luk represented the Medicine Faculty at the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon, as well as the Shaw College soccer team in various Vice-Chancellor’s Cups.
‘The job gives me immense satisfaction as it allows me to interact frequently with professors and medical students, which is as challenging as it is rewarding since it helps strengthen my communication skills and provides me with valuable knowledge,’ said Mr. Luk.
One of the recipients of the 25-year Award is Prof. Kwan Hoi-shan, a renowned expert in molecular biology and a dedicated alumnus. Professor Kwan obtained both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees at CUHK. Upon joining the CUHK Biology Department in 1984, he initiated the launch of the Food and Nutritional Sciences Programme at the Faculty of Science, and had served various important positions at the University, including Director of the Research Laboratory for Food Science, Programme Director of Molecular Biotechnology Programme, and Dean of Science. He had also served as Executive Committee Chairman and President of CUHK Teacher’s Association from 1997 to 2004. Professor Kwan is currently Professor at the Biology Department and Director of the University’s Food Research Centre. He founded the first-ever Food Composition Database in Hong Kong, aimed to promote food safety and to assist the local food industry in complying with the labelling scheme on nutrition information. He is active in providing public services, being both Chairman of the Expert Committee on Food Safety and Accreditation Advisory Board of the HKSAR Government, responsible for ensuring food safety in Hong Kong.
Professor Kwan said, ‘It's been 39 years since I entered the Biology Department of Chung Chi College, CUHK in 1971, and 26 years since I started serving the University in 1984. Time flies. Throughout the years, I have been blessed with the opportunity to contribute to CUHK in its remarkable growth in teaching and research, and to witness the University’s increasing contribution to society and its many monumental moments. I share the joy and tears of the University, and I guess my devotion to serve CUHK must have been inherited in my genes.’
Another recipient of the 25-year Award is Mrs. Chan Tsoi Yuk-yin, senior dental surgery assistant of the University Health Service. Her duties include providing assistance to dentists, taking care of patients, purchasing and providing general administrative supports to the Dental Unit. An active member of the CUHK Staff Association (CUSA) since 1992, she contributes to the welfare of her fellow colleagues by organizing different staff activities, such as annual activities, singing contests, ball games at the Vice-Chancellor’s Cup and Fun Fair, etc., to promote harmonious work relationship. Throughout the 25 years, she has established excellent rapport with her colleagues.
Mrs. Chan is always willing to reach out her helping hand to others, ‘It is my duty to help patients. I find it most rewarding when they are satisfied with our service. Their words of thanks mean a lot to me.’
The 25-year Long Service Award was introduced in 1988. The award includes a certificate and a gold lapel pin. The 35-year Long Service Award was inaugurated last year and has been awarded to 66 staff members including 14 this year. Each was awarded a certificate and a trophy.
