[date]14 March 2010[/date]
[title]Close to 3,000 Walk with Charles Kao at CUHK Walkathon Raising $3 Million[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) organized the ‘Walk with Professor Kao’ CUHK Walkathon this morning (14 March) to raise funds for the Charles K. Kao Scholarship Endowment Fund and an online training programme for family caregivers of people with cognitive loss. Close to 3,000 walkers, comprising current students, staff, alumni, Council members, friends of CUHK and the public, came in support of the causes. The kick-off ceremony was officiated by Prof. and Mrs. Charles Kao; Dr. Vincent Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman; Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, CUHK Vice-Chancellor; Prof. Ma Lin and Prof. Ambrose King, former CUHK Vice-Chancellors; and Mr. Lau Sai-yung, Chairman of the CUHK Convocation. The event raised HK$3 million and helped to heighten awareness of the importance of research and innovation, and care for the community.
Prof. Lawrence J. Lau thanked the participants for coming to CUHK campus for this meaningful activity. He said, ‘The Charles K. Kao Scholarship Endowment Fund was established to commemorate the extraordinary achievements of Professor Kao, and to encourage CUHK students to emulate his relentless pursuit of knowledge, engage in innovative scientific research, and ultimately do good to mankind. Part of the funds raised today will be used to develop an online training programme for family caregivers of people with cognitive loss.’
Mr. Lau Sai-yung, Chairman of the CUHK Convocation, thanked alumni for their support. ‘One of the functions of the CUHK Convocation is to raise funds for CUHK and for charity. Besides University members, I’m very happy to see the presence of many friends of the University, including family and friends of alumni, as well as students, parents and teachers from schools affiliated with the Education Foundation of the Federation of Alumni Associations of CUHK. On behalf of the CUHK Convocation, I extend my heart-felt thanks to all of you for you generosity to CUHK and to society.’
Mrs. Kao is pleased to see the overwhelming support from the community, ‘The azaleas are in full bloom, so it is a beautiful time to be walking around the campus for such beneficial causes. The walkers are breathing in fresher air to enhance their health, the exercise is good for them and they are contributing to worthy causes for the benefit of the community too - my grateful thanks to everyone.’
Alumni, staff, students and friends of CUHK, along with corporations, primary, secondary, and even kindergarten school students and their parents responded enthusiastically by forming teams of their affiliation to support the event. They carried with them colourful banners to the kick-off ceremony to show their support and pay tribute to Professor Kao. Among them were the Colleges and Faculties of the University, as well as a number of teams from sponsors. BOCHK Charitable Foundation, the platinum sponsor of the event, mobilized hundreds of staff to join the walk. Close to 20 teams competed for awards to encourage the most number of participants from Colleges and the best fundraiser as a team or an individual. The awards will be announced at a later date when all donations are received.
Walkers started from the Lingnan Stadium of Chung Chi College and ended at the University Mall. Some took the longer route of 90 minutes while others enjoyed a shorter 45-minute route. All walkers got to enjoy scenic views of the Tolo Harbour, Pat Sin Leng and the beautiful bloom of azaleas on the way to the finish line. After the walk, participants also visited the exhibition in the University Library where Professor Kao’s Nobel Prize Medal and Diploma along with his other precious awards are on display.
To further support the development of CUHK, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/english/giving.html.