[date]25 January 2010[/date]
[title]Foundation Stone Laid for CUHK Lee Woo Sing College[/title]
The Foundation Stone Laying Ceremony of Lee Woo Sing College, one of the five new Colleges of CUHK, was held today (25 January), kicking off the construction of the College. The ceremony was officiated by The Honourable Tsang Tak-sing, Secretary for Home Affairs; Prof. Zhang Junsheng, Chairman of the Development Committee of Zhe Jiang University; Mr. Yao Eng-chi, Chairman of Pao-Sang Education Foundation and President of The Cross-Strait Hakka Cultural and Economic Exchange Association; Dr. Alice Piera Lam Lee Kiu-yue; Mr. Lee Woo-sing; Dr. Li Wo-hing, Founder of Lee Woo Sing College; Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; and Prof. Joseph W.Y. Lau, Founding Master of Lee Woo Sing College. Over a hundred members of the University and supporters of the College attended the ceremony, including the existing and ex-Trustees of Shaw College and committee members of the Shanghai Fraternity Association of Hong Kong.
Lee Woo Sing College was established in 2007 with the generous support of Dr. Li Wo-hing, the College Founder, and his family. It is named after Dr. Li’s brother, Mr. Lee Woo-sing in honour of Mr. Lee’s long-term commitment to the advancement of education, his passion and contributions in nurturing talent for the nation and Hong Kong, and his selfless public services. ‘The ultimate goal of education is to enhance the quality of the human race. At Lee Woo Sing College, we aim at nurturing leaders for Hong Kong, the Mainland and the world.’ Dr. Li stresses that the College will emphasize tolerance and fraternity, and its students will be encouraged to be thankful and to give back to the community.
Mr. Lee Woo-sing, a staunch supporter of CUHK who has shown tremendous concern for its colleges and their development, has high expectations of Lee Woo Sing College. ‘A college does not only impart knowledge; it also cultivates among students a commitment to the needy, to elders, and to the community,’ remarks Mr. Lee. He wishes that students of Lee Woo Sing College will be encouraged to serve the community and the country; to achieve ‘harmony’, the College’s motto in their dealings with the world; to treat others with moderation; to be objective in their analyses and receptive of different opinions in their approach to problems.
CUHK has been actively integrating an international dimension into its teaching programmes and research activities since its establishment in 1963. Its college system is unique among tertiary institutions in Hong Kong. Every undergraduate student at CUHK is affiliated to a College, which provides students with pastoral care and enhance their personal development. Apart from formal education, Colleges also help cultivate closer relationships with teachers and peers. ‘The establishment of Lee Woo Sing College at CUHK by Dr. Li Wo-hing and his family is a perfect manifestation of the traditional Chinese virtue of fraternity. It also gives us the honour to name our new College after Mr. Lee Woo-sing to commemorate the significant achievements and contributions of both Dr. Li and his family to the Chinese University. On behalf of all teachers and students, I would like to take this opportunity to express our heartfelt gratitude to the brothers - Mr. Lee Woo-sing and Dr. Li Wo-hing,’ says CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lawrence J. Lau at the ceremony. He sincerely hopes that Lee Woo Sing College, which is built along the hills in the high-level precinct of the campus, will create a caring and congenial environment for nurturing the young and fostering their development.
Located on Residence Road in the valley in front of the Chan Chun Ha Hostel, Lee Woo Sing College can accommodate 600 residential students and in addition up to 600 non-residential students. It is expected to admit its first cohort of students in the 2011-2012 academic year. Apart from seeking to cultivate among students a commitment to personal responsibility and integrity, Lee Woo Sing College will strengthen students’ understanding of and links to Hong Kong, the Mainland and the world. The aim is to enable them to build successful careers in the future, and to encourage them to contribute to their alma mater and the community. ‘The last piece of the jigsaw in a young person’s education should be furnished by the collegiate experience. By joining the activities and experiencing non-formal education organized by the colleges, students can learn from each other through mutual discussions and broaden their perspectives. The general education offered by the colleges will also help students develop their communication and leadership skills, and teach them the proper ways of conducting themselves in society,’ says Prof. Joseph W.Y. Lau, Founding Master of Lee Woo Sing College.
To cater for the increased student enrolment of 3,000 upon the reversion to a four-year curriculum in 2012, CUHK requires more colleges to maintain its quality of education. With the generous support of benefactors, CUHK has established five new Colleges, namely Morningside College, S.H. Ho College, C.W. Chu College, Wu Yee Sun College and Lee Woo Sing College. In conjunction with the existing four Colleges, Chung Chi College, New Asia College, United College and Shaw College, the five new Colleges will provide a spectrum of choice for undergraduate students.
