[date]5 February 2010[/date]
[title]Former U.S. Ambassador to China Clark T. Randt Speaks on ‘The Emergence of China and U.S. - China Relations’ at CUHK Today[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented a public lecture by Mr. Clark T. Randt, Jr., former United States Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China, on ‘The Emergence of China and U.S. – China Relations’ today (5 February) on campus. About 130 guests attended the lecture, including CUHK staff and students, members of the political, business, and academic sectors, and various foreign consuls.
Ambassador Clark T. Randt is the longest serving United States Ambassador to the People’s Republic of China, who served in the position from July 2001 to January 2009.
Ambassador Randt is a lawyer fluent in Chinese Mandarin, has lived and worked in Asia for more than 30 years. He was a resident of Beijing from 1982 through 1984 where he served as First Secretary and Commercial Attache at the U.S. Embassy. He then lived in Hong Kong for 18 years, most recently as a partner with the international law firm of Shearman &amp; Sterling where he headed the firm’s substantial China practice. He is a member of the New York and Hong Kong bars and is a recognized expert on Chinese law.
In 1974, Ambassador Randt was the China representative of the National Council for United States-China Trade and, from 1968 to 1972, he served in the United States Air Force Security Service.
After preparing at Hotchkiss School, Ambassador Randt graduated from Yale University with a B.A. in 1968 and received his Juris Doctor from the University of Michigan in l975. He also attended Harvard Law School where he was awarded the East Asia Legal Studies Traveling Fellowship to China. Ambassador Randt is a former Governor, First Vice President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. He is married and has three children.
CUHK has been organising the Consuls General / diplomats lecture series since 2005. A number of famous diplomats, including the Consuls General of the USA, UK, Japan, France, Korea, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Italy, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to PRC, and the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC in Hong Kong have delivered lectures on the CUHK campus.