[date]13 April 2010[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Appoints Four College Heads and Masters-Designate[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announced the appointment of the Heads of New Asia College and Shaw College, and Masters-Designate of C.W. Chu College and Wu Yee Sun College. Prof. Shun Kwong-loi, Sin Wai Kin Professor of Chinese Culture, Department of Philosophy, will serve as the Head of New Asia College; Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration, will serve as the Head of Shaw College; Prof. Kenneth Young, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Physics, will be the Master-Designate of C.W. Chu College; while Prof. Rance P.L. Lee, Emeritus Professor of Sociology, will be the Master-Designate of Wu Yee Sun College. The University Council also thanked the two outgoing Heads, Prof. Henry N.C. Wong of New Asia College and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung of Shaw College, for their significant contributions to the Colleges.
Prof. Shun Kwong-loi Appointed New Head of New Asia College
An eminent philosopher, Prof. Shun Kwong-loi was born in Hong Kong and serves as Sin Wai Kin Professor of Chinese Culture, CUHK. He obtained his first and second degrees from the University of Hong Kong and the Oxford University. In 1986, he received his PhD from Stanford University. After that, he taught at the University of California at Berkeley for 17 years and was appointed Dean of the Undergraduate Division, College of Letters and Science in 2000. He was the Vice-President of the University of Toronto and the first-ever Chinese Principal of the University of Toronto at Scarborough prior to joining CUHK in 2007. He specializes in Chinese philosophy, in particular Confucianism. Apart from his rich experience in university administration, Professor Shun is also a dedicated teacher and researcher. Believing that inspiration and motivation are of vital importance to young people in their formative years, he particularly attaches great importance to undergraduate education. He will succeed Prof. Henry N.C. Wong as Head of New Asia College for a period of four years commencing 1 August 2010.
As an authority on Confucian studies, Professor Shun identifies very much with the spirit of New Asia College. He said, ‘New Asia College strives to preserve and promote Chinese culture and integrate it with modern learning. I will do my best to continue the honourable tradition of the College and promote Chinese culture and history, thus nurturing young students with talent, integrity and understanding of both Chinese and Western culture.’
Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan Appointed New Head of Shaw College
Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan is currently Professor in the Department of Marketing and Director of the Executive MBA Programme. Graduated from CUHK in 1977, he obtained his MBA and PhD from the University of California at Berkeley and CUHK respectively. He is an expert in strategic marketing and cross-cultural marketing, and a professional business negotiator specializing in Chinese market. He also excels in teaching and was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award in 2001. Professor Chan has been active in participating in public service, being chairman of the Consumer Council of Hong Kong for six consecutive years, and is currently chairman of the Hong Kong Deposit Protection Board, and a member of the Electoral Affairs Commission and the Quality Tourism Services Association. In 2005, he was appointed as a Justice of the Peace by the HKSAR Government, and was conferred the Silver Bauhinia Star (SBS) in recognition of his contribution to society. He will be appointed as Head of Shaw College for a period of four years from 1 July 2010, succeeding Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung.
Since joining Shaw College in 1987, Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan has served as a member of its Board of Trustees and different committees. Sparing no effort in facilitating student education and college activities, Professor Chan is happy to be appointed Head of the College. He said, ‘I will uphold the College spirit of “Excellence with a Soul, Leadership with a Heart” and serve to contribute to the students’ well-being.’
Prof. Kenneth Young Appointed Founding Master-Designate of C.W. Chu College
Renowned theoretical physicist Prof. Kenneth Young is currently Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Physics at CUHK. He obtained his bachelor’s degree in 1969, and his PhD in Physics and Mathematics in 1972, both from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in the US. He joined CUHK in 1973, and was Chairman of the Department of Physics, Dean of the Faculty of Science, and Dean of the Graduate School, and has been serving as the Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University since 1994. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and a Member of the International Eurasian Academy of Sciences. With a passion in teaching, Professor Young received the Vice-Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award in 2004. To him, the mission of university education is to educate students with advanced knowledge in a discipline, and to cultivate their values and their concern for society. He has benefited much from his undergraduate studies at Caltech, a small university with student houses operated on the basis of full residence and communal dining.
Professor Young feels honoured to be appointed Master-Designate of C.W. Chu College. He said, ‘The new four-year curriculum starting 2012 offers an important opportunity to enhance the quality of education at CUHK. Colleges will play an important part in this task, especially in general and informal education. I look forward to contributing to this effort at C.W. Chu College and thank all the benefactors who have helped to make the College possible.’ In memory of the late Dr. Chu Ching-wen, C. W. Chu College was established in 2007 with very generous support of donors including Mr. Peter Yip and Mr. David Chu, son of Dr. Chu. With ‘Cultus et Beneficentia’ as its motto, the College will seek to cultivate among its students the spirit of self-help and helping others, advocated and personally practised by the late Dr. C.W. Chu. The College will accommodate 300 students on a fully residential and communal dining basis. It will admit its first batch of students in 2012.
Prof. Rance P.L. Lee Appointed Founding Master-Designate of Wu Yee Sun College
Prof. Rance Lee, Emeritus Professor of Sociology of CUHK, was Head of Chung Chi College for ten years and is a staunch supporter of the college system. Professor Lee graduated from CUHK in 1965 and obtained his PhD from the University of Pittsburgh in 1968. He then returned to teach at his alma mater. He was named Professor of Sociology in 1984, and has been active in university administration and research in his capacities as Director of the Social Research Centre and Dean of Social Science. While serving as Head of Chung Chi College from 1994 to 2004, Professor Lee contributed greatly to advance the development of the College. He is also an expert in medical sociology and social survey, and has made significant contribution to social sciences researches. His professionalism is widely recognized by the government and public bodies. He was a member of numerous professional organizations, such as the Central Policy Unit, Social Welfare Advisory Committee, Health Services Research Committee, The Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal Panel, etc. In 1997, he received the Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) from Queen Elizabeth II. Professor Lee is appointed Master-Designate of Wu Yee Sun College. With the most generous support of Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited, CUHK was able to establish Wu Yee Sun College as one of its constituent colleges in 2007. The new College will house 1,200 students, among whom 600 will be residential students. The College will admit its first class of students in 2012.
Professor Lee has tremendous respect for Dr. Wu Yee Sun, founder of the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Ltd., for his contributions to social and economic development, education, and promotion of the art of bonsai. ‘I hope to create in Wu Yee Sun College a rich academic atmosphere, facilitating students to study business management, improving their appreciation of art, and increasing their awareness of protecting the environment. I will also encourage students to contribute to society with their creativity.’
CUHK New Colleges
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has a residential college system with a long and treasured tradition. To cater for the needs entailed by the reversion to a four-year curriculum in 2012, CUHK has established Morningside College, S. H. Ho College, C. W. Chu College, Wu Yee Sun College and Lee Woo Sing College. Together with the four existing Colleges, namely, Chung Chi College, New Asia College, United College and Shaw College, they will provide a spectrum of choice for undergraduate students.
The University has earlier appointed Sir James Mirrlees as Master of Morningside College, Prof. Sun Sai-ming Samuel as Master of S. H. Ho College, and Prof. Lau Wan-yee Joseph as Master of Lee Woo Sing College. Morningside College and S. H. Ho College will admit their first batches of students in autumn 2010. Morningside College will admit around 80 students while S. H. Ho College around 160. The other three new Colleges will begin their admission in or before 2012.
