[date]25 January 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK MBA Ranks 28 Worldwide in Financial Times MBA Ranking[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) ranks No. 28 worldwide in the Financial Times (FT) Top 100 Global Full-time MBA Ranking released today.
Prof. T.J. Wong, Dean of the CUHK Faculty of Business Administration believes the ranking is a significant recognition of the Faculty’s efforts over the years, “This denotes a great advancement of our MBA Programs following a series of new initiatives in the past few years. Leveraging our faculty’s China focus and extensive alumni network, we aim to nurture our students insights in China through the introduction of a China Business concentration. We are grateful to see some of them did successfully start their career on the mainland after graduation. To enhance our students’ ability to cope with changes in the global business landscape, we have also launched new courses on ‘Corporate Risk Management’ and ‘Global Challenges and Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility’ this year.”
Among various key areas of the FT Ranking, CUHK MBA Programs score high in a number of areas, which include “Career Progress” (Rank 7th in the world and top in Asia), “Salary Percentage Increase” (127%, top 9th in the world), “International Experience” (Rank 12th in the world). Most of the students praise the MBA Program for helping them to achieve their academic and career goals. Over 60% of our 2008 graduates have achieved double or triple increase in their salaries. In 2009, despite the financial crisis, 47% of our graduates have gained access to global job markets by joining corporations outside their home countries, spreading across 13 different countries. This helps further extend the Faculty’s alumni network to almost every major city in the world.
To further achieve our mission as a gateway between China and the rest of the world, we have a number of exciting projects including our recent partnership with the Kuwait-Asia University (KAU) to establish the KAU Business School in Kuwait. This innovative partnership will, for the first time, synergize the expertise of both Asia (China) and the Middle East to nurture top business talents for the keys to success in the two regions. Other partnerships include a dual degree option with the MIT Sloan School of Management, which provides students with the opportunity to study in MIT Sloan Master of Science in Management Studies Program after completion of their first-year study in CUHK; and a US field study program partnering with UC Berkeley.
Equal emphasis is also put on further extending our presence in mainland China. With the establishment of the new CUHK research institute in Shenzhen, which is now under construction, the Faculty will continue our strong focus on China business research while consolidating our mainland postgraduate programs to build a business education hub to serve the Pearl River Delta Region.
