[date]5 February 2010[/date]
[title]Nobel Laureate and Former Vice-Chancellor Charles Kao Guest of Honour at CUHK Nobel Exhibition[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is honoured to welcome Prof. and Mrs. Charles K. Kao to the campus today (5 February) as guests of honour at the opening ceremony of the CUHK exhibition ‘The Lore of a Laureate: A Tribute to Charles Kao, Former CUHK Vice-Chancellor and Nobel Laureate’. This is their first public appearance in Hong Kong after the presentation of the Nobel Prize to Professor Kao last December. Dr. the Honourable Donald Tsang, the Chief Executive of the HKSAR and CUHK Chancellor; Dr. Vincent Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman; Prof. Benjamin W. Wah, CUHK Acting Vice-Chancellor; as well as two CUHK Distinguished Professors-at-Large and Nobel Laureates, Prof. Yang Chen-ning and Prof. Sir James A. Mirrlees officiated at the ceremony. Over 200 University members and distinguished guests were present on the occasion to share the glory of Professor Kao. The public will soon be able to watch a live broadcast of the ceremony featuring the ‘Father of Fibre Optics’ on the CUHK website (www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/charleskao).
Dr. Vincent Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, warmly welcomed Professor and Mrs. Kao. He thanked Professor Kao for making pivotal contributions to the high standards and the international reputation in teaching and research that CUHK enjoys today. To commemorate Professor Kao’s immense contributions, Dr. Cheng announced the establishment of the ‘Charles K. Kao Scholarship Endowment Fund’. The fund will support outstanding undergraduate students majoring in Physics and Engineering who have demonstrated their potential in innovative and creative projects for overseas exchange and research internships. As an eminent scientist and a committed educator, Professor Kao has been devoted to nurturing independent thinking in students and developing innovative ideas on research. Through the Scholarship, the University aims to encourage its students to look upon Professor Kao as a model to strive for innovation and academic excellence.
'Professor Kao’s achievements and commitment have inspired young scientists to dedicate themselves to pushing the boundaries of scientific research. His Nobel Prize also raises public awareness of the importance of innovation and scientific research as well as the development of technology,’ said the Chief Executive, Dr. Donald Tsang. He also encouraged young people to consider Professor Kao as a role model.
Mrs. Charles Kao remarked, ‘Charles studied in Hong Kong for his high schooling, he has taught here, he was the Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University and retired here too. In all he has lived in Hong Kong for over 30 years. So he is a Hong Kong belonger. That Hong Kong is so excited with a home grown engineer who was awarded a Nobel Prize for Physics 2009, is very understandable. He rejoices with you all.’
The University is pleased to receive support from various sponsors and organizations towards the establishment of the scholarship, and calls upon more support for this worthy cause. To this end, the University will organize ‘Walk with Professor Kao’ CUHK Walkathon in the morning of 14 March (Sunday), with Professor and Mrs. Kao officiating at its Kick-off Ceremony. Members of the public are welcome to join Professor and Mrs. Kao in taking a stroll around the beautiful campus of the Chinese University. To participate in this meaning event, please complete the application form available on CUHK website (http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oia/cuhkwalkathon) and return by 8 March.
Part of the donations from the Walkathon will be used to develop a web-based training programme for family caregivers to learn about taking care of people with cognitive loss. CUHK and The Jockey Club Centre for Positive Ageing have been providing day care for people with cognitive loss for nearly a decade. With the increasing use of the Internet, web-based training has become an effective means to deliver training to family caregivers of people with cognitive loss.
The CUHK exhibition, ‘The Lore of a Laureate: A Tribute to Charles Kao, Former CUHK Vice-Chancellor and Nobel Laureate’, showcases the Nobel Prize Medal and Diploma, and various precious medals of Professor Kao. The exhibition also makes use of multimedia presentations to highlight Professor Kao’s lifetime of achievements, so as to enhance the public’s understanding of his legendary contribution to fibre optic communication technology. Important video footages of Professor Kao are shown, which include the presentation of the Nobel Prize Award to Professor Kao in Stockholm last December, the Nobel Lecture in Physics by Professor Kao delivered by Mrs. Kao, as well as the various University activities attended by Professor Kao during his vice-chancellorship at CUHK.
The exhibition focuses on six themes: 1) Professor Kao’s chronology which introduces different stages in Professor Kao’s life; 2) first-hand materials of the Nobel Prize award ceremony and the Nobel Lecture, and congratulatory letters from all over the world; 3) significant advancements of the University during Professor Kao’s Vice-Chancellorship, related publications and his personal belongings; 4) a look back on the history of fibre optic communication, and insights on the future development of the technology; 5) publications by Professor Kao as an academic giant; and 6) lecture notes and household utensils made of pottery by Professor Kao, unveiling his artistic talent.
The exhibition will run from tomorrow (6 February) until 20 March at the Exhibition Hall on G/F of University Library, Main Campus, CUHK, Shatin. Free admission. The public are welcome to attend. Opening hours are as follows:   
Monday to Friday:
10 am to 7 pm
Saturday:
10 am to 6 pm
Sunday:
1 pm to 6 pm
During the Chinese New Year:  
13-16 February:
Close
17-19 February:
10 am to 6 pm
20 February:
10 am to 4 pm
