[date]10 December 2009[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 
67th Congregation for Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 67th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees today (10 December). Dr. the Honourable Donald Tsang, GBM, Chancellor of the University presided at the Congregation.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong conferred honorary doctorates on three distinguished persons, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and scientific advancement, socio-economic progress, promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of the University. They are: Dr. Song Jian, a distinguished state leader and scientist; Dr. the Honourable Tang Ying-Yen Henry, Chief Secretary for Administration of the HKSAR; and Prof. Roger Y. Tsien, 2008 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry.
Dr. Song Jian and Dr. the Honourable Tang Ying-Yen Henry were conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Prof. Roger Y. Tsien was conferred the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa.
Besides the three honorary doctorate degrees, a total of 7,136 degrees were conferred at the congregation. These included 5 Doctor of Medicine, 247 Doctor of Philosophy, 4 Doctor of Education, one Doctor of Music and CUHK’s first Doctor of Psychology degrees, 3,933 students receiving Master’s degrees and 2,945 students receiving Bachelor’s degrees. Among the last were 503 Bachelor of Arts (including the first batch of two Bachelor of Arts (Inter-faculty)), 617 Bachelor of Business Administration, 22 Bachelor of Education, 332 Bachelor of Engineering, 133 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 171 Bachelor of Nursing, 27 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 17 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 596 Bachelor of Science (including the first batch of six Double Degree in Mathematics and Information Engineering (First Degree)), 495 Bachelor of Social Science degrees, and the first batch of 32 students receiving the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education Co-terminal Double Degree.
