[date]21 September 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Accountancy Graduates Swept All Top Awards 
in the Latest HKICPA’s QP Final Examination[/title]
Graduates from the BBA in Professional Accountancy Programme (PAC) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) won all the top awards in the latest Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA) Qualification Programme (QP) Examination held in June 2009. It is the first time ever in the history of the QP that the Gold, Silver, bronze and the ICAEW/Simon Morris Memorial Prize have all been awarded to graduates from the same university. In total, nine CUHK graduates seized 13 top prizes in the QP module examinations held in 2008 and 2009.
Among them, seven top prize winners are accounting graduates, including Ms Wong Hau Yan (Top Prize in Module B, Financial Management); Mr. Yeung Tin Wai (Top Prize in Module D, Taxation); Ms Jing Chui Suen (Gold Award Prize Winner, Li Fook Shu Memorial Prize); Mr Chan Zhong Wai (Silver Award Prize); Ms Chan Wai Yi (Bronze Award Prize); Ms Li Pui In (The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales / Simon Morris Memorial Prize) and, Mr. But Ho Chun (ICAEW/Simon Morris Memorial Prize winner of December 2008 Session).
Prof. Danqing Young, Director of the School of Accountancy at CUHK, said, 'We are extremely delighted to witness the outstanding performance of our graduates and are confident that they will make the best use of their knowledge to contribute to the accounting profession and the community. Over the years, performance of our accounting graduates has been highly commended by major accounting firms and large corporations. Despite the volatile economic situation, our accounting graduates have gained an average of two job offers each, with one of them gaining five this year. At present, about 98% of our 2009 PAC graduates have already successfully embarked on their new careers, with more than 80% joining the Big Four and other accounting firms. Others have chosen to join different fields such as the banking and financial industries as well as the public sector, while a few have chosen to pursue their studies. We are indeed very grateful to the employers and HKICPA for their support to our graduates.'
HKICPA’s Qualification Programme is designed to train accountants to deal with business situations typical in Hong Kong as an international financial centre. The programme builds on a university education, and expands into application of accounting knowledge and professional skills in areas such as financial reporting, corporate financing, taxation, auditing and information management. Those who wish to be qualified as a CPA in Hong Kong are required to complete the Institute’s QP and undergo a structured practical training under an authorized employer or supervisor to gain relevant experience.
