[date]23 November 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK and U.S. Geological Survey Sign Protocol on Earth Sciences Collaboration[/title]
The Institute of Space and Earth Information Science (ISEIS) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) of the U.S. Department of the Interior have recently entered into a protocol on scientific and technical cooperation in earth sciences, making CUHK the first Asian university that reaches such a broad-based research agreement with USGS. CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lawrence J. Lau and USGS Associate Director for Geography Dr. Bryant Cramer officiated at the signing ceremony in the presence of Mr. Martin Murphy, Economic/Political Section Chief of the U.S. Consulate General in Hong Kong, and key members of CUHK, ISEIS and USGS.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Prof. Lawrence J. Lau remarked, ‘Geoinformation and earth sciences is one of the five strategic research areas of CUHK. Today’s signing will provide a formal platform for CUHK to make major contributions to remote sensing and its application in the U.S. and around the world. I firmly believe by joining forces with USGS, we will be able to tackle some of the most pressing environmental issues that the world is facing right now.’
CUHK and USGS share common interest in geographic information science, technology development, and other earth science topics. Under the auspices of this protocol, both parties can enhance cooperation in acquiring and managing remotely sensed data, conducting earth and environmental science research for applications, and implementing other common responsibilities and exchanges.
About the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science
ISEIS was established in 2005 on the basis of the Joint Laboratory for Geoinformation Science (JLGIS) of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and CUHK. As the only national base for satellite remote sensing in Hong Kong, the Institute is equipped with a middle-high resolution satellite remote sensing ground receiving station, which provides researchers and students a unique opportunity to carry out earth observation-related activities. ISEIS's main research areas include cloud-prone and rainy-areas remote sensing (CARRS), virtual geographic environments (VGE), emergency response and natural disaster monitoring and management, urban and metropolitan geographic information systems (GIS), analysis and modelling of urban settlement environments, public health and GIS, intelligent transport system (ITS), and spatially integrated humanities and social science. ISEIS has received numerous international recognitions over the years for its outstanding research work. Earlier this year, CUHK also joined the Universities Space Research Association (USRA) as its first and only Asian member among other world-renowned universities such as Harvard, Yale, Stanford, and Princeton.
About the U.S. Geological Survey
USGS is a scientific agency of the U.S. government created by an act of Congress in 1879. Headquartered in Reston, Virginia, USGS is a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior and employs over 8,500 staff. USGS has four major science disciplines: biology, geography, geology, and hydrology. Its mission is to serve the country by providing reliable scientific information to describe and understand the Earth; minimizing loss of life and property from natural disasters; managing water, biological, energy, and mineral resources; and enhancing and safeguarding people’s quality of life.
