[date]20 October 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK’s Search Committee for Appointment of Vice-Chancellor unanimously recommends Professor Joseph Jao-yiu Sung as the Final Candidate[/title]
Today, CUHK’s Search Committee for Appointment of Vice-Chancellor unanimously recommends Professor Joseph Jao-yiu Sung as the candidate for appointment as Vice-Chancellor. CUHK’s Council will first arrange Professor Sung to meet with members of the University including staff, students and alumni and listen to their views on the recommended appointment of Professor Sung as the next Vice-Chancellor. The Council will then hold a special meeting on 10 November 2009 to consider the recommendation of the Search Committee and the views of members of the University thereon before deciding on the Vice-Chancellor appointment.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, the current Vice-Chancellor of CUHK decided to retire on the expiry of his term on 30 June 2010. Consequently, CUHK’s Council established the Search Committee for the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor in accordance with the University Statutes.
The Search Committee organized four consultation sessions between 11 and 19 May 2009 to listen to views expressed by members of the University on the Vice-Chancellor search. With the assistance of the search consultant firm, the announcement on the search for CUHK’s Vice-Chancellor was published in newspapers in Hong Kong, the Mainland and overseas. Invitations were sent to over 4,000 persons around the world who had academic ties with CUHK, to nominate suitable persons for consideration.
During the past several months, the Search Committee selected from among close to 200 nominations/applications received several persons from Hong Kong and overseas to meet with the Search Committee. The Search Committee made reference to the views expressed by members of the University in the aforesaid consultation sessions. After careful deliberation, the Search Committee unanimously recommends Professor Sung for appointment by the Council as CUHK’s next Vice-Chancellor.
The Council will arrange for Professor Sung to meet with staff, students, alumni and other members of the University in the next three weeks and will listen to their views on the recommendation of the Search Committee before deciding on the appointment.
For the curriculum vitae of Professor Joseph Jao-yiu Sung, please refer to the attachment.
