[date]8 December 2009[/date]
[title]Live Broadcast of the Nobel Lecture in Physics at CUHK[/title]
The 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics will be presented this Thursday (10 December) to Prof. Charles K. Kao, former Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and ‘Father of Fibre Optics’, for his groundbreaking achievements in optical fibre communication. Chinese communities worldwide take enormous pride in Professor Kao’s accomplishments.
The Nobel Foundation has arranged the Nobel Laureates to give a public lecture on a subject connected with his/her work for which the prize has been awarded before the Nobel Prize Award Ceremony. The Nobel Lecture in Physics by Professor Kao, entitled ‘Sand from centuries past; Send future voices fast’, was delivered today (8 December) by Mrs. Gwen Kao at Stockholm, Sweden. The lecture was broadcast live on the CUHK campus. Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, CUHK Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Kenneth Young, CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor, and around 300 members of the University and public gathered on campus to witness this memorable occasion.
Prof. Lawrence J. Lau said, ‘The lecture told the marvellous story of Professor Kao’s groundbreaking research on the transmission of light in fibres for optical communication, which heralded the information revolution and subsequently changed the world. The raw material of his great invention is sand from the sea, which is abundant and inexhaustible, and from which optical fibres are made. And thanks to fibre optics, we are able to share this great moment with Professor Kao today at real time, in this lecture hall, 8,000 kilometres away from Stockholm.’
He continued, ‘As members of The Chinese University, as citizens of Hong Kong, and as Chinese people, we are all proud of Professor Charles Kao, who is the ninth scholar of Chinese ethnic origin to have won the Nobel Prize. An eminent scientist and a devoted educator, Professor Kao will certainly be most pleased to learn that many a young student is ready to follow in his footsteps to explore the wonderful world of science.’
Before the lecture, the audience cheered for Professor Kao by waving special mini flags. Many of them have also left their congratulatory messages on a message board to salute to one of the greatest scientists of our time. There were also exhibition panels on Professor Kao at the venue to enhance the audience’s understanding of his achievements.
Besides Professor Kao’s lecture, the University also broadcast live lectures by the other two Nobel Laureates in Physics this year, Willard Sterling Boyle and George Elwood Smith, for the University community and the public to benefit from their wisdom.