[date]19 October 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK EMBA – Ranked No. 19 Worldwide
Among Top 20 Programmes Worldwide for 9 consecutive years (2001-2009)[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Executive MBA Programme has scored high in the London-based Financial Times 2009 ranking as the top 19 EMBA programme worldwide. The Programme has been consistently ranked high among the world’s top 20 EMBA programmes since the newspaper’s first launch of global EMBA ranking in 2001.
“We are very pleased to see the good performance of the programme. We are the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong Kong product. The Programme’s success is, therefore, Hong Kong’s success,” Professor Andrew C. F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme said, “In addition, we owe the result to the support of our University management and the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, staff, students, alumni and our devoted friends in the business community.”
It scored high in areas such as alumni’s salary today, salary increase, work experience, international advisory board, and women faculty. Alumni’s salary is the 5th highest in the world. The programme’s graduates also achieved a high salary increase rate of 64% this year despite the volatile market situation as a result of the global financial tsunami.
It is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, but also one of two programmes in the top 20 where the medium of teaching is bilingual (the other is IMD in Switzerland).
“As always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit,” Prof Chan said, “What is important is maintaining our ability to nurture top-notched management talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the region.”
“We will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory and practice, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since 2002, enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders. As such we have co-organized with RTHK, ATV, Cable TV and now BNC the popular “Talking to CEOs” series, and the “New Thinking in Management” live programme currently aired every Sunday afternoon on RTHK’s Radio One. For reaching a broader spectrum of audience and readers, the content of these programmes as well as that of our EMBA Forum, Conference, Seminars, etc. were published and produced regularly in the format of books, DVDs, CDs and newspapers such as Hong Kong Economic Journal, Hong Kong Economic Journal Monthly and Sing Tao Daily. We have also recently launched the “EMBA Insights” session for students, alumni and different experts to discuss the contemporary issues such as, the recent global financial tsunami.” said Prof. Chan.
