[date]17 November 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Holds International Conference to Explore the Developmental Positioning and Comparative Strength of Hong Kong and Shanghai [/title]
To encourage mainland-Hong Kong academic exchanges and to provide a platform for both mainland and Hong Kong scholars to share their latest research on the future development of Hong Kong and Shanghai, an international conference ‘Converging at Expo 2010: Comparing Shanghai and Hong Kong - developmental positioning and competitive strength’ was recently held on the campus of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The conference was co-organized by the International Relations Research Programme of Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, Germany’s Konrad Adenauer Foundation and Hong Kong International Relations Research Association (a member of Roundtable Community). Konrad Adenauer Foundation was also the sponsor of the event.
More than 12 leading scholars and experts in the fields of politics, economics and legal studies presented their works on the comparison between Hong Kong’s and Shanghai’s positioning strategies pertaining to the Shanghai’s World Expo to be held in 2010. Prof. Yeung Yue-man, Research Consultant of the Central Policy Unit, HKSAR Government, delivered his keynote speech on ‘Hong Kong and Shanghai as an International Financial Center’. He analyzed the advantages of Hong Kong and Shanghai as an international financial center and examined both potential difficulties and challenges for the twin cities in the coming decade. Other guest speakers included Prof. Sung Yun-wing, Chairman of the Department of Economics, CUHK; Prof. Chen Xiaojing, Associate Professor of the Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade; Prof. Chang Chak-yan, Former Chairman of the Department of Government and Public Administration, CUHK; Mr. Allen Lee Peng-fei, a senior commentator; Dr. Jian Junbo, Assistant Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Fudan University; Prof. Simon Shen Xuhui, Associate Professor of the Department of Social Sciences, Hong Kong Institute of Education; and Prof. Yu Xingzhong, Associate Professor of the Faculty of Law, CUHK.
There were four panel sessions, namely ‘Developmental positioning of Shanghai and Hong Kong’, ‘Economic cooperation and competition between Shanghai and Hong Kong’, ‘Shanghai’s and Hong Kong’s external relations and assistance to China’s modernization’ and ‘Impacts of the political, administrative and legal systems on Shanghai and Hong Kong’. The panels were held successfully and brought much insight to the participants.
