[date]29 October 2009[/date]
[title]Three Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will confer honorary doctorates on the following three distinguished persons at its Sixty-seventh Congregation to be held on Thursday, 10 December 2009, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and scientific advancement, socio-economic progress, promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of CUHK.
Dr. Song Jian is a distinguished state leader and a world-renowned scientist. He is currently Honorary Chairman of the Governing Board of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Dr. Song has made important contributions to optimum control theory, and technologies for developing missiles and satellites. As a staunch believer in ‘rejuvenating the country through science and education’, he introduced a great number of important projects which have successfully brought about technological and economic advancements to the country. He has received a number of awards both nationally and overseas, including the National Award for Advancements in Science and Technology, PRC and the Albert Einstein Award, the top award presented by the International Association for Mathematical Modeling. Throughout the years, Dr. Song has rendered his valuable advice and encouragement to help CUHK promote research and development in science and technology. The University will confer upon Dr. Song the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his exceptional contributions to the country and to his strong support for CUHK.
Dr. the Honourable Tang Ying-Yen Henry is the Chief Secretary for Administration of the HKSAR. A renowned entrepreneur before he joined the Government, he has been the Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries for three terms, and a member of the Legislative Council for many years. He assumed the posts of Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology, and Financial Secretary in 2002 and 2003 respectively. Since 2007, he has served as the Chief Secretary for Administration. He has also served in many Government committees and public organizations. His remarkable contributions in public service and industry and commerce in Hong Kong have earned him the Grand Bauhinia Medal this year. Dr. Tang has a long association with CUHK. He was the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College and established the ‘Henry Tang Scholarship’. The University will confer upon Dr. Tang the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding and dedicated service to the Hong Kong community, as well as his contributions to the University.
Professor Roger Y. Tsien, an American scientist of Chinese descent and 2008 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry, has made outstanding contributions to the fields of chemistry, cell biology and pharmacology. Currently, he is Professor of Pharmacology and Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry at University of California, San Diego, and is also a member of the Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences in the US, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is an inventor of over 60 patents in the US and his research has significant impacts on treatments for cancer, cardiovascular disease and stroke. The University will confer upon Professor Tsien the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his academic achievements and contribution to humanity.
