[date]27 September 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Receives HK$5 Million from Jessie &amp; George Ho Charitable Foundation to Support Outstanding Students[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is pleased to announce that it has received a donation of HK$5 million from Mr. George Ho, founder of Commercial Radio Hong Kong in the name of ‘The Jessie &amp; George Ho Charitable Foundation’. The donation will be used to establish the ‘Commercial Radio 50th Anniversary Scholarship’ to support CUHK in its efforts to nurture talent and cultivate a sense of commitment to the community.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University, said, ‘I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Mr. Ho for this generous donation. This donation bears great significance to CUHK and will further support our endeavours in the recruitment of outstanding local, mainland and international students, especially those from remote regions on the mainland.’
Since 1998, CUHK has been recruiting outstanding mainland undergraduate students. Starting from the 2005–06 student intake, the University has been taking part in the National Unified Universities and Colleges Entrance Examination System (the National System), extending its reach from Beijing and Shanghai to 25 provinces and municipalities at present, including areas such as Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Yunnan and Guizhou. This year, a total of 260 mainland undergraduates were recruited. Through the National System, CUHK will continue to extend its recruitment activities to remote regions on the mainland, providing every top mainland student with the opportunity to receive quality education at the University. This will deepen the understanding by Hong Kong students of their motherland, and expand their vision with more academic and cultural exchanges among students at CUHK.
Mr. George Ho and Mrs. Jessie Ho were known for their active participation in charitable activities. The late Mrs. Jessie Ho volunteered for the Hong Kong Red Cross for over 30 years and established a scholarship in support of local education development.
Established in 2006, The Jessie &amp; George Ho Charitable Foundation has contributed significantly to various charitable bodies and projects, including The Community Chest, the Sowers Action in its Sichuan reconstruction projects and the building of Project Hope schools, as well as the Programme of Happiness in providing assistance to mainland families with financial difficulties.
