[date]1 November 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Students Accomplish Global Internship Programme Participating Countries Spanning over USA, Canada, Europe, Australia, Asia and the Mainland[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a certificate presentation ceremony last week to award a total of 181 students for their completion of internship offered by the Global Internship Programme. The Global Internship Programme, organized by the Office of Student Affairs, has been developed to provide students with a diversity of internship and cultural exchange opportunities since 1997.
With the generous sponsorship of The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the CUHK Caring Alumni Fund, Mr. Cheung Kung-hay, Mr. Yeung Ming-biu, Mr. David York, On Power Management Limited, Citibank and China Construction Bank (Asia) Corporation Limited, the programme provided opportunities to 181 students to have summer internships ranging from four to 21 weeks in major cities in Mainland China and overseas countries. Among them, 118 students interned at various national, Hong Kong-funded and multi-national enterprises in Beijing, Shanghai, Dalian, Shenyang, Chengdu, Fuzhou, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, while the remaining 63 students received their internship training in Melbourne, Sydney, Toronto, Vancouver, Berlin, Dublin, Seoul, Singapore, London, Paris and New York. This year, five new internship cities, namely Fuzhou, Shenyang, Seoul, Singapore and Berlin are added in the internship network.
In addition, companies from a wide spectrum of industries including medical services, logistics, property management consultancy and agency services, accountancy, auditing, banking, energy, information technology, insurance, marketing, media, telecommunications, tourism, trading and promotion, etc., have kindly offered invaluable internship opportunities to CUHK students.
‘The University stresses the importance of all-round development and global perspective of our students and graduates. Students actively engage in a balanced programme of academic and non-academic development,’ said Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Michael Hui at the ceremony. ‘It is the goal of the University that non-formal education contributes to students’ overall quality and competitiveness. Needless to say, internship experience is considered one of the most beneficial and practical parts of non-formal education.’
The ceremony received warm response from many partner organizations. Representatives of governmental units of Beijing and Shanghai, the Liaison Office of The Central People’s Government in the HKSAR and a number of internship organizations joined the ceremony to show their support.
