[date]11 September 2009[/date]
[title]Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng Succeeds 
Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng as Chairman of the Council of
The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announces that Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng, Chairman of the University Council, will retire upon the expiry of his present term of office on 23 October 2009. On the nomination of CUHK’s Council, the Chancellor of the University has appointed Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, a member of CUHK’s Council, as the next Chairman of the University Council with effect from 24 October 2009.
Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng has played a pivotal role in the development of CUHK since he became Council Chairman in 2003 and has worked closely with two Vice-Chancellors of the University, namely Professor Ambrose Y. C. King and Professor Lawrence J. Lau. With his strong encouragement, Professor Lawrence Lau and members of the senior management team formulated the University’s 10-year Strategic Plan, which was adopted by the Council in January 2006 and serves to facilitate the comprehensive development of the University and paves the way for it to further its role as a research and education hub of Asia.
Under Dr. Edgar Cheng’s able leadership, CUHK has become a preferred institution for students from Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas. The outstanding performance of CUHK students is widely recognized and the teaching and learning of CUHK has been commended by the Quality Assurance Council of the University Grants Committee (UGC). Thanks to Dr. Cheng’s unfailing support, five new colleges have been established, enabling the University to accommodate the increase in undergraduate enrolment in 2012, further enhancing the unique collegiate system of CUHK. He has also led the Council to review and enhance the University’s governance structure by developing a system for the search and appointment of full-time faculty deans and reorganizing the Senate and the Council under the ‘fit for purpose’ review. With his effort and support, the University established the Steering Committee on Campus Master Planning to lay down a blueprint for the sustainable development of the University up to 2021 and beyond.
During the past six years, Dr. Edgar Cheng has led CUHK to achieve a number of significant milestones, including the establishment of the Faculty of Law, acquisition of teaching centres in town, establishment of the Shenzhen Research Institute, opening of the teaching hotel, and development of additional campus space in Area 39. With Dr. Cheng's strong support, CUHK was able to raise over 3 billion dollars of donations, including matching funds from UGC. During his term of chairmanship, he has maintained good and effective communication with the staff, students and alumni of CUHK.
Dr. Edgar Cheng said, ‘It has been a privilege and an honour for me to serve as Council Chairman in the past six years. My sincere thanks to all the Council members, especially to both Vice-Chancellors, Professors Ambrose King and Lawrence Lau, for their support and valuable advice over the years.’
Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng is an outstanding alumnus of CUHK and its New Asia College and has been serving as a member of the Council of CUHK and of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College. Throughout the years, Dr. Cheng has kept close ties with his alma mater and made significant contributions to the excellence of the University. Dr. Vincent Cheng has paid special attention to the development of higher education and school education in Hong Kong. He served on the Councils of The Hong Kong Institute of Education, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, St. Stephen’s Girls’ College, and was the Council Chairman of Hang Seng School of Commerce. His wisdom and rich experience will greatly benefit CUHK’s further development.
Dr. Cheng feels proud and honoured to be appointed as Chairman of the University Council, ‘Following the footsteps of the five outstanding former Chairmen, I will continue to carry out the mission of the University and lead the University to build on its solid foundation to achieve further success.’
Widely-recognized as an eminent leader in the banking and financial sector, Dr. Cheng is currently Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. He is the first Hong Kong Chinese to take up the position. Dr. Cheng currently serves as a member of the National Committee of the 11th Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, Vice Chairman of the China Banking Association, and Chairman of the Executive Committee of The Community Chest. He also has abundant experience in the formulation of public and social policies, having been a member of the Legislative Council, the Executive Council, and many key government committees. He was also seconded to the Hong Kong Government’s Central Policy Unit and served as an adviser to the government.
Dr. Cheng has received numerous awards for his distinguished community service, including the Gold Bauhinia Star awarded by the Government of the HKSAR. He was also conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, and an Honorary Fellowship by CUHK, in recognition of his significant contributions.
Dr. Cheng enjoys excellent connections and a high reputation in Hong Kong, mainland China and the international arena. The University looks forward to Dr. Cheng’s leadership as it continues to scale new heights of excellence.
