[date]20 October 2009[/date]
[title]Renowned Sociologist Raewyn Connell to Lecture at CUHK on 
Sexuality and Gender Equality[/title]
Renowned sociologist Professor Raewyn Connell of the University of Sydney will visit Hong Kong as a visiting scholar to participate in The Public Lecture Series on Gender Studies 2009, organized by the Gender Studies Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and sponsored by the Lee Hysan Foundation. Three lectures of the Series were held earlier with enthusiastic responses.
Professor Connell will give two public lectures during her stay in Hong Kong. Members of the public are welcome to join by registering online at http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/gender/publiclecture.htm. In the first lecture entitled ‘Gender and Sexuality in the New Global Capitalism: Are We Heading for Another Feudal Age?’, Professor Connell will challenge how new gender regimes, especially new forms of exploitation of women, have emerged in different parts of the world under globalization.
The second lecture, titled ‘The Role of Men and Boys in Achieving Gender Equality’, will discuss how, contrary to the common assumption, men and masculinities are important in gender reform and achieving gender equality.
Apart from the two public lectures, Professor Connell will also hold a postgraduate seminar on the methods in researching corporate masculinities, and a roundtable session for exchange with faculty on the production of gender knowledge in the global periphery.
Professor Connell is a renowned sociologist and has researched extensively in areas including gender studies, education, health care and social politics. Her books Masculinities (1995) and Gender (2002) are widely adopted as textbooks in universities worldwide, and have been translated into Chinese. Her latest book, Southern Theory: The Global Dynamics of Knowledge in Social Science (2007) has been awarded the Stephen Crook Memorial Prize for the best book in Australian sociology in 2005-2007. She was also an advisor to United Nations (UN) agencies on questions about men and gender, and has helped write a policy document adopted by the UN in 2004 on how men and boys can be involved in achieving gender equality. She is currently University Professor at the University of Sydney.
For enquiries regarding the public lectures, please call 2696-1026 or e-mail genderstudiesPLS@cuhk.edu.hk. The postgraduate seminar and roundtable session are only open to postgraduate students and academics respectively. Online registration is required.
Details of events:
Public Lecture (1): Gender and Sexuality in the New Global Capitalism: Are We Heading for Another Feudal Age?
Date: 23 October 2009 (Friday)
Time: 3:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m.
Venue: Lecture Theatre 3, Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College, CUHK
Language: English (Discussion in English and Cantonese)
Public Lecture (2): The Role of Men and Boys in Achieving Gender Equality
Date: 28 October 2009 (Wednesday)
Time: 7:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.
Venue: Auditorium, 1/F, Duke of Windsor Social Service Building, 15 Hennessey Road, Wanchai, HK
Language: English (Discussion in English and Cantonese)
Postgraduate Seminar: Researching Corporate Masculinities: A Discussion of Method
Date: 22 October 2009 (Thursday)
Time: 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 noon
Venue: Room 422, Conference Room, Sino Building, CUHK
Language: English
Faculty Roundtable: Southern Theory and the Critique of Gender
Date: 29 October 2009 (Thursday)
Time: 4:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m.
Venue: Room 422, Conference Room, Sino Building, CUHK
Language: English
