[date]30 November 2009[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Kuwait-Asia University Partner to Establish Business School in Kuwait to Train Cross-Regional Business Talents[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) signs a partnership today with Kuwait-Asia University (KAU) to establish the KAU Business School in Kuwait. CUHK will involve in setting up the school from scratch and give advice on the long-term development strategy, curriculum and program design as well as high-level management of the school.
This innovative partnership will, for the first time, synergize the expertise on both Asia (China) and Middle East to nurture top business talents for the keys to success in business collaborations between these two regions, which cover most of the high potential emerging markets in terms of economic growth.
Speaking at the MOU Signing Ceremony of the partnership, Prof Ali Altarrah, Executive Committee Member of the KAU Business School said business potential between the Middle East and Asia triggers the idea for the partnership, “Asia and the Middle East are coming closer together as companies from both regions are engaging in more and more business collaborations. KAU strives to participate effectively in the changing economy and to develop a better understanding of Asian cultures. As a famous Chinese proverb says, ‘Tell me and I’ll forget’; show me and I may remember; involve me and I’ll understand’. KAU will strive to provide people with a modern ‘Silk Road’, which will link the Middle East and Asia through an educational route that will bring success to both great cultures.”
Leveraging on both partners’ in-depth knowledge on the cultures, societies and business systems of the Middle East and Asia, as well as their extensive network across the two regions, the KAU Business School will provide an excellent platform for networking, business partnerships and scholarly exchanges among entrepreneurs, business executives and academics around the globe.
Prof. T.J. Wong, Dean, Faculty of Business Administration of CUHK, extended his gratitude to their Kuwait Partner for involving the university in this meaningful deed, “This is an extraordinary recognition to the university’s efforts in delivering top-notch business education over the years. We are the first university in Hong Kong to lead the way of sharing the excellence of business education by taking such a significant role to set up a new business school with our overseas counterpart from scratch. The partnership is also an unparalleled opportunity for our Business Faculty to actualize its vision of nurturing global business leaders with China insights and Chinese business leaders with global mindsets.”
The KAU Business School, which is expected to formally launch in five years time, will first focus on the development of top-notch EMBA, MBA and executive training programs with specialization in Health Management, Banking and Finance. The School will also actively identify and appoint internationally renowned academics to be endowed Chair professors to teach in the programs and carry out high quality research in business, finance and economics in emerging markets of Asia and the Middle East. Both partners are also in the process to seek collaboration with renowned institutions in America and Europe to form tri-partnership for offering joint executive programs in a multi-cultural context.
