[date]29 March 2009[/date]
[title]The Chinese University and IBM to Implement New Student Information System[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and IBM today announced an agreement to roll out a new student information system to address the changing requirements leading up to 2012, when Hong Kong’s new 3+3+4 Education Reform will take effect in tertiary education. The system will enable CUHK to efficiently manage student-related data caused by an increase in the number of undergraduate students, and better cater to students’ needs throughout their years of study and after their graduation.
Under the agreement signed in December 2008, IBM Global Business Services will implement Chinese University Student Information System (CUSIS) which will be used to manage the entire student lifecycle and address regulatory compliance and reporting requirements while driving operational efficiency. IBM will also provide CUHK with change management services to ensure smooth and successful adoption of the system by users and integration with CUHK’s existing IT application systems and infrastructure.
“Today’s students are more global and mobile in nature. The new system will allow them to access university services anytime, anywhere and at their own pace, thus enhancing services as well as their learning experience,” said Professor Pak-Chung Ching, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK. “In addition, the system will help us develop a strong link between the University, students and alumni. CUHK and IBM will work in close collaboration to develop this brand new system.”
CUSIS will be built on Oracle PeopleSoft Enterprise Campus Solutions, an ERP-based student administration management system. Leveraging on the Solutions’ Student Administration, Gradebook, Contributor Relations, Campus Self-Service, and Enterprise Portal modules, CUSIS will allow users to manage student admission and registration, course selection and enrollment, assessment and examination records, student financial and alumni records, and to provide students with self-service capabilities to meet CUHK’s growing requirements.
“CUHK is a long-time partner of IBM and shares the same vision with us in helping our society progress through higher education,” said Gautam Bardoloi, Partner, Growth Markets Leader, Asset Management Services, IBM Global Business Services. “We are excited about extending our close relationship with CUHK to deliver solutions that will help advance Hong Kong’s education system, and confident that the new system will address CUHK’s current and future needs.”
IBM has been CUHK’s partner since 1960s, and has deep insight and extensive experience in providing solutions to leading institutions around the world.
About The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Founded in 1963, CUHK is a forward-looking comprehensive research university with a global vision and a mission to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West. Please visit CUHK website at: www.cuhk.edu.hk
About IBM
For more information about IBM Hong Kong, go to: www.ibm.com/hk
