[date]22 March 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Hosts International Conference on China’s Diplomacy in the 21st Century[/title]
In order to investigate a broad range of issues concerning the peaceful rise of China and its implications in China’s diplomacy, the International Relations Research Programme, Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies and the Asia-Africa Development Research Institute, Development Research Centre of the State Council will jointly organize an international conference titled “China’s Diplomacy in the 21st Century – A New Perspective”. This conference is supported by the Central Policy Unit, Hong Kong Special Administrative Government; Hong Kong International Relations Research Association, Roundtable Community; CUHK Master of Global Political Economy; Hong Kong Industry Commerce and Professional Association; Centre of International Relations, Hong Kong Policy Research Institute; Mingpao; RTHK; Yazhouzhoukan; Yew Chung Community College and Fairtaste.
The conference will be held on 26 March (Thursday) at Cho Yiu Hall, CUHK. 30 experts and scholars from the mainland and Hong Kong will present their latest researches and insights during the one-day programme. Five panels will be conducted, including:
(1) Rise/Development: The Theory and Practice of Peaceful Development;
(2) Rooted in Asia: China’s Diplomacy in East Asian and South Asian Region;
(3) Energy Politics: The International Relations between China and the Oil-exporting Countries;
(4) Regional Integration: The Interactions between China and Regional Organizations; and
(5) Bottom-up Approach: The Idea of “Pan-China” Region and Civil Diplomacy in China
Prof. Lau Siu-kai, Head of the Central Policy Unit; Prof. Wang Yu-sheng, Former Principle Advisor for the Joint Committee of Chinese Companies in APEC; and Prof. Ming Chan, Visiting Fellow of the Centre of East Asian Studies, Stanford University, will speak at the conference.
Public participation in the conference is welcome. Please visit the website of the Conference for the programme rundown: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkiaps/irrp/activities/academicc.html. For enquiries and registration, please contact Mr. Wilson Chan at (852) 2696-1353 or email to wilson_chan@cuhk.edu.hk.
