[date]2 April 2009[/date]
[title]Citibank University Banking Course 2008 – 2009 Graduation Ceremony[/title]
Citibank and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today announced the successful completion of Citibank University Banking Course 2008-2009. Following a series of intensive lectures, four students with outstanding performance were awarded “Outstanding Achievement Award”, winning internship opportunities at one of Citibank’s Asia Pacific offices this summer.
At the graduation ceremony, Mr. Weber Lo, Chief Executive Office &amp; Country Business Manager, Citibank Global Consumer Group, Hong Kong, said, “In view of the new challenges to be faced by our next generation, Citibank, as a responsible corporate citizen, commits to nurturing more competent leaders with all-rounded skills. Therefore, we are glad to extend this extraordinary program to all CUHK students this year, providing them with finance-related knowledge and essential skill sets in the workplace. We are particularly excited, for the first time, to offer both local and overseas internship opportunities to selected students in recognition of their hard work in this program. I am confident that they will widen their local and international horizons in banking and culture.”
In this five-month program, 50 students were admitted to attend 15 classroom lectures covering a wide spectrum of retail banking business, a visit to a Citibank branch, a mid-term test and a final project. The final project required students to develop a new banking product for a specific customer segment that would enhance the bank’s revenue in the continued market downturn. All qualified students were awarded certificates upon successful completion of the course.
Four students were awarded the “Outstanding Achievement Award”, based on their attendance, class participation, mid-term test results and scores of their final group project. They are (in alphabetical order):
‧ Chan Chi Ho Brian
‧ Fang Xiang Sheang
‧ Saur Eva-Maria Heidrun
‧ To Kwok Wai Kent
The four outstanding students have been awarded internships in Citibank in the Asia Pacific region, where they will have a chance to broaden their horizon and apply their knowledge gained from this program in the banking and finance sector. In addition, students who participated actively in lectures will be given an interview opportunity for internship positions at Citibank Hong Kong this summer.
Prof. Michael K.M. Hui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK, said, “The Chinese University of Hong Kong is committed to offering the best business education to its students. We also treasure partnerships with leading enterprises in providing unique and practical learning experience to our students. My sincere thanks go to the seasoned Citibank professionals who kindly volunteered to teach in various programmes of the Course. Despite their hectic schedule at work, they took the trouble to come to our campus to share with our students their knowledge and insight. Their commitment and contribution to grooming future business leaders are highly appreciated not only by their beneficiaries, the students, but by all of us. In addition, I am very proud of all the participants. They have demonstrated strong commitment throughout their studies and completed the Course with excellent results. My special congratulations go to the four recipients of the ‘Outstanding Achievement Award’ for their excellent performance. I am certain they will excel further upon completion of the internship.”
Citibank University Banking Course was first run in Taiwan in 1998 at the National Taiwan University. Citibank now conducts similar banking courses in several other countries in the Asia Pacific region including mainland China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. In Hong Kong, the program was first launched in the University of Hong Kong in 2004. The program aims to teach students of higher education the fundamentals of finance and banking, as well as to help develop future leaders to understand complex financial issues.

About Citi
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 140 countries. Through its two operating units, Citicorp and Citi Holdings, Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.comor www.citi.com.
Citi Foundation
The Citi Foundation is committed to enhancing economic opportunities for underserved individuals and families in the communities where we work throughout the world. Globally, the Citi Foundation is focusing its giving on Microfinance and Microentrepreneurship, which helps individuals become economically self-sufficient; Small and Growing Businesses, leading to economic expansion and job creation; Education, which prepares young people for personal and professional success; Financial Education, which helps individuals make informed financial decisions; and the Environment with a focus on sustainable enterprises that generate jobs and stimulate economic growth while preserving the environment. Additional information can be found at http://www.citigroupfoundation.com/.
Citi Financial Education Program
Based on the belief that knowledge is your greatest asset, the Citi Financial Education Program is a global, company-wide effort to identify, support and implement initiatives that help give individuals, families and communities the tools needed to make sound financial decisions. Citi's 10-year, US$200 million global commitment is focused in three areas: Personal, Small Business and Institutional Financial Education. Additional information about the Citi Financial Education Program, including Citi Foundation guidelines, links and resources and the Citi Financial Education Program Curriculum and Facilitator's Guide may be found at http://financialeducation.citigroup.com.
