[date]24 May 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Professor Jie Huang Elected IFAC Fellow[/title]
Prof. Jie Huang of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has been elected Fellow of the International Federation of Automatic Control (IFAC) for his ‘contributions in teaching and research on nonlinear control theory and design, and its applications to flight control and guidance, electro-mechanical systems, and neural systems’. This year, nine scholars were conferred worldwide and Prof. Huang is the only one from the Greater China.
Prof. Huang completed his PhD study in Automatic Control at the Johns Hopkins University in 1990 and subsequently held a post-doctoral fellow position there until 1991. In September 1995, he joined the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering at CUHK as professor. He has served as an advisory or guest professor at several universities. He is also a chair professor of the South China University of Technology (SCUT), and Director of the Joint Research Center for Automation Science and Engineering of CUHK and SCUT. He served as Science Advisor to the Leisure and Cultural Services Department of the Hong Kong SAR Government, and Honorary Advisor to the Hong Kong Science Museum. He was elected IEEE fellow in 2004 and received the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship in 2006. He has served in different editorial positions at various international journals. He was also a member of the Board of Governors and Distinguished Lecturer of the IEEE Control Systems Society.
Prof. Huang’s research achievement in nonlinear control theory and design can be widely applied to the flight control of aircrafts, attitude control of spacecrafts and motion control of robots. It can significantly improve the stability and safety of a flying vehicle and the accuracy of robotic motion control.
Founded in 1957, IFAC is an international professional organization consisting of 48 member organizations, including Mainland China and Hong Kong. The IFAC Fellow Award, established in 2005, is given to persons who have made outstanding and extraordinary contributions in the field of interest of IFAC, in the role as an engineer, scientist, technical leader or educator. A total of 85 IFAC fellowships have been awarded worldwide so far, and Prof. Huang is one of the two recipients in Hong Kong.
