[date]9 May 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK’s Nethersole School of Nursing Holds
Workshop on Epidemic Prevention in Schools/Elderly Homes[/title]
In response to the cases of Influenza A (H1N1) reported in Mexico and the United States, the World Health Organization has declared the current situation constitutes a public health emergency of international concern, and considered it a potential pandemic threat around the world. In Hong Kong, upon confirmation of the first case of Influenza A (H1N1) on 1 May, the SAR government has raised the pandemic alert level to ‘emergency’ and urged all people in the territory to keep vigilant against the disease. Hong Kong is a densely populated city. If there is a pandemic outbreak in the community, students and older people would most likely be the high-risk groups of getting infected, in particular those in schools or elderly homes where communicable disease can easily spread through close person-to-person contact. Active epidemic prevention is therefore of top urgency.
In view of the above, The Nethersole School of Nursing at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a Workshop on Epidemic Prevention in Schools/Elderly Homes today (9 May) which aimed to prepare the primary schools, kindergartens, specials schools and elderly homes in Shatin and Tai Po districts to practise appropriate precautions against the spread of Influenza A (H1N1). About 100 front-line staff of the schools and elderly homes joined the workshop. At her welcoming speech at the workshop, Professor Diana Lee, Director of The Nethersole School of Nursing, stressed the importance of epidemic prevention in the community. Through this workshop, she hoped to strengthen the partnership between the School and the community to facilitate the enhancement of community health.
Professors and instructors of The Nethersole School of Nursing were the speakers of the workshop. With their professional knowledge in nursing, the speakers updated the participants on the general information of Influenza A (H1N1), and also introduced effective precautionary measures specifically targeted to the unique needs of schools and elderly homes in epidemic prevention, such as the vital measures to maintain good personal and environmental hygiene. The participants were also divided into the school group and elderly home group for in-depth sharing of their particular concerns in relation to the prevention of Influenza A (H1N1), with speakers to provide professional opinions and suggestions.
The Nethersole School of Nursing of CUHK always reserves no efforts in influenza prevention and the promotion of community health through organizing health education and promotion workshops from time to time. The School hopes that this workshop would help the schools and elderly homes to better prepare themselves against the spread of Influenza A (H1N1) in order to provide the students and older people with a healthy and hygienic learning, residential and living environment and consequently reduce the possibility of getting infected.
