[date]9 March 2009[/date]
[title]The Art of Translation
A workshop on pitfalls in translation by accomplished writers[/title]
The University Library System, Department of English, and Department of Translation of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will jointly organize a workshop on “The Art of Translation” this Friday (13 March) as one of the programmes of the Man Hong Kong International Literary Festival 2009.
In this workshop, Julia Lovell, a lecturer in Chinese history at the University of London, will talk about the pitfalls in translation with Zhu Wen who is a poet, novelist and filmmaker.
Julia Lovell is the author of several books on China including The Great Wall: China Against the World and The Politics of Cultural Capital: China’s Quest for a Nobel Prize in Literature. She has edited and translated in part Lust, Caution, a collection of short stories by Eileen Chang, and her translation of the complete fiction of Lu Xun will be published in 2009. She has also translated several contemporary novels including I Love Dollars by Zhu Wen.
Mr. Zhu’s work has been published in many of China’s most prestigious literary magazines. The first success came in 1995 with the publication of I Love Dollars. The English version, translated by Julia Lovell, was shortlisted for the 2008 Kiriyama Prize. He is also an accomplished screenwriter and director. His directorial debut, Seafood, won the Grand Jury Prize at the 2001 Venice Film Festival, and his second film, South of the Clouds, was awarded the NETPAC Prize at the 2004 Berlin Film Festival.
There will be a book signing session after the workshop.
Date : March 13, 2009 (Friday)
Time : 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Venue : Chung Chi College Library, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Speakers : Julia Lovell, Zhu Wen
Languages : English and Putonghua
Organizer : The Man Hong Kong International Literary Festival
Co-organizers : University Library System, Department of English, and Department of Translation, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Enquiry : 2609-6969
Literary Festival homepage - http://www.festival.org.hk/
