[date]19 April 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK 45th Anniversary Lecture ‘Rhodes Scholars at CUHK’ Successfully Launched[/title]
The Rhodes Scholarship is the oldest and one of the most prestigious international fellowships. Many world leaders and scholars of great significance were awarded the Scholarship in their youth and became Rhodes Scholars, such as Bill Clinton, former President of the United States; Bob Hawke, former Prime Minister of Australia; and Professor A. Michael Spence, Winner of Nobel Prize in Economics in 2001.
Since the launch of the Scholarship in Hong Kong in 1985, 12 graduates of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) have been awarded the Scholarship and furthered their studies at the University of Oxford, making CUHK the local university with the most Rhodes Scholars. These young Scholars have subsequently excelled in a variety of industries ranging from law, banking and finance, to social sciences.
Four Rhodes Scholars from CUHK, namely Mr William Wong Ming-fung, Barrister-at-Law (1994); Mr Jack Wong Chak-kei, Managing Director, Investment Banking, Barclays Capital Asia Limited (1996); Dr Amanda Lee Pui-shan of banking (1998); and Ms Jade Lai Wing-yu, Manager (Research) of Bauhinia Foundation Research Centre (2000), have returned to their alma mater on 16 April for the CUHK 45th Anniversary Lecture – ‘Rhodes Scholars at CUHK’. During the lecture, they spoke on the importance of international perspectives and shared their academic pursuit and experiences in studying at Oxford with over a hundred university and secondary school students. Through face-to-face interactions with outstanding role models, students received first-hand advice on various issues, which broadened their horizons and strengthened their global awareness.
The Rhodes Scholarship was established after the death of Sir Cecil Rhodes in 1902, and was originally allocated to students from the Commonwealth countries, the United States and Germany. Hong Kong was included in the list of countries in 1985. Each year, the Rhodes Scholarship selection committee comprising professors of local universities and renowned persons in society selects one student with excellent academic achievements, outstanding personality, good physical vigour, active participation in community service and strong leadership to be the Scholarship recipient. The selection process is very stringent, requiring applicants to go through several rounds of individual interview and group discussion, and to dine and interact with the committee members. Candidates are also required to be admitted to Oxford University before receiving the Scholarship. Starting from 2007, the Scholarship is sponsored by the Lee Hysan Foundation. The Foundation provides full sponsorship of traveling expenses, school fee, accommodation and living expenses.
