[date]22 June 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Professor as the First Hong Kong Winner of 
IEEE ComSoc Asia-Pacific Outstanding Young Researcher Award[/title]
Prof. Huang Jianwei of the Department of Information Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) received the IEEE ComSoc Asia-Pacific Outstanding Young Researcher Award 2009 of the prestigious IEEE Communications Society (ComSoc), for his strong publication record and active participation in conference activities over the last three years. The presentation ceremony took place on 17 June at Dresden, Germany. The award was established in 2001 with the aim of honouring capable researchers aged 35 or below. This year, six out of 34 applicants from various countries in the Asia-Pacific region were awarded. Prof. Huang is the only winner from Hong Kong among the 19 individuals who have received the award so far.
Prof. Huang obtained his B.S. in Radio Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing in 2000, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Northwestern University in Evanston, USA in 2003 and 2005 respectively. He joined CUHK in 2007 after working at Princeton University as a Post-doctoral Research Associate for two years. He is currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Information Engineering. Prof. Huang conducts research in the area of nonlinear optimization and game theoretical analysis of communication networks, with a focus on broadband communication networks, network economics, and cognitive radio networks. He has participated in various research projects on wireless communication networks sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), Motorola USA, and AT&amp;T USA.
Prof. Huang has published almost 50 papers in leading international journals and conferences, and two book chapters on Game Theory and Optimization Theory. He has served in different editorial positions, including as Associate Editor of theInternational Journal of Computer and Electrical Engineering (2007-2010), and the Lead Guest Editor of several journals including theIEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications.
