[date]10 March 2009[/date]
[title]Inaugural graduation class of the Credit Suisse - The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Professional Diploma in Global Finance[/title]
The 22 high-performing graduates of the inaugural 2007-08 class come from all divisions at Credit Suisse, spanning three locations - Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan, representing a diverse profile of business and support functions.
The graduation ceremony was held on Thursday, February 19, 2009 at the Suntec Singapore International Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre. It was officiated by Kai Nargolwala, CEO for Asia Pacific, Credit Suisse; Eoin O’Shea, COO for Asia Pacific, Credit Suisse; Patsy Doerr, Head of Business School Asia Pacific Credit Suisse; Professor Michael Hui, Pro-Vice Chancellor of CUHK and Professor Leslie Young, Executive Director, The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business, CUHK.
The Credit Suisse-The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Professional Diploma in Global Finance was launched in October 2007. The 15 month-long program is aimed at high potential Credit Suisse employees in the Asia Pacific region. The program is exclusive to the Bank and is tailor made to ensure it is highly relevant to the participants’ practical needs.
The Diploma combines financial knowledge, industry trends, strategic management and leadership skills and is taught by both CUHK and Credit Suisse. Throughout the 15 months, candidates also work on major learning group projects which are presented to Credit Suisse senior management at the end of the program with the aim that the research findings can be put to practical use.
The 2008-09 class kicked off last October with even wider employee participation with 32 participants spanning five locations including Australia, Hong Kong, India, Singapore and Japan.
The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business (APIB) was established in 1990 as the external arm of the Faculty of Business Administration of CUHK to provide high-quality executive education, research and consultancy services to corporations in Hong Kong and the Asia-Pacific region. APIB’s mission is to assist managers and companies in meeting buisness challenges. Surplus from these activities is used to support research and academic enrichment programmes in the Faculty. In the past decade, thousands of professional and managers in public and private organisations in the region have benefited from APIB’s executive and diploma programmes. For further information about APIB, please visit www.cuhk.edu.hk/apib.
Credit Suisse 
As one of the world's leading banks, Credit Suisse provides its clients with private banking, investment banking and asset management services worldwide. Credit Suisse offers advisory services, comprehensive solutions and innovative products to companies, institutional clients and high-net-worth private clients globally, as well as retail clients in Switzerland. Credit Suisse is active in over 50 countries and employs approximately 47,800 people. Credit Suisse is comprised of a number of legal entities around the world and is headquartered in Zurich. The registered shares (CSGN) of Credit Suisse's parent company, Credit Suisse Group AG, are listed in Switzerland and, in the form of American Depositary Shares (CS), in New York. Further information about Credit Suisse can be found at www.credit-suisse.com.
