[date]30 March 2009[/date]
[title]The CUHK Green Campus Conferred the Silver Award of the 2008 Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence[/title]
In recognition of its comprehensive and excellent environmental management to create a green campus, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has been conferred the silver award of the 2008 Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) Sectoral Awards under the category of Public Sector and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). No gold prize was awarded under this category. A total of 366 entries competed for the Sectoral Awards in the 2008 HKAEE. CUHK came to the fore as the only award winner among tertiary institutions.
Prof. Chu Lee-man, chairman of the Committee on Campus Environment, said, ‘An environmentally sustainable campus has been CUHK’s priority since its founding 45 years ago. Generations of students and staff have cultivated our 134-hectare campus with care to make it an enclave of lush vegetation and lively ecology. To implement comprehensive environmental management on such a vast campus has not been an easy job. The award recognizes the University’s excellence in this aspect, as reflected by its comprehensive green initiatives on all fronts, and the realization of sustainable development concepts such as waste management, energy efficiency, ecological preservation, resource conservation, and environmental education.
‘I would like to thank each and every CUHK members who have contributed to maintaining a sustainable green campus, in particular the environmental protection committees of the Colleges, student organizations, as well as various administrative units. The University will continue its endeavours in launching innovative environmental programmes and a wide range of environmental initiatives for the sustainable development of our campus.’
Competitors of HKAEE were subject to three rounds of stringent assessment. The adjudicating panel screened all reports on environmental issues, reviewed policies and measures submitted by the participating organizations, and met with the management and staff to conduct field assessment on short-listed participants before selecting the winners. Attention was paid to ‘green leadership’, ‘programmes and performance’, and ‘partner synergy’.
In fulfilling the University’s role in green leadership, an overall framework was drawn for the long-term protection and enhancement of our unique and harmonious campus environment since its early stage of development in the 1960s. Over the years, a number of environmental sustainability initiatives have been implemented. CUHK is the first local university to conduct an environmental audit. In 2000, a campus environmental protection plan was formulated with an effective management framework, defining clear goals and guidelines for waste reduction, energy and ecology conservation. A number of task forces and committees were set up to improve environmental management systems.
In terms of programmes and performance, CUHK has introduced numerous environmental protection measures such as the use of renewable energy, eco-materials in construction, and implementation of tree conservation policies for the development of a sustainable campus, Its outstanding achievement in energy conservation led to the gold award, the highest honour in the Schools (Tertiary) Category of the First Hong Kong Energy Efficiency Awards organized by the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department in 2006.
CUHK makes every endeavour to promote environmental education and arouse green awareness on campus and within the community through synergy collaboration. The Green Campus website (http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/greencampus/) and the informative publication Sustainable Campus provide platforms for sharing of environmental issues on development, policy and measures. Promotional activities like Environmental Week, Walking for Health Campaign, Energy Saving Competition are organized regularly. Students, staff and alumni participated in the CUHK Community Afforestation Scheme which aimed at planting over 10,000 tree seedlings at Grassy Hill, Tai Po.
The 2008 HKAEE is jointly organized by the Environmental Campaign Committee, Environmental Protection Department and other organizations. A merger and extension of three schemes, namely, the Hong Kong Eco-Business Awards, the Wastewi$e Scheme and the Hong Kong Energy Efficiency Awards, it aims to optimize the use of resources and serve as a prestigious awards scheme to cover a wider scope of sectors in Hong Kong, to promote environmental awareness within the community, and to recognize organizations which have contributed to environmental protection.
