[date]24 April 2009[/date]
[title]Asia’s First State-of-the-Art Computer Assisted Orthopaedics Laboratory 
Marks the 10th Anniversary of CUHK Orthopaedic Learning Centre[/title]
The state-of-the-art Computer Assisted Orthopaedics (CAOS) Laboratory was inaugurated today (24 April) on the 10th anniversary of the Orthopaedic Learning Centre at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).
The laboratory enables orthopaedic surgeons from Hong Kong and worldwide to plan, simulate and execute difficult surgical operations. It will bring great benefits to the patients, particularly those who will undergo surgical operations in which precision is critical to the success of the surgery.
CUHK plays a leading role in CAOS internationally, particularly with reference to fracture fixation, bone tumors and complex pelvic and extremity reconstructions. The Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology at CUHK has performed more than 1,000 computer assisted operations and organized 23 training courses for surgeons around the globe. Academics at the department hold leading positions in the Asian &amp; International Societies for CAOS and have hosted many international CAOS meetings in Hong Kong. Their contributions have led to the development of advanced CAOS softwares and unique work-flow techniques that allow wider applications of this cutting-edge technology in bone surgery. The department has also won awards at the International Society of Limb Salvage meeting in Germany in September 2007, and at the International Society for CAOS meeting in Hong Kong in June 2008.
The achievements and developments in CAOS will not be possible without the solid foundation laid by CUHK’s Orthopaedic Learning Centre. Ever since its establishment in 1999, the Orthopaedic Learning Centre has provided the global orthopaedic community with top quality education and training programmes. The backbone of this Centre is the state-of-the-art skills training facilities where difficult operative techniques can be practiced to perfection and complex bone surgeries simulated or executed in saw-bone models. The Centre has obtained ISO-9001 certification to prove its caliber and total quality management capacity. To date, the Orthopaedic Learning Centre has organized 152 training courses and provided learning opportunities for 5,833 orthopaedic surgeons all over the world. The Orthopaedic Learning Centre is a testimony of Hong Kong’s economic edge in educational services as stipulated by the Chief Executive and the Task Force on Economic Challenge of the HKSAR Government. With the solid track record in orthopaedics training, the increased integration with the mainland and close working partnership with the industry, the Orthopaedic Learning Centre will be able to scale new heights in the next decade.
