[date]29 June 2009[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 
66th Congregation for Conferment of Degrees [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) conferred honorary doctorates on the following three distinguished persons at its Sixty-sixth Congregation today (29 June), in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of CUHK. Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng, Chairman of the University Council, presided at the Congregation.
Prof. PAI Hsien-yung, Kenneth is a world renowned writer, playwright and producer of Kunqu. His many highly acclaimed novels were translated into different languages and adapted for film, television and the stage. In 1960, he founded the magazine Modern Literature, which served both catalytic and pioneering functions, in a very important way, in the development of Taiwan literature. In recent years, Prof. Pai devoted himself to promoting Kunqu to the world. He created The Young Lovers’ Edition of The Peony Pavilion, which has been performed over a hundred times around the world including in Taiwan, Hong Kong, mainland China, the USA and the United Kingdom. In 2003, his achievements were crowned with the Seventh National Literature Award in Taiwan. Prof. Pai has had a long and fruitful collaboration with CUHK. He was an adjudicator of a literary award of the Faculty of Arts and a guest speaker at literary workshops. The University conferred upon Prof. Pai the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa, in recognition of his exceptional achievements in the world literary arena as well as his unfailing support to the University.
Prof. Alison F Richardbecame the 344th Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge in 2003, where her talent for drawing people together has inspired and united the University and its 31 Colleges. She is the first woman to hold the position full-time. She has led significant advances within the University in developing strategic interdisciplinary academic initiatives, and in international strategy, the organisation of graduate education, and institutional governance. Under her leadership, Cambridge has also made significant strides in several policy areas including intellectual property, salaries and compensation, and student access. Her consensus-building approach underpins the success of Cambridge’s 800th Anniversary Campaign to raise ￡1 billion to strengthen and diversify the financial underpinnings of collegiate Cambridge.
A distinguished anthropologist, she has had a close involvement with Madagascar since 1977 and is active in forest conservation and the development of social and economic opportunities there. Prof. Richard has visited CUHK on many occasions and has served as an external expert of the University. The University conferred upon Prof. Richard the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of her distinguished academic achievements and educational leadership, and her prominent contributions to the enhancement of collaborations between the two universities.
Dr. WU Po-ko, Michael, a professional engineer, a philanthropic entrepreneur and former Chairman of Wing Lung Bank, is currently the Secretary of Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation. Apart from his tremendous contributions to the economic and financial development in Hong Kong, he has also held various public offices both in Hong Kong and Canada. He was the Treasurer of the Council and Court of Hong Kong Baptist University, and he also sat on the Court of Lingnan University and served as a member of the Board of Inland Revenue of the Hong Kong Government. He actively ploughs back to the community and has provided financial assistance to educational institutions, hospitals and social service organizations in Hong Kong and mainland China. Dr. Wu Po-ko Michael, his father Dr. Wu Yee-sun and other members of the Wu family have been committed to the development of CUHK and other local tertiary institutions. In 2007, the Foundation pledged another major donation to CUHK for the establishment of Wu Yee Sun College on campus. The University conferred upon Dr. Wu the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to education and the community, and his support for the University.