[date]14 June 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Chinese Academy of Sciences Academician
Professor Xu Guanhua 
as Wei Lun Research Professor of Space and Earth Sciences[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Professor Xu Guanhua, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and former Minister of Science and Technology of PRC, as Wei Lun Research Professor of Space and Earth Sciences, Institute of Space and Earth Information Science (ISEIS) for three years, effective 7 May 2008. As an expert in resources remote sensing and geographical information system, Professor Xu’s appointment will further enhance the development of ISEIS in areas such as research, education and training, and technology development, strengthening its leading position in remote sensing. He has recently started his first residential service in late April.
Professor Xu was born in Shanghai in 1941. He was a member of the 16th CPC Central Committee, a Standing Committee Member of the 11th Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, and Chairman of the Committee of Education, Science, Culture, Health and Sports of PRC. During 1979–81, Professor Xu took advanced studies on remote sensing science at Stockholm University, Sweden. He had then served as Director of the Chinese Academy of Forestry, Director of the Institute of Remote Sensing Applications of CAS, Vice President of CAS, Vice Minister and Deputy Secretary of the Leading Party Group of the State Science and Technology Commission, Director of the Evaluation Committee for State Science and Technology Awards, Director of the Academic Committee of the State Key Laboratory for Resources and Environment Information System, Director of the Academic Committee of the State Key Laboratory for Remote Sensing and Aerial Survey, and Chief Editor of Remote Sensing Journal. Professor Xu is also an academician of the Academy of Sciences for the Third World, a foreign academician of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, and an academician of the International Academy of Space Navigation Sciences.
During 2005-08, Professor Xu served as Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Engineering, CUHK. He has been supportive to ISEIS by serving as its Visiting Professor in 2008. He is also a prolific writer and has published many books and over 60 essays. Many of his research projects received important honours, such as first-class and second-class technological progress awards from the Chinese Academy of Forestry, second-class technological progress award from the CAS, and three third-class awards of the State Scientific and Technological Progress Award.
