[date]26 February 2009[/date]
[title]Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow Programme 2008/09
Chung Chi College
The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff members as well as students, the Visiting Fellow Programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong. In the past 25 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields, namely, Professor C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the Mainland; and Professor Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University, and many others were invited to visit the College for several weeks as the College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows.
This year, Chung Chi College is very honoured to have invited Professor Cheuk-Yiu Ng from the University of California (UC), Davis in USA to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2008/09. Professor Ng is a Chung Chi graduate of Chemistry in 1971. He has been a Distinguished Professor of the Department of Chemistry, UC Davis, since 2001. During the two-week visit from 22 February to 7 March 2009, Professor Ng will be meeting College staff in a series of activities including the Annual Education Conference, College Life Luncheon Talk, College Assembly and Tolo Nocturne, etc.
The Annual Education Conference of Chung Chi College to be held at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, 28 February 2009 in C.K. Tse Room of the College is the highlight among activities of Professor Ng’s visit to Chung Chi College. Professor Ng will address on the theme “Basic Science Research: Roles in Contemporary Society” together with two other guest speakers, namely, Professor Roland T. Chin, the Deputy to the President of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and Chairman of the Research Grants Council, University Grants Committee; as well as Ms. Anna Lee, Acting Chief Curriculum Development Officer (Science Education), Curriculum Development Institute, Education Bureau. Professor Dennis Ng, the University Dean of Students and Professor from the University’s Chemistry Department will be the moderator of the Conference. The Conference will be conducted in English and Cantonese, with simultaneous interpretation in English provided. The event is also open to the public. For more details, please visit the website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/.
