[date]21 May 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK Celebrates the 60th Anniversary of Philosophy Department and Centenary of Professor Tang Chun-I[/title]
To celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Department of Philosophy at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the centenary of Professor Tang Chun-I, founding chairman and the first Chair Professor of the Department, a statue of Professor Tang was inaugurated on the CUHK campus yesterday (20 May). The ceremony was officiated by Professor Lawrence J. Lau, CUHK Vice-Chancellor; Professor Lao Sze-kwang, Professor Emeritus of the Department of Philosophy, CUHK, and Academician of Academia Sinica (Taiwan); Professor Donald Munro, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy and Chinese, University of Michigan; Mr. Wang Kang, representative of the Tang’s family; Mr. Chu Tat-shing, the sculptor; Professor Lau Kwok-keung, Chairman of the CUHK Philosophy Alumni Association; Professor Wong Nai-ching, Head of New Asia College and CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor; Professor Cheung Chan-fai, Chairman of the Philosophy Department; and Professor Fok Tou-hui, Head of The Dharmasthiti College of Cultural Studies. About 200 CUHK alumni and distinguished guests attended the ceremony to pay tribute to Professor Tang.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau thanked the alumni for their generous donation that made the inauguration of the statue possible. He said, ‘Professor Tang’s statue will stand on the University campus from now on. His steadfast determination in promoting Chinese culture will continue to enlighten the future generations of the campus community.’
The 2-metre bronze statue of Professor Tang was erected on the campus of New Asia College. A masterpiece by the famous sculptor Mr. Chu Tat-shing, the statue has become an icon of New Asia College representing Professor Tang’s lifelong pursuit of revitalizing Chinese culture. The statue comes with an epigraph composed by Professor Yu Ying-shih, former Head of New Asia College, and calligraphed by Professor Li Yun-woon, former Chairman of the Department of Fine Arts, CUHK.
The Department is also hosting a series of celebratory activities with the joint effort of colleagues, alumni and friends. ‘New Directions in Chinese Philosophy: International Conference Celebrating the 60th Anniversary of the Department of Philosophy, CUHK, the Centenary of Tang Chun-I, and the 60th Anniversary of New Asia College’ is being held from 18 to 21 May at Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College, CUHK. Over 70 scholars from four corners of the world attended the conference, sharing their thoughts on the directions and methodology of the study of Chinese philosophy. The plenary speakers are renowned scholars in the field: Professor Roger T. Ames, Professor Fok Tou-hui, Professor Ambrose King, Professor Lao Sze-kwang, Professor Liu Shu-hsien, Professor Donald Munro, Professor Henry Rosemont, and Professor Shun Kwong-loi.
At the same time, an exhibition on Professor Tang’s life and works, ‘Guardian of the Spiritual Value of Chinese Culture: Tang Chun-I Centenary Exhibition’, is running from 18 May through 8 June at the New Asia College Library. A ‘Tang Chun-I Chinese Philosophy Scholarship’ has been set up to award students achieving outstanding results in the study of Chinese philosophy.
In commemoration of its 60th anniversary, the Department has edited a collection of essays in two volumes, Ponder over Yonder and Traces across Interlaces, published by The Chinese University Press. Collecting over 50 essays contributed by its faculty and alumni, the two volumes represent the ceaseless effort of the Department’s teachers and students in the pursuit of knowledge and truth.
The celebratory activities commenced as early as 2008, when two international conferences ‘Virtue East and West’ and ‘OPOIII: World Conference on Phenomenology—Nature, Culture and Existence’ were held. In addition, a series of three public talks on ‘Philosophy Education in Hong Kong’ delivered by the Department’s faculty at the Hong Kong Central Library in March and May 2009 has been well received.
For further information of the Department’s 60th anniversary activities, please contact Ms Ivy Ling (Tel.: 2609 8525; Email: ivylingpy@cuhk.edu.hk) or visit the Department’s website: http://phil.arts.cuhk.edu.hk/.
