[date]13 November 2008[/date]
[title]Four Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will confer honorary doctorates on the following four distinguished persons at its Sixty-fifth Congregation to be held on Thursday, 4 December 2008, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Dr. Fung Kwok-king, Victor,an eminent entrepreneur and community leader, is the Chairman of the Li &amp; Fung Group of companies and the Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce. He had also been the Chairman of the Hong Kong Airport Authority for nine years. As a keen and staunch supporter of education, Dr. Fung has been a member of the Council of CUHK and has taught its MBA programmes. He also supported the establishment of the Li &amp; Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management &amp; Logistics and the Li &amp; Fung Scholarship at CUHK. Dr. Fung is the Chairman of the Council of The University of Hong Kong. The University will confer upon Dr. Fung the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his exceptional achievement in the business sector as well as his generous support and contributions to the University.
Professor Hsu Cho-yun is an internationally renowned historian accomplished at Asian studies. He has made distinguished contributions to CUHK as Professor of History and Honorary Research Professor and has paid numerous visits to the University to host important academic lectures. As one of the directors of the Chiang Ching Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Professor Hsu provided valuable guidance and support to CUHK in establishing The Chinese University of Hong Kong - Chiang Ching Kuo Foundation Asia-Pacific Centre for Chinese Studies at The Institute of Chinese Studies. The University will confer upon Professor Hsu the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa, in recognition of his excellent contributions to the development of education in Hong Kong, and his outstanding achievement in the advancement of ancient and modern Chinese studies.
Professor Louis J. Ignarro, a distinguished molecular and medical pharmacologist and 1998 Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine, is currently Distinguished Professor of Pharmacology at UCLA, USA, and an Honorary Professor of Medicine at CUHK. Professor Ignarro discovered that nitric oxide causes vasodilation, inhibits thrombosis, and is produced in arteries as the endothelium-derived relaxing factor. His discoveries have greatly encouraged research in the protective mechanism of the cardiovascular system against pathological conditions and in vascular complications, bearing significant impact on medical development. The University will confer upon Professor Ignarro the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his valuable advice and support to CUHK in its research and development in medicine and science.
Professor Yang Tzu-yow, Henry is a world-renowned aerospace engineer and Chancellor of UC, Santa Barbara, USA, where he founded interdisciplinary research centres and established innovative teaching and learning programmes. Apart from his prominent achievement in the areas of aeronautics and astronautics, Professor Yang has also contributed towards university education and made significant contributions to the governance review of CUHK by providing valuable advice to the University Council. The University will confer upon Professor Yang the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his remarkable contributions to promoting diversity in higher education, as well as his unfailing support for the academic development of the University.
