[date]1 October 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Kicks Off Stage 2 Engagement Activities of 
Campus Master Plan [/title]
The campus master planning of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has entered its second stage of stakeholder engagement activities. The Steering Committee of the Campus Master Plan (CMP) will continue to collect views from all University members on the conceptual plan presented by the consultant for the formulation of a sustainable and comprehensive CMP for the years leading up to 2021 and beyond.
Conceptual Plan Presented by Consultant
The consultant (Aedas Limited and its overseas partner, Edward Cullinan Architects, UK) recently presented a conceptual plan to University members after taking into account views and concerns collected during Stage 1 engagement activities, as well as findings of in-depth studies conducted by the team on the CUHK campus. The conceptual plan includes the consultant’s visions for CUHK in 2021 and six key planning issues, namely enhancement of college life, venues for academic and recreational activities, creation of a pedestrian-friendly campus, campus landscape, a sustainable campus andconservation of places with cultural significance. The conceptual plan has been uploaded to the CMP website (www.cuhk.edu.hk/cmp/en/), and exhibition boards featuring the six key planning issues are now on display at various venues on campus.
Active Participation of CUHK Staff, Students and Alumni
Shortly after its appointment in early 2008, the consultant began Stage 1 of a CMP study and launched a series of activities to collect detailed information. It organized events including a briefing session, six engagement meetings, three workshops and a forum and attended an alumni sharing session to listen to and collect the views of the Colleges, Faculties, students, staff members, alumni and other members of the University community. Through these activities and a questionnaire survey, the consultant gained a thorough understanding of stakeholders’ concerns on campus planning, facilities, transportation and conservation. The Stage 1 Stakeholder Engagement Report was emailed to all University members in August and uploaded to the CMP website.
Progress of the CMP
The consultant is about to launch the Stage 2 stakeholder engagement activities, which comprise meetings, workshops, a forum, and a questionnaire survey, with the aim of collecting views from all University members on the six key planning issues. The conceptual plan will be enhanced and developed into a specific plan at the third stage with a view to finalizing a CMP that embodies the shared vision of the University members in the fourth stage, which will take place by the end of this year. The University and the consultant encourage University members to join the effort to formulate a sustainable CMP through continued active participation in the forthcoming engagement exercises.
