[date]10 December 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Wei Lun Public Lecture Presents
“Adaptive Structural System Synthesis with Multi-Field Coupling” 
by Professor Wang Kon-well from the University of Michigan[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present the Wei Lun Public Lecture on “Adaptive Structural System Synthesis with Multi-Field Coupling” by Prof. Wang Kon-well, Department Chair and Stephen P. Timoshenko Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Michigan this Friday (12 December).
During the past couple of decades, due to the new advances in materials, electronics, and system integration technologies, structural dynamics and control researchers in various disciplines have been investigating the feasibility of creating adaptive structures (also known as smart structures and intelligent structures). The ultimate vision is to develop a structure that has built-in actuation, sensing, decision-making, self-powering, self-diagnostic, and self-healing abilities. It is clear that to achieve significant advances in future adaptive structure research, structural system researchers will have to conduct even more cross talks with researchers in various other disciplines, such as biology, chemistry, electronics, materials, and nano science. In this lecture, Prof. Wang will review some of the recent interdisciplinary efforts in adaptive structure control and identification enhancement via cross-field coupling synthesis.
Prof. Wang started his career in academia in 1988 as an Assistant Professor at The Pennsylvania State University. During his Penn State years, Prof. Wang served as the William E. Diefenderfer Chaired Professor in Mechanical Engineering, Director of the Structural Dynamics and Controls Lab, Associate Director of the Vertical Lift Research Center of Excellence, and Group Leader for the Center for Acoustics and Vibration. He is also a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and has received numerous recognitions for his accomplishments in research and education, including the ASME N.O. Myklestad Award for major innovative contribution to vibration engineering, the ASME Adaptive Structures and Materials Systems Prize for significant contributions to the advancement of the sciences associated with adaptive structures and/or material systems, and the NASA Tech Brief Award.
Prof. Wang’s lecture will take place at 10:30 a.m., 12 December, at TY Wong Hall, 5/F, Ho Sin-Hang Engineering Building, CUHK, Shatin. Public is welcome to apply for the online registration at http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/wang/registration.htm.
The Wei Lun Visiting Professorship / Fellowship Scheme of CUHK was established through a generous donation by the Wei Lun Foundation Limited with the aim to invite eminent scholars from around the world to visit and give lecture at CUHK.
