[date]28 October 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Joins Hands with University of South Carolina to Launch an “International Business and Chinese Enterprise” Concentration Nurturing International Business Talents with China Intelligence [/title]
The Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will partner with the Moore School of Business at the University of South Carolina (USC) to launch a new International Business and Chinese Enterprise (IBCE) concentration. The new initiative, which represents a new concentration of the existing Integrated BBA programme at CUHK, will provide students with an unprecedented opportunity to equip themselves for pursuing careers in international business with an emphasis on business activities between China and the United States. The first batch of student intake in Hong Kong will be in 2010 with a normative study period of 3 years. Intake number will be limited to 20.
The significant increase of business activities between China and the US under the great trend of globalization leads to a growing demand for young professionals with advanced understanding of international business, in particular that between China and the US. To address this need, the new IBCE concentration put great emphasis on advanced understanding of the business practices of the US, China and Asia. Equal importance is given to the understanding of the cultural dynamics between the East and the West which will definitely shape business behavior. Strong communication capability is the key for successful international business professionals. Thus, another distinct feature of the concentration is the advanced level requirements of English and Chinese Mandarin language proficiency for all students (both US and Hong Kong students).
Students of the two universities will be admitted annually to cohorts who will share courses and experiences together at both the CUHK campus and the USC campus throughout the three-year curriculum. In addition to course work, the students are required to complete summer internships in both the US and China. They will receive a bachelor degree by their home institution upon completion of the stream. All students who have completed their bachelor degrees can opt for continuing the master programme offered by the University of South Carolina in the US.
Prof. Liu Pak Wai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said, “With China’s emergence in the world economy comes the need to educate a new generation of business leaders possessing solid knowledge of Asian markets, China in particular, with a global mindset. Situated at the world’s doorway to China with a well-developed foundation in business education and research, CUHK sees our uniqueness in nurturing business leaders for tomorrow. Our Business Faculty and the Moore School of Business are providers of top business programmes that are currently enjoying high reputation locally, regionally and internationally. Through the internationally oriented curriculum, students will be able to expose to how businesses are run differently in China and the US. Living and studying abroad will also allow students to integrate into the local culture of each place.”
Prof. Mark Becker, Provost of the University of South Carolina said, “Since 1919, innovation has been critical to the success of the University of South Carolina’s Moore School of Business. The school has a history of staying attuned to ever-changing global markets by linking business and language courses with overseas study experiences. Our relationship with The Chinese University of Hong Kong offers a particular exciting opportunity for students who want to focus on China as the gateway to business between U.S. and the expanding Asian markets.”
The Moore School of Business at University of South Carolina is renowned for the strength of its international business programme. Their international undergraduate programmes has been ranked No.1 for 12 consecutive years, while the International Master of Business Administration programme has been ranked No. 1 or 2 for 19 years by the U.S. News &amp; World Report.
Faculty of Business Administration, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
The Faculty of Business Administration at CUHK has over 2,500 undergraduate and 1,600 graduate students. Its students are among the highest quality in Hong Kong and mainland China. Over the years, the Faculty has nurtured more than 12,000 undergraduates and over 4,000 MBA graduates, which form an extensive business network around the world. The Faculty’s research in international business also owns international recognition. We have been ranked No.1 worldwide for publications in Journal of International Business Studies, a top international business journal for the period 1995 to 2008. The Faculty was also ranked first in international business research by the International Business Review in 2006.
MooreSchool of Business, The University of South Carolina
For more than 25 years, the Moore School of Business at the University of South Carolina has been widely recognized for the strength of its international business programmes. Their International Business (IB) undergraduate programme has been consistently rated No. 1 among all programmes for the past twelve years; and their International Master of Business Administration has been ranked No.1 or 2 for 19 years by the U.S. News &amp; World Report since the academic rankings began in 1989. Undergraduate students at the Moore School of Business also specialize in accounting, economics, finance, insurance and risk management, management and marketing, etc.
