[date]12 October 2008[/date]
[title]United College Distinguished Visiting Scholar
Professor Qin Dahe[/title]
Professor Qin Dahe, Academician of Chinese Academy of Sciences and Director, State Key Laboratory of Cryoshperic Sciences, will visit United College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong from tomorrow (13 October) to 19 October as the College’s Distinguished Visiting Scholar in 2008-09.
Professor Qin is an internationally renowned climatologist and expert on global change. He is currently the Director of State Key Laboratory of Cryoshperic Sciences, Member of IPCC Bureau, Co-Chair of Working Group I for the Fourth IPCC Assessment Report, Vice President of International Geographical Union, President of Chinese Meteorological Society, and Vice Chairman of Commission on Population, Resource and Environment of the 11th National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference. In June this year he received the 53rd World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Prize and became the second Chinese recipient of this highest award of WMO. Last December as a key member of IPCC Bureau, he represented Chinese scientists to attend the award ceremony of Nobel Prize for Peace of 2007.
Over the past three decades, Professor Qin has been actively and productively engaged in cryospheric and global change studies. He has participated and taken a leading role in numerous scientific exploration and research projects in the South Pole, North Pole, Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and the western region of China. He has systematically studied the “decay” process of ice cap in the South Pole and used a quantitative approach to characterize the regional patterns of the evolution of snow to glacier ice. His research has investigated the relationship between the physical/chemical processes in the surface snow layer of South Pole ice cap and the environmental records of climate. The research findings in several areas, such as the relationship between the distribution of stable isotopes in precipitation and air temperature, sources and pathways of water vapor and multiple impurities, are still the most comprehensive and in-depth results of research on South Pole ice cap.
Professor Qin has carried out pioneering work on the monitoring and experiment of modern processes and biogeochemical cycling in snow and ice cover, demonstrating the applicability and validity of climatic signals derived from mountainous ice cores. His research on glacial evolution, modern environmental changes and ice cores in the Mt. Qomolangma (Everest) area has discovered the characteristics of modern climate change in the highest elevations of the earth. Under the leadership of Professor Qin, studies on “Climate of China and Environmental Change” and “Assessment of Environmental Changes in China’s West” have produced numerous influential results and made important contributions to global change research.
During his visit to United College, Professor Qin will deliver the following open lectures and seminar. Details are given below:

1)
Lecture: Global warming and the socio-economic development of China in the 21st Century(in Putonghua)
Tuesday, 14 October 2008, 4:30pm – 6:00pm; Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, CUHK

2)
Lecture: Weather hazards in a changing climate and their relevance to China’s sustainability(in English)
Thursday, 16 October 2008, 4:30pm – 6:00pm; Lecture Theatre C1, T.C. Cheng Building, United College, CUHK

3)
Seminar: Past, present, and future of IPCC(in Putonghua)
Friday, 17 October 2008, 4:30pm – 6:00pm; Room 422 Sino Building, CUHK

4)
Lecture: The first Chinese at South Pole: Global warming from the perspective of polar exploration (in Putonghua)
Saturday, 18 October 2008; 10:00am – 11:30am; Hong Kong Science Museum
(This lecture is jointly organized by United College, Department of Geography and Resource Management, Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, Hong Kong Observatory and Hong Kong Meteorological Society. Hong Kong Observatory Director Mr. Lam Chiu-ying will give an address and Polar Explorer Li Lok-sze will participate in a sharing session.)
Website: http://www.iseis.cuhk.edu.hk/qindahe/

For further information, please contact Mr George Lam at 2609-7598 or Ms Amy Yeung at 2609-7455 of United College.
Please visit the following website for details of the lecture: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/uc/dvs/dvs2008/UCDVS08.htm
