[date]9 October 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Students Complete Global Internship Programme
Participating Countries Spanning over USA, Canada, Europe, Australia and
the Mainland[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a certificate presentation ceremony to present certificates to 184 students who participated in its Global Internship Programme today (9 October). Built on the many years of success of the China Career Development Award Programme and Overseas Internship Programme, the Global Internship Programme has been developed since 2006 to provide students with a diversity of internship and cultural exchange opportunities.
With the continuous sponsorship of The Hongkong Bank Foundation and The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, together with Oriental Watch Holdings Limited, China Construction Bank (Asia) and a number of individual sponsors, the programme provided opportunities to 184 students to have summer internships ranging from six to 24 weeks in major cities in the mainland and overseas countries. Among them, 126 students interned at various national, Hong Kong-funded and multi-national enterprises in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Xian. The remaining 58 students received their internships in overseas cities including Melbourne, Sydney, Toronto, Vancouver, Brussels, Dublin, London, Paris, New York, Orlando, etc.
The internship programme covered a multitude of industries this year, including medical services, logistics, property management consultancy and agency services, accountancy, auditing, banking, energy, information technology, insurance, marketing, media, telecommunications, tourism, trading and promotion, etc.
The Global Internship Programme has received warm response from many countries and organizations. Representatives of the Consulate-General of Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Ireland, the UK and the USA, governmental units of Beijing, Shanghai and Xian, the Liaison Office of The Central People’s Government in the HKSAR and a number of internship organizations turned up at the ceremony to show their support.
“To realize our mission of internationalization and to encourage more cross-cultural learning opportunities for our students, the University provides local, mainland and overseas internship training to students at large on an on-going basis, not just in a one-off exercise,” said Acting Vice-Chancellor Professor Pak-wai Liu at the ceremony. “The experience has helped to broaden the horizons of the students, cultivate their sensitivity to cultural differences, and prepare them for the international world of work.”
CUHK has long upheld its belief in developing all-round and high quality students. To tie in with the globalized development of modern society, students must have a global vision, be able to appreciate and respect different cultures and possess the ability to communicate with people from a wide array of cultural backgrounds. The Global Internship Programme provides a valuable opportunity for students to broaden their horizons and learn more about their motherland and the world.
There have been about 2,000 interns since the inception of the China Career Development Award Programme in 1997. The participating organizations include 172 Hong Kong/multi-national corporations and 81 national enterprises.
