[date]6 December 2008[/date]
[title]Shenzhou-7 Space Mission Seminar Held at The Chinese University of Hong Kong Today[/title]
The Delegation of the Shenzhou-7 Manned Space Mission visited The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today (December 6) to give a seminar to some 500 tertiary students and guests. The delegation members include the leader of the delegation and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of China's Manned Space Engineering Programme, Mr. Zhang Jianqi, astronauts Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, as well as commanders and designers of the major engineering systems of this manned space mission.
CUHK Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, welcomed the delegation. “We are much honoured to have here at The Chinese University of Hong Kong the three astronauts who conquered space and the scientists who provided ground support to share their feelings and experiences with us. The students from Hong Kong’s eight major tertiary institutions are very excited to meet the astronauts in person and learn from those top-notch aerospace scientists the latest developments and future trends of China’s manned space mission programme.”
At the seminar, the chief designer of China's manned space engineering programme, Mr. Zhou Jianping, gave a comprehensive academic presentation on the launch of Shenzhou-7, space walk technology and China's aerospace science development, during which rare space flight documentary was screened. In the dialogue session, the three astronauts, Zhai Zhigang, Liu Boming and Jing Haipeng, communicated with the students and answered a number of questions.
As a token of thanks to the Shenzou-7 delegation, Vice-Chancellor Lawrence J. Lau presented the delegation with a painting scroll depicting the beautiful scenery of CUHK by Mr. Wang Mingming, a Chinese painter. In return, the delegation gave CUHK a commemorative stamp scroll titled “Chinese Takeoff”, and presented the eight tertiary institutions with a special edition of the astronaut magazine Shenzhou-7 autographed by the three astronauts, as well as a documentary about the astronauts’ spacewalk, which are both of high commemorative value.
After the seminar, the delegation had a group photo taken in front of CUHK's Satellite Remote Sensing Receiving Station, an important facility of the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. By capturing and processing satellite-sourced remote sensing data, the station provides all-weather environmental surveillance of Hong Kong, South China and neighbouring regions, which helps to greatly reduce personal and economic damages caused by such natural disasters as landslide, earthquake, tsunami and flood.
