[date]16 October 2008[/date]
[title]Credit Suisse and The Chinese University of Hong Kong to Offer Global Finance Diploma [/title]
Credit Suisse announced yesterday (15 October) that it has partnered with The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to offer a Diploma in Global Finance to its employees in Asia Pacific for the second consecutive year.
This year, the Diploma has attracted more than 30 participants from five countries, representing a cross-section of business and support functions at Credit Suisse. They will undertake a 15-month program that combines financial knowledge, industry trends, strategic management and leadership skills, including classroom training and action learning projects. Some of the modules are delivered by Credit Suisse to ensure the program is directly relevant to the participants’ development needs.
“The program is unique in that it is exclusive to Credit Suisse and is designed to attract high potential employees who can manage the continuously growing demands for banking professionals to further their business education in an increasingly complex environment", said Patsy Doerr, Credit Suisse’s Head of Business School, Asia Pacific. "This program is a new approach to facilitate this and supports our aim to further cultivate our talent pipeline.”
Professor Leslie Young, Professor of Finance and Executive Director of The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business, CUHK added: “The US sub-prime crisis is shaking the architecture of global finance, redistributing power and wealth, and challenging the credibility of institutions and ideologies. Participants in the second intake of the Credit Suisse Diploma in Global Finance will be brought up to date on the most recent developments and their short and long term implications for global financial services."
Credit Suisse 
As one of the world's leading banks, Credit Suisse provides its clients with private banking, investment banking and asset management services worldwide. Credit Suisse offers advisory services, comprehensive solutions and innovative products to companies, institutional clients and high-net-worth private clients globally, as well as retail clients in Switzerland. Credit Suisse is active in over 50 countries and employs approximately 49,000 people. Credit Suisse is comprised of a number of legal entities around the world and is headquartered in Zurich. The registered shares (CSGN) of Credit Suisse's parent company, Credit Suisse Group AG, are listed in Switzerland and, in the form of American Depositary Shares (CS), in New York. Further information about Credit Suisse can be found at www.credit-suisse.com.
The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business 
The Asia-Pacific Institute of Business (APIB) was established in 1990 as the external arm of the Faculty of Business Administration of CUHK to provide high-quality executive education, research and consultancy services to corporations in Hong Kong and the Asia-Pacific region. APIB’s mission is to assist managers and companies in meeting buisness challenges. Surplus from these activities is used to support research and academic enrichment programmes in the Faculty. In the past decade, thousands of professional and managers in public and private organisations in the region have benefited from APIB’s executive and diploma programmes.
