[date]27 October 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK’s EMBA – Jump to Top 11 Schools Worldwide
No. 1 Independent EMBA in Asia-Pacific Again [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Executive MBA Programme has announced that it has scored another success in the Financial Times 2008 ranking of EMBA programme, released today.
In its latest global survey of 96 EMBA Programmes worldwide, the London-based Financial Times ranked CUHK’s EMBA Programme No. 11 in 2008, the best global ranking result the programme has ever achieved from Financial Times since the newspaper’s first launch of EMBA ranking in 2001. It is also the programme’s great leap forward from its ranking of No. 15 achieved in last three consecutive years (2005-2007).
“We are very pleased to note this encouraging result. Ours is the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong Kong product. The Programme’s success is, therefore, Hong Kong’s success,” Professor Andrew C. F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme, said. “In addition, we owe the result to the support of our University management and the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, staff, students, alumni and our devoted friends in the business community.”
Of note, of all the independent programmes in the Asia-Pacific, CUHK’s EMBA Programme has been ranked top in 2003-08, for the last six consecutive years; among all independent programmes in Asia, it has been ranked top from 2001-08, for eight consecutive years.
It scored high in areas such as alumni’s salary today, salary increase, work experience, international students, international advisory board, women students, and women faculty. Alumni’s salary is the 5th highest in the world. The programme also achieved a very high salary increase rate of 81% this year, which obviously jumps drastically from the salary increase rate of 68% achieved last year.
It is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, but also one of two business schools in the top 11 where the medium of teaching is bilingual (the other is Instituto de Empresa in Spain).
“As always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit,” Prof Chan said, “What is important is maintaining our ability to nurture world-class management talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the region.”
“We will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory and application, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since 2002, enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders. As such we have co-organized with RTHK, ATV, Cable TV and now BNC the popular “Talking to CEOs” series, and the “New Thinking in Management” live programme currently aired every Sunday afternoon on RTHK’s Radio One. For reaching a broader spectrum of audience and readers, the content of these programmes as well as that of our EMBA Forum, Conference, Seminars, etc. were published and produced regularly in the format of books, DVDs, CDs and newspapers such as SCMP, Hong Kong Economic Journal, Hong Kong Economic Journal Monthly and Sing Tao Daily. Our programme has also recently launched the “EMBA Insights” session for students, alumni and different experts to discuss the contemporary issues. Topics discussed include the recent global financial tsunami,” he added.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Independent EMBA Programme was ranked no. 1 in Asia by both Financial Times and BusinessWeek in 2001, and again by Financial Times in 2002-2008. It was also granted “The Best EMBA Educational Organization Award” by the SmartFortune Magazine in 2004.
