[date]9 December 2008[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Washington University in St. Louis present an International Conference on 
“Globalization: Cultures, Institutions and Socioeconomics”[/title]
Encountering pressing issues of fair trade, global warming, poverty, effective governance, terrorism, and, most recently, the accelerating economic cycles and crises, globalization has probably been the most important studies in the contemporary society. In view of this, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Washington University in St. Louis (WUSTL) will present an International Conference on “Globalization: Cultures, Institutions and Socioeconomics” on 12 and 13 December on CUHK campus.
This conference is designed to study the causes and consequences of globalization, with an aim to facilitating inter-disciplinary and inter-cultural dialogues among academics from different backgrounds and promoting integrated studies on important issues concerning cultural, institutional and socioeconomic developments in the process of globalization of Greater China. With its significant focus on Greater China, the conference brings together a rich set of papers concerning cultural expressions, legal regimes, heritage, environment, citizenship, mobilization, city, labour, etc.
There will be four keynotes, two plenary sessions and 22 concurrent sessions, bringing together over 100 speakers from all over the world. Professor Douglass C. North, 1993 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, Professor Robert Hegel, Liselotte Dieckmann Professor of Comparative Literature at WUSTL,Professor Beng-Huat Chua, Professor of Sociology at the National University of Singapore, and Professor Gordon Mathews, Department of Anthropology at CUHK will deliver keynote addresses. A short list of distinguished speakers including Professors Michele Boldrin, Frank Dikotter, Aihwa Ong, Hsiao-Yen Peng, Henry Wan, Shaoguang Wang and Murray Weidenbaum will also present at the conference.
The conference is jointly organized by the Department of Anthropology, Department of Cultural and Religious Studies and Department of Economics at CUHK, together with East Asia Studies Program and Department of Economics at WUSTL. For more information and the programme of the conference, please visit the website at: http://www.artsci.wustl.edu/~eas/globalization.htm.
