[date]4 December 2008[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 
65th Congregation for Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 65th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees today. Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng, Chairman of the University Council presided at the Congregation.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong conferred honorary doctorates on four distinguished persons, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, and the development of the University. They are: Dr. Fung Kwok-king, Victor, Chairman of the Li &amp; Fung Group of companies and Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce; Professor Hsu Cho-yun, an internationally renowned historian; Professor Louis J. Ignarro, a distinguished molecular and medical pharmacologist and 1998 Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine; and Professor Yang Tzu-yow, Henry, a world-renowned aerospace engineer and Chancellor of UC, Santa Barbara, USA.
Dr. Fung Kwok-king, Victor was conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Professor Hsu Cho-yun received the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa. Professor Louis J. Ignarro and Professor Yang Tzu-yow, Henry were each awarded the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa.
Besides the four honorary doctorate degrees, a total of 6,673 degrees were conferred at the congregation. These included 5 Doctor of Medicine, 218 Doctor of Philosophy, 6 Doctor of Education degrees, 3,642 students receiving Master’s degrees (including the first batch of 20 Master of Health Science from the Faculty of Medicine), and 2,802 students receiving Bachelor’s degrees. Among the last were 446 Bachelor of Arts, 540 Bachelor of Business Administration, 28 Bachelor of Education, 346 Bachelor of Engineering, 1 Bachelor of Medical Sciences, 139 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 140 Bachelor of Nursing, 30 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 23 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 565 Bachelor of Science and 544 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.
