[date]17 October 2008[/date]
[title]British Consul-General to Hong Kong and Macao Andrew Seaton
to Speak at CUHK next Monday[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present a public lecture by Mr. Andrew Seaton, the newly-appointed British Consul-General to Hong Kong and Macao, on “Climate Change: Hong Kong’s Role in the Global Challenge” next Monday (20 October) on campus. The lecture has received warm response from members of the political, business, environmental and academic sectors. A limited number of seats are still available and members of the public are welcome to join the lecture by online registration (http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/lecture/chinese/registration.html).
In the lecture, Mr. Seaton will discuss how climate change has become a top policy priority for the British government and one of the most truly global of issues. He recognises that industrialised countries need to take a lead on the issue, and the full participation of the major emerging economies - including China - is crucial to make the global effort successful. There are significant costs to tackling climate change. But the costs of not tackling it will be far higher for our economies and security. All countries need to move to a low carbon economy. This shift will create major new economic and business opportunities – the scale of which is only now becoming clearer.
Mr. Andrew Seaton has been a member of Her Majesty’s Diplomatic Service since 1977. He has been British Consul-General in Hong Kong since April 2008; other overseas postings have included Chicago, Hong Kong (in the 1990s) and Dakar. He has spent much of his career dealing with Britain’s relations with China and Hong Kong. Mr. Seaton received education from the University of Leeds and Beijing University.
CUHK has been organising the Consul-Generals / diplomats lecture series since 2005. A number of famous diplomats including Consul-Generals of USA, UK, Japan, France, Korea, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Italy, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to PRC and the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC in Hong Kong have delivered their lectures on CUHK campus. On 19 November, Mr. Joseph R. Donovan Jr., the new U.S. Consul-General to Hong Kong and Macau, will also present a public lecture at CUHK.
