[date]9 February 2009[/date]
[title]CUHK signs Agreement of Academic Exchange and Cooperation with Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences &amp; Sichuan Provincial People’s Hospital [/title]
The catastrophic Sichuan Earthquake in May 2008 caused massive damage to the province and ruined numerous families. The reconstruction of the province is underway while relief works are still very much in need for quake survivors to resume their normal lives. Stand TALL is a charitable organization registered in HK. Convened by Professor K M Chan, Professor of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK, the project aims at providing the quake victims with a comprehensive rehabilitation programme and training up Sichuan medical staff. In the past eight months, it has already provided services for more than 300 patients. To further strengthen the partnership in academic exchange, Professor T F Fok, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of CUHK signed the Agreement of Academic Exchange and Cooperation with Professor Li Yuan-feng, President of the Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences &amp; Sichuan Provincial People’s Hospital today (9 February). This formal collaboration signifies CUHK’s long-term commitment in contributing to the rehabilitation programme in Sichuan.
Led by Professor Li Yuan-feng, the Sichuan delegation is visiting Hong Kong from 8 to 11 February. The delegation includes three quake survivors supported by Stand TALL, namely Song Xin-yi, Gong Gui-lin and Dai Guo-hong. Song, a 3-year old girl, is the youngest patient supported by Stand TALL, probably also the youngest amputee in history. After being fitted the prosthesis, she can now climb up and down the staircase freely, showing the importance of rehabilitation at the early stage. Since her parents lost their lives when protecting her at the earthquake, Stand TALL will keep taking good care of her in the future. Gong and Dai are both teenage bilateral amputees. During their visit to Hong Kong, they will receive state-of-the-art rehabilitation advice and medical treatment. Joint medical consultation will be organized between the medical professionals in Hong Kong and Sichuan to further enhance the treatment protocol of the patients.
In addition, the delegation will meet with Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK to elaborate issues about academic cooperation. Besides, the delegation will meet with Dr. York Chow, SBS, JP, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government, and Mr. Anthony Wu, JP, Chairman of the Hospital Authority to report on the latest development of the Sichuan-Hong Kong Rehabilitation Centre and the Sichuan-Hong Kong Rehabilitation Training and Development Programme.
