[date]14 November 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Nethersole School of Nursing organized the Fourth Pan-Pacific Nursing Conference and the Sixth Hong Kong Nursing Symposium on Cancer Care[/title]
More than 260 local and overseas delegates from 20 countries and regions attended the Fourth Pan-Pacific Nursing Conference and the Sixth Hong Kong Nursing Symposium on Cancer Care organized by The Nethersole School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) from 13 to 15 November 2008.
This is the fourth time that CUHK hosts this international nursing conference of such a magnitude and importance. The conference aims to provide an excellent forum for nursing academics and practitioners from different cultural backgrounds to exchange views and insights as well as to explore global trends that impact on nursing profession. The theme for this year’s conference, “Managing chronic illness: challenges and opportunities for nursing practice and research”, is considered most appropriate and timely to address the increasing threat of chronic disease to the health of populations across different countries and in different cultures. Locally in Hong Kong, chronic disease accounts for 60% of deaths every year. There are about one million people in Hong Kong suffering from one or two types of chronic diseases. Local and overseas nursing academics and practitioners were gathered to examine the challenges and complexities of managing chronic illness to maximize the quality of life of patients and facilitate the development of innovative strategies for chronic disease management.
Officiating guests at the opening ceremony on 13 November 2008 included Dr. York Chow, SBS, JP, Secretary for Food and Health, Food and Health Bureau; Professor Kenneth Young, Acting Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; and Professor Diana Lee, Professor of Nursing &amp; Director, The Nethersole School of Nursing, CUHK.
Five international experts specializing in managing care for patients with chronic disease were invited to deliver guest and keynote addresses at the conference. They were: Ms Kathleen Fritsch, Regional Nursing Adviser, WHO Western Pacific Region; Professor Sally Thorne, University of British Columbia, Canada; Dr. Debbie Kralik, University of South Australia; Professor Alison Richardson, King’s College London, England; and Professor Donna Berry, University of Washington, USA. They presented and discussed innovative strategies such as self-management in chronic illness and patient-centered cancer care. These presentations have provided nursing academics and practitioners with new insights for managing chronic disease locally, regionally and globally.
The Nethersole School of Nursing of CUHK is the first academic department of nursing in Hong Kong, committing to excel in teaching and research and in the promotion of the highest standards of nursing practice. Through serving the community with quality education, caring practice and the advancement of nursing sciences, the School maintains its leading position in academic and clinical nursing development.
