[date]13 November 2008[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Organizes International Conference on Childhood Obesity[/title]
The Department of Sports Science and Physical Education, Faculty of Education at The Chinese University of Hong Kong will hold the “International Conference on Childhood Obesity: Evidence and Practice from Exercise Science” (ICCO2008) from today (13 November) to 16 November 2008 on the Chinese University campus.
Research shows obesity is on the rise in Hong Kong and all over the world. The International Obesity Task Force (IOTF) reported in 2004 that 2-3% of the world’s children aged 5-17 were obese, compared to 4.7% in Hong Kong using the same IOTF criteria. Using the weight-height standard, the Department of Health of the HKSAR Government reported an increase of childhood obesity from 15% in 1997 to 17.9% in 2004 among children aged 6-18, and from 15.9% to 18.7% for the same period for primary students . As recent research shows, obese children will probably remain obese throughout adulthood. A research conducted in 2001 in the USA found that overweight adolescents had a 70% greater chance of becoming overweight or obese as adults. The IOTF further reported that childhood obesity was "increasing in both developed and developing countries," significantly raising the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, heart disease and a variety of other co-morbidities in children.
The ICCO2008 is the first ever international conference in Hong Kong that focuses on the latest knowledge and advances in the prevention and intervention of childhood obesity. Its ultimate aim is to lower the incidence of childhood and youth obesity through increased sport and physical activity participation, reduced sedentary behaviours, and sound nutrition. More than 100 delegates from North America, Europe, Australia, Japan, Chinese Mainland, Taiwan, and Hong Kong will participate in the conference. Ten distinguished international scholars are invited to address this topic, including Prof. Stanley Sai-chuen HUI of the Department of Sports Science and Physical Education of CUHK, and chairman of the Scientific Committee of the Conference, who will report on the current trend of childhood obesity in Hong Kong and nearby Asian Countries.
The conference will cover various childhood obesity epidemiology, prevention and management issues, and related research with an emphasis on the role of exercise science. Apart from paper presentations, an exhibition and a series of pre-conference workshops will be held for delegates to experience skills that can help curb childhood obesity in school and social settings. The conference will bear impact not only on today’s children, but also the next generation of our society.
For further details, please visit the website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/spe/obesity2008/index.html
