[date]1 April 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Invents World-class Intelligent Grinding Machine for Production of Large Telescope[/title]
Buoyed by great technological advances, optical systems and assemblies have undergone tremendous progress in recent years. The design and making of systems of lens and mirrors to effectuate desirable optical properties and phenomena is emerging quickly as a vigorously pursued and highly contested arena of research and development in the world. Examples of advanced applications include high precision mirrors for large telescope, free-form lens with special optical effects and interferometric measuring devices for ultra-precise manufacturing processes, to cite just a few. Nowadays overseas universities and research institutes devote many resources to optical engineering and sciences.
The Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has recently developed a world-class intelligent grinding machine that includes a unique mechanism for the required grinding, polishing and figuring processes in the making of high precision telescope mirrors of near meter-size diameter. Sponsored by the Innovation and Technology Commission, the machinery has won the “2007 Hong Kong Awards for Industries: Technological Achievement Certificate of Merit”.
This intelligent grinding machine also features new designs in the tool head holder, work-piece support platform and abrasive liquid injection module. The grinding operation is guided by efficient tool path selection and execution algorithms. A computer-controlled measurement assembly for automatic optical testing and pattern interpretation serves to enable closed loop quantitative monitoring and fine figuring of the work-piece. The machine accommodates the making of a 0.6 m diameter mirror and is readily scalable to bigger versions.
Professor Yam Yeung, Chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, CUHK said, “The awarded project is aimed at significantly enhancing the technological expertise of the Hong Kong optical industry to stay competitive and migrate towards upper scale markets currently dominated by overseas makers. Additionally, the production cost of high precision telescope mirrors will be reduced by half, which will contribute to the promotion of astronomy and space sciences in Hong Kong and regionally.”
To explore the future development of the local optical industry, the Seminar on Optical Systems and Telescope Technology: Recent Development and Future Outlook co-organized by the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering at CUHK, the Department of Optical Engineering at the Beijing Institute of Technology, the Chinese Optical Society, and the Hong Kong Photographic and Optics Manufacturers Association was held today (April 1) and was attended by about 100 members from the industry. Sponsored by the Innovation and Technology Commission, the seminar was addressed by the following speakers: Professor Zhou Liwei, Chief Scientist of the Beijing Institute of Technology and Director of the Chinese Optical Society; Professor Yam Yeung, Chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, CUHK; Mr Fok Chi Man, Chairman of the Hong Kong Photographic and Optics Manufacturers Association; and Dr Adrian Lo, Business Development Director of TDK.
Professor Zhou, Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering since 1999, is a prominent optical engineering scholar in China. In the seminar, he lectured on “Optical engineering and opportunities for Beijing/Hong Kong Collaboration” and presented a collection of his 20 books on optical engineering to CUHK as a gift.
