[date]15 June 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Participates in International “Research to Business” Exhibition in Italy[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) joined with delegates from 31 countries including Australia, Canada, Mainland China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Singapore, UK and USA etc. to display its latest technological innovations in the "Research to Business" (R2B) 2008 exhibition held in Bologna, Italy from 5 to 6 June. Organized by the Italian Trade Commission, the R2B exhibition is a major annual expo promoting technological innovations and technology transfer in Europe. Every summer, the Italian government invites selected research institutes from all over the world to Bologna, the industrial capital of Italy, to showcase their latest works and share their experience in technology transfer.
CUHK was the only institute representing Hong Kong this year. The Italian Trade Commission had generously sponsored most of the expenses of CUHK, including booth rental, traveling and accommodation. During the exhibition, two staff members from the Centre for Innovation and Technology at CUHK introduced and demonstrated to visitors the latest interactive multimedia and mobile video streaming technologies. The scientific findings on the use of Chinese medicine in treating cardiovascular disorder were also highlighted at the exhibition. Besides, visitors could learn more about the broad spectrum of research activities at CUHK through posters and booklets.
Participation in overseas exhibition is one of the major platforms for CUHK to develop technology transfer, said Prof. Kam-Fai Wong, Director of Centre for Innovation and Technology at CUHK. "We have been taking part regularly in exhibitions in Hong Kong and Mainland China, such as the Innovation Expo and the China Hi-tech Fair. The R2B exhibition in Italy is a new channel to present the University's technological innovations to overseas business communities. The exhibition is also an ideal platform for us to exchange experiences with overseas universities in the areas of technology transfer and promotion of industrial collaboration."
