[date]28 May 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Faculty of Education Organizes International Conference on Values Education
“After Values: Practising Values Education in Changing Societies”[/title]
The local educational landscapes as well as the orientation of professional discourses have been undergoing significant changes. On local policy level, values and attitudes are regarded as one of the three guiding curriculum components in Learning to Learn, published by the Curriculum Development Council in 2001. Personal, social and humanities education and liberal studies are also introduced into the curriculum, in which personal growth and critical citizenship are sought after. However, amidst the fast-paced educational reform measures and undertakings, there seems to be a dearth of professional discussions on related issues concerning values in learning and learning in values.
In view of the need to engage scholars, educators as well as policy-makers into professional dialogues that may enlighten the recent values-oriented yet at times values-confused educational discourses, and to gain insights from current educational practices in values across cultural and political borders, an international conference on “After Values: Practising Values Education in Changing Societies” is staged. Co-organized by the Faculty of Education, the Hong Kong Institute of Educational Research and the Department of Educational Administration and Policy at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the conference will be held on 30 and 31 May at the Esther Lee Building of CUHK. It is expected to offer a timely platform for scholarly discussions and fruitful explorations on the principles, approaches and challenges in values education practices in a variety of socio-cultural contexts in the rapidly transforming contemporary world.
To help expand the horizons for the future development of Values Education, three world-renowned scholars including Prof. David Hansen of Columbia University in USA, Dr. Monica Taylor of University of London in UK and Prof. Zhu Xiaoman of Beijing Normal University on the mainland will deliver keynote addresses. Educators and experts around the world have been invited to participate in paper presentations, forums and a series of workshops at the conference surrounding various themes.
Members of the media are cordially invited to cover the conference. For further details, please see the program attached or visit the website: http://www.fed.cuhk.edu.hk/~hkier/ve2008. For enquiries, please call 2609-6929 or fax to 2603-6850.
