[date]27 June 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Xu Yangsheng as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and
Mr. Eric Ng as Registrar [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Prof. Xu Yangsheng as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for three years from 1 August 2008. Prof. Xu is Professor of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering and currently Assistant to the Vice-Chancellor (Mainland Affairs). The University has also appointed Mr. Eric Ng, Director of Registry Services, as Registrar from 1 August 2008. Also from 1 August, Prof. Billy So will step down as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Registrar. He will focus his time and energy on teaching and research in his capacity as Professor of History.
Prof. Billy So’s Significant Contributions as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor
Prof. Billy So, Professor of History, has served as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar of the University since 2004. During his service as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Prof. So has vigorously promoted the research and development of the University in Chinese Studies, serving as the chairman of the Steering Committee for Chinese Studies, and making significant achievements in that capacity. Prof. So has been a key contributor in the formulation of the academic development plans for 2008–2009 and 2009–2012, which lays a solid foundation for the University’s reversion to a four-year undergraduate curriculum in 2012. He has also made landmark contributions to the internationalization of the University, promotion of bilingualism on campus, recruitment of top students as well as teaching talent from overseas and mainland China. The University Council is grateful to Prof. So for his service and contributions in the past four years.
Prof. Xu Yangsheng Appointed Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
Prof. Xu Yangsheng is Professor of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering, and Assistant to the Vice-Chancellor (Mainland Affairs) at CUHK. He received his BS and MS degrees in 1982 and 1984 respectively from Zhejiang University. He pursued further studies at the University of Pennsylvania and received his PhD degree in 1989. He joined CUHK in 1997, serving as chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering from 1997 to 2004. Since 2006, he has served as Assistant to the Vice-Chancellor (Mainland Affairs), director of the CAS–CUHK Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Integration Technology (SIAIT), and deputy director of the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology (SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). As Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Xu will continue to promote closer cooperation between CUHK and its partners in the Pearl River Delta, thereby facilitating the University’s future development in the region, including the supervision of SIAIT, SIAT and CUHK’s developments at Shenzhen Virtual University Park.
Mr. Eric Ng Appointed University Registrar
Director of Registry Services, Mr. Eric Ng, has an MA in mathematics and philosophy from the University of Dundee (1987) and an MTh from the University of London (1988). An experienced administrator, Mr. Ng has served in various capacities at universities in the UK and Hong Kong since 1989. His responsibilities have covered registry, research and departmental affairs. In 2001-02, he joined the Secretariat of the University Grants Committee, where he helped to produce the report on Higher Education in Hong Kong (the Sutherland Report). He joined CUHK in 2007 as Director of Registry Services. Since the early 1990s, Mr. Ng has been an active member of the Association of University Administrators in the UK, where he acquired knowledge about the best modes of administration for academic institutions. He has also undertaken professional and leadership development for university managers at the University of Oxford and Harvard University.
As University Registrar, Mr. Ng will become a member and secretary of the University Senate. In these capacities, he will, with other University officers, participate in the formulation and implementation of academic policies. With Mr. Ng at the helm, the Registry team will continue to provide top-quality professional services.
