[date]8 September 2008[/date]
[title]President of Utrecht University Visits The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) welcomed the President of Utrecht University Prof. Yvonne van Rooy to the campus on 4 September. Prof. Yvonne van Rooy was accompanied by delegates of the Utrecht Province Delegation as well as the Dutch Consul-General of Hong Kong Mr. Robert Schuddeboom.
This was an occasion for the two universities to renew their partnership which started in November 2003. Over the past five years, CUHK and Utrecht University have exchanged some thirty students under their bilateral student exchange arrangement. Furthermore, exchange visits between senior and academic representatives have facilitated closer ties between the two universities. Impressed by CUHK’s teaching and research strengths, Utrecht University has named CUHK as one of the ten preferred partners in China. Special scholarships and awards have been made available for CUHK students, researchers and faculty to conduct study and research in the Netherlands.
Founded in 1636, Utrecht University is one of Europe’s leading research universities, recognized internationally for its high-quality, innovative approach to both research and teaching. It is at the forefront of developments in interdisciplinary knowledge in the areas ranging from biochemistry and biophysics to human rights and cultural studies. The University offers 47 Bachelor’s degree programmes and 175 Master’s degree programmes (88 of which are taught in English) in 8 faculties which cover the areas of Art and Humanities, Social and Behavioral Sciences, Law, Economics and Governance, Geosciences, Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, and Science.
CUHK was established in 1963 with a special mission ‘to combine tradition with modernity; to bring together China and the west’. CUHK is a comprehensive research-oriented university, one that distinguishes itself from all other local institutions by its Chinese cultural heritage, its bilingual and multi-cultural tradition, and its unique college system. CUHK has always had extensive connections with prestigious institutions of higher learning worldwide. Throughout this academic year, the University will be welcoming some 1,000 students from around the world on bilateral exchange arrangements, making the campus a melting pot of culture, ideas and friendships.
