[date]21 May 2008[/date]
[title]An Exhibition of the Special Collection in CUHK Libraries
- Gao Xingjian: Literature and Art[/title]
As one of the events of the “Gao Xingjian Arts Festival” co-presented by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Consulat General de France in Hong Kong and Macau, the University Library System (ULS) at CUHK will present the “Gao Xingjian: Literature and Art” exhibition. The opening ceremony of the exhibition will be officiated by Dr. Gao Xingjian at 2:00 p.m. this Friday (23 May). The exhibition will display materials collected or donations received by the Gao Xingjian Repository of the ULS. These materials include monographs, magazines, journal articles, photographs, manuscripts, posters and paintings. Highlights of the exhibition include part of the manuscript of SoulMountain, paintings donated by Dr. Gao, and the translations of SoulMountain and One Man's Bible in different languages.
During the opening ceremony, a book launch and signing ceremonies of Dr. Gao Xingjian’s new book On Creation, and the English translation of Of Mountains and Seas will take place at 2:30 p.m.
The Gao Xingjian Repository, a part of the special collections in the ULS at CUHK, was started with a research grant the ULS obtained from the Research Grants Committee together with Professor Gilbert Fong of the Translation Department at CUHK and the Chinese University Press in mid-2003. According to the proposal, the ULS is responsible for developing a website and a collection on Dr. Gao. In the summer of 2004, Dr. Gao donated nearly 300 items from his private collection via Professor Fong to the Repository. Dr. Gao’s donation not only became the core of the Repository and enriched the Library’s collections, it also expedited the establishment of the Repository which was officially opened in December 2004.
Details of the “Gao Xingjian: Literature and Art” exhibition are as below:

Date:
23 May 2008 - 8 June 2008

Venue:
Exhibition Hall, University Library, CUHK

Opening Hours:
10:00 am - 7:00 pm (Mon - Sat)
1:00 pm - 7:00 pm (Sun)
