[date]16 August 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Draws a Huge Crowd to its Carnival to Support the Olympic Spirit and 
Celebrate the 45th Anniversary of the University[/title]
To add fun to the Beijing 2008 Olympic Equestrian Events in Hong Kong and to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the University, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) hosted the ‘CUHK Carnival – In Support of the Olympic Spirit’ on its campus today (16 August). Mr. Lam Woon-kwong, Chief Executive Officer, Equestrian Events (Hong Kong) of the Games of the XXIX Olympiad Company Limited; Mr. Wai Kwok-hung, Chairman of the Sha Tin District Council; Mr. Chu King-yuen, Member of the Tai Po District Council; Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and Prof. K. M. Chan, Chairman, Organizing Committee of the CUHK Carnival and Professor, Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, CUHK officiated at the opening ceremony, signifying the University’s support for Olympism, and at the same time kicking-off the cerebrations for the 45th anniversary.
The CUHK Carnival, which offered a wide array of programmes catering for different interests, proved to be a fun-filled event for the whole family. Besides having a joyful time participating in various activities, visitors also found interest in learning more about the cultural heritage and scientific achievements of the University.
The Carnival showcased the University’s commitment to promoting Olympism, international friendship and culture, in line with the three key themes of the Beijing Olympics, namely, ‘High-tech Olympics, Green Olympics, People’s Olympics’. It featured a variety of sports-related activities, among which was theCUHK Elite Athletes Home Coming Day organized by the Physical Education Unit and the Department of Sports Science and Physical Education. Outstanding sportsmen among CUHK graduates were invited to share their experiences at the Carnival. They included swimmers Ms. Caroline Chiu and Mr. Philip Yee, athlete Mr. Lai Ka-pun, triathlon player Mr. Derwin Chan and badminton player Mr. Yuen Yuen-kin. Winners of the Hong Kong Schools Sports Federation Table Tennis Competition also demonstrated their skills at The Hong Kong Schools Table Tennis Invitation Tournament for the Elite. The highlight of the day was the Soccer Friendly Matches, which took place at the Lingnan Stadium of Chung Chi College right outside the University Station. The first match saw the South China Athletic Association Chairman Invitation Team taking on the CUHK Elite Soccer Team. And in the second one, Yan Chai Hospital Tung Chi Ying Memorial Secondary School Soccer Team, the local secondary school champion, played against the University Soccer Team of CUHK.
The Carnival was equally fascinating for arts and culture lovers who took pleasure in the Mini Concert Series: World of Music organized by the Department of Music, and the art exhibition Heavenly Steeds: Horses in Chinese Art hosted by the Art Museum. Featuring more than a hundred horses in all forms of Chinese art, the exhibits illustrate Chinese artists’ diverse representations of horses in different media over the centuries—a Han bronze horse head, Han period bricks and rubbings of stone carvings with horse scenes, painted pottery horses of the Han and the Northern Dynasties, horses and riders with straw glaze of the Sui, flamboyant sancai horses of the Tang, and also blue and white wares of the Yuan to Qing periods (see attached photos). The popular CU Culture Trail guided tours, conducted in Cantonese, English and Putonghua, were offered every half an hour throughout the day, bringing visitors to picturesque spots and arts and cultural facilities on campus. The Food and Wine Festival, held by the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at Esther Lee Building, soothed gourmet palates in the steaming hot summer day and enlightened them with culinary talks and demonstrations.
In addition, members of the public were attracted to the Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Therapy (SMART) Convention 2008 and related seminars and health checks, which aimed at raising public awareness of health issues and interest in sports. The Hanging Gallery, Piazza Fun Fair outside the University Station served to be a wonderful weekend getaway for families. While children endeavored to win prizes from theHorse Encyclopaedia Exhibition, Crossword Puzzle and the Pony Tail Contest, car lovers leisurely enjoyed themselves at the nearby BMW car show that featured the latest automobile models.
