[date]8 April 2008[/date]
[title]SHKP and CUHK jointly invite
Nobel laureates in Medicine and Economic Sciences to lecture in Hong Kong 
Free tickets available[/title]
Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present the eleventh installment of the widely acclaimed Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures, featuring Professor Eric S. Maskin, 2007 Nobel laureate in Economic Sciences and Professor Erwin Neher, 1991 Nobel laureate in Physiology or Medicine. The lectures will be held on 15 April 2008, and free tickets will be available to the general public.
In the coming lectures, Professor Neher and Professor Maskin will share their scholarship with CUHK staff, students, alumni and members of the medical and commercial sectors. At the first lecture, Professor Neher will present his latest research and introduce the current frontiers in the neurosciences. Whereas at the second lecture, Professor Maskin will give a brief introduction to the theory of mechanism design, for which the 2007 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences was awarded last December.
Both lectures will be broadcast live to local universities, and Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks. It will also be available on the Hong Kong Education City web site for on-line viewing by secondary school students and teachers. Besides, the lectures will also be broadcast live to Peking, Fudan, Shanghai Jiao Tong, Tsinghua, Zhejiang, Nanjing and Sun Yat-sen Universities on the mainland. The broadcast is intended to promote the discovery and sharing of knowledge in the six Nobel Prize categories: Physics, Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine, Literature, Peace and Economic Sciences.
Professor Erwin Neher serves as Director of the Membrane Biophysics Department at the Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie in Gottingen, Germany. He is a Foreign Associate member of the National Academy of Sciences (USA), and of the Royal Society (London). He co-chairs the Managing Board of the European Neuroscience Institute, Gottingen.
Professor Eric S. Maskin is Albert O. Hirschman Professor of Social Science at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, which he joined in 2000. Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Econometric Society, Professor Maskin is a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy and an Honorary Fellow of St. John’s College, Cambridge. He is also an Honorary Professor at Wuhan and Tsinghua Universities. He is Past President of the Econometric Society.
Free tickets will be available to give Hong Kong people a chance to benefit from the distinguished scholars’ insights.
Details of the Lectures:
Date: 15 April 2008 (Tuesday)
Time: 4:15 pm – 5:30 pm (lecture by Professor Erwin Neher)
6:00 pm – 7:15 pm (lecture by Professor Eric S. Maskin)
Place: T. Y. Wong Hall, 5/F, Ho Sin-Hang Engineering Building, CUHK
Language: English
Ticket collection:
Starting 9 April 2008 (Wednesday)

 
Outlets
Opening Hours

1.
Tsim Sha Tsui Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 13/F, Oriental Centre, 67 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 21:00
Saturday: 9:00 – 18:00

2.
Central Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 1/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 20:00
Saturday: 9:00 - 17:00

Tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis – one per person.
Web site: www.cuhk.edu.hk/nobellectures/
Enquiries: 2609 8893
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures were inaugurated in 2004 in conjunction with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The series allows various Nobel laureates to speak to a broad cross-section of the community, to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, professional and entrepreneurial expertise and contributions to humanity. After this, the eleventh installment of the series, 18 Nobel laureates or renowned scholars will have lectured in Hong Kong.
For details of the lectures, please visit the following website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/nobellectures/2008-04/index.html
