[date]28 September 2008[/date]
[title]Top Business Leaders Demonstrate Unfailing Devotion to Nurture 
CUHK MBA Students [/title]
The new class of MBA students of The Chinese University of Hong Kong will learn the ropes from top-notch business leaders in town through the MBA Elite Mentorship Programme, which has been launched for six consecutive years since 2003. Over the past years, successful business leaders, who are also passionate alumni of CUHK MBA and EMBA programmes, have committed to be mentors of the full-time MBA students in sharing real life experience and providing career development guidance to their mentees. Mentors and mentees gathered at Renaissance Kowloon Hotel earlier to kick start on the new phase of the Elite Mentorship Programme.
This year’s MBA Elite Mentorship Programme is recently kicked off with thirty-three alumni serving as mentors for 50 mentees. All of them are Chairmen, CEOs, Managing Directors, Presidents, General Managers of distinguished organizations and multi-national corporations, including internationally renowned banking corporations and accounting firms, prestigious financial institutions and international corporations. (please refer to the attached mentor list)
Professor T. J. Wong, Dean of CUHK Faculty of Business Administration expressed heartiest thanks to the mentors, “Over the years, I am really glad to see that every one of our elite mentors has been generously sharing their life experiences and wisdom, a well as technical expertise and industry knowledge with their mentees.” The new class of mentees also expressed heartfelt thanks to the mentors for their selfless contribution to the Elite Mentorship Programme. They believed that they would be able to learn and advance themselves in professional development and establish human network which are essential for equipping themselves to face future challenges in the business community through these precious and direct interactions with top business talents.
This year, CUHK MBA Programmes have recruited a wide diversity of students from 13 countries/locations around the globe, adding more cultural diversity and unique experience to our students. Another new element for the MBA programmes this year is the launch of a new MBA concentration on Entrepreneurship. In announcing this new initiative, Prof. Wong said “The new concentration once again reinforces our commitment to build a multidimensional programme whereby students with different interests could learn from each other.”
The mentorship programme that forms part of the MBA studies at CUHK gives students the opportunity to benefit from former graduates. With the internationalization of the MBA programmes, CUMBA alumni network will continue to develop and expand into every part of the world.
CUHK’s full-time MBA Programme was launched in 1966, the first of its kind in Hong Kong. This was followed by the part-time MBA Programme in 1977 and the Executive MBA Programme in 1993.
