[date]21 April 2008[/date]
[title]Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of The 10th NPC Professor Cheng Siwei Lectured at CUHK Today[/title]
A 12-member delegation led by Professor Cheng Siwei, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the 10th National People's Congress (NPC), is visiting The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to learn about the latest developments of the University. During the visit, the delegation will meet with academics from the Faculty of Business Administration and the Department of Economics to exchange experience on academic research. Professor Cheng also presented a public lecture entitled “A Situation Analysis of the Chinese Economy” on campus today (21 April).
In the lecture, Professor Cheng shared his insights on the development of the Chinese economy with about 370 CUHK staff, students, alumni and members of the political and commercial sectors. He analyzed how the world economy affects the development of the Chinese economy, and the challenges faced by the Chinese economy and the necessary strategies to cope with such challenges.
CUHK Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J. Lau complimented Professor Cheng for his years of invaluable contributions towards the research work on the advancement of China’s soft science and management. Professor Cheng has also pushed forward the development of venture investment on the mainland, which earned him the reputation of “The Father of Venture Investment in China”. Professor Lau also said, “With the generous help of Professor Cheng, CUHK has been able to strengthen its collaborations with mainland academic institutions remarkably. I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation to Professor Cheng on the behalf of the University, and I hope that the University will be honored with Professor Cheng’s continued guidance and support in the future.”
Professor Cheng is Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), Chairman of the China Democratic National Construction Association (CDNCA) Central Committee and Chairman of China Soft Science Research Association. He is also guest professor of Peking University, Nankai University, East China University of Science and Technology, and South China University of Technology as well as the Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Business Administration of CUHK.
Professor Cheng received a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1984 and an Honorary Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) from Hong Kong Polytechnic University in 2000. He was a member of the Seventh and Eighth National Committees of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and of the Standing Committee of the Eighth CPPCC National Committee. He has served as Chairman of the China Democratic National Construction Association Central Committee since 1996 and as Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the NPC since 1998.
Professor Cheng has published over 10 books includingChromic Salts Technology, Rejuvenating Chemical Industry through Science and Technology, Soft Science and Reform, Large Linear Target Programming and Application, Research in China's Economic Development and Reform and Economic Reform and Development in China, and more than 200 papers at home and abroad. He edited Urgent Research in China's Reform and Development, Venture Investment Practice and some other books. Professor Cheng took charge of the state's key research project and was awarded the first prize for scientific and technical progress by the Ministry of Chemical Industry as well as the second prize for scientific and technical progress by the National Office for Science &amp; Technology Awards.