[date]19 May 2008[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Seventh Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its Seventh Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony today (19 May) on campus. Four distinguished persons who are closely associated with CUHK were conferred Honorary Fellowships in recognition of their significant contributions to the University and the community. To express our deep condolences to the victims in the earthquake in Sichuan, a 3-minute silence in mourning was observed before the commencement of the Ceremony. The four honorary fellows are:
Dr. Dennis Yiu Kwan HUI
Dr. Dennis Yiu Kwan Hui is a distinguished entrepreneur in Hong Kong. He studied Medicine and for a few years practiced in Canada before returning to Hong Kong and managing his family business. Dr. Hui is currently the Permanent Director of Yeung Shing Land Investment Co., Ltd. and the Managing Director of Hui Yeung Shing Memorial Foundation. He is also the Director of Confucius Hall Middle School, and has been serving in various capacities in charitable organizations. His contribution to education is particularly note-worthy. For years, Dr. Hui and his family have been distinguished benefactors of CUHK and New Asia College. They have funded the establishment of the Hui Gallery, and the refurbishment of New Asia Conference Room, the Staff Reading Room in Ch’ien Mu Library and the New Asia tennis court. They have also supported various scholarship schemes and exchange programmes. Dr. Hui became a trustee of New Asia College in 2003.
Professor LEUNG Ping Chung
Professor Leung Ping Chung is an eminent expert in microsurgery and hand surgery. He graduated from The University of Hong Kong in 1966 and received the Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh and the Fellowship of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons in 1970. He was the first recipient of the Doctor of Science degree conferred by CUHK in 1994. The research areas of Professor Leung include surgery, orthopaedics, microsurgery, education, public health, Chinese medicine and Chinese pharmacology. He has received numerous honours, including the OBE in 1995 and the Silver Bauhinia Star in 2002. Professor Leung is a Deputy of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. He has also contributed significantly to CUHK and New Asia College by serving as the Head of New Asia College. He has been the Director of the Institute of Chinese Medicine, CUHK since 2000 and was awarded an Emeritus Professorship of Orthopaedics and Traumatology upon his retirement in 2006.
Professor James C. Y. WATT
Professor James C. Y. Watt is the Brooke Russell Astor Chairman of the Department of Asian Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. He was educated at Oxford University and then studied for four years under Professor Jao Tsung-I at the University of Hong Kong. In 1971, he joined CUHK as the Founding Curator of the (then) Art Gallery (subsequently renamed Art Museum) of the Institute of Chinese Studies. During his time, he laid a sturdy foundation for the Museum to become a world-renowned institution. Professor Watt has rich curatorial experience and extensive scholarship in Chinese and Asian art. He has organized numerous celebrated exhibitions and published widely on topics in Chinese art. Over the years, Professor Watt maintains close connections with CUHK and has made remarkable contributions to the development of the Art Museum by serving as its Honorary Adviser.
Professor YEUNG Yue Man
Professor Yeung Yue Man is a renowned urban geographer and Emeritus Professor of Geography at CUHK. He received a B.A. from the University of Hong Kong in 1962, an M.A. from the University of Western Ontario in Canada in 1966, and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in the US in 1972. He taught, studied international development and carried out research work, and was appointed consultants to various international organizations such as the World Bank and the United Nations University. Throughout the years, Professor Yeung has actively participated in urban planning and development. His achievements have earned him the honours of OBE in 1996 and the Silver Bauhinia Star in 2003. Professor Yeung joined CUHK in 1984 as Professor of Geography and Chairman of the Geography Department. He has also made distinguished contributions to the development of CUHK by serving in various important positions, including Registrar, Head of Shaw College, Director of the Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies and Director of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Development Institute.
