[date]14 May 2008[/date]
[title]SHKP and CUHK Present Distinguished Lecture 
by Nobel Physics Laureate
Free Tickets Available[/title]
Sun Hung Kai Properties and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present again the widely acclaimed Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures on 21 May, featuring Professor Carl E. Wieman, 2001 Nobel laureate in Physics on “Science Education in the 21st Century: Using the Tools of Science to Teach Science”. During the lecture, Professor Wieman will share his scholarship with CUHK staff, students, alumni and members of the political, commercial and education sectors.
As an award-winning educator, Professor Wieman will also meet with tertiary and secondary school students to share his insight on the teaching and learning of science before the lecture.
Guided by experimental tests of theory and practice, science has advanced rapidly in the past 500 years. However, science education which is guided primarily by tradition and dogma has not progressed much relatively. Latest research on learning shows that traditional science classes and exams may fail to be an effective tool to gauge learning progress. In the coming lecture, Professor Wieman will show some of the drawbacks of traditional educational practices and explain how other new practices and technology promise to be a better option. In his analysis, he will also demonstrate how these new teaching practices conform to the findings of cognitive science.
For greater social benefits and better public awareness of the six Nobel Prize categories: Physics, Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine, Literature, Peace and Economic Sciences, the lecture will be broadcast live to local universities, and Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks. It will also be available on the Hong Kong Education City web site for online viewing by secondary school students and teachers. There will also be a live feed to Peking, Fudan, Shanghai Jiao Tong, Tsinghua, Zhejiang, Nanjing and Sun Yat-sen Universities on the mainland to promote academic exchange.
Professor Wieman received his BS from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973 and his PhD from Stanford University in 1977. He was at the University of Colorado from 1984 to 2006 as a Distinguished Professor of Physics. In January 2007, he joined the University of British Columbia as the Director of the Carl Wieman Science Education Initiative (http://www.cwsei.ubc.ca), which aims at achieving departmental-wide sustainable change in undergraduate science education. He has carried out research in a variety of areas of atomic physics and laser spectroscopy. His outstanding contributions to education have also earned him many awards, among which are the National Science Foundation's Distinguished Teaching Scholar Award in 2001, the Carnegie Foundation's US University Professor of the Year Award in 2004, and the American Association of Physics Teachers' Oersted Medal in 2007.
To educate a broad range of students, Professor Wieman has worked on a variety of research and innovations in teaching physics, including the Physics Education Technology Project (http://www.colorado.edu/physics/phet) that creates educational online interactive simulations and studies their effectiveness. He also does research on student beliefs about physics and on problem-solving skills. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and chairs the Academy Board on Science Education.
Free tickets will be available to give Hong Kong people a chance to benefit from the distinguished scholar’s insight. Details are as follows:
Details of the Lectures:
Date: 21 May 2008 (Wednesday)
Time: 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm
Place: T. Y. Wong Hall, 5/F, Ho Sin-Hang Engineering Building, CUHK, Shatin
Language: English
Ticket collection:
Starting 15 May 2008 (Thursday)

 
Outlets
Opening Hours

1.
Tsim Sha Tsui Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 13/F, Oriental Centre, 67 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 21:00
Saturday: 9:00 – 18:00

2.
Central Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 1/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 20:00
Saturday: 9:00 - 17:00

Tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-served basis – one per person.
Public is also welcome to apply for the online registration at http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/nobellectures/2008-05/
Enquiries: 2609 8893
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures were inaugurated in 2004 in conjunction with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The series allows various Nobel laureates to speak to a broad cross-section of the community, to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, professional and entrepreneurial expertise and contributions to humanity. After this, the twelfth installment of the series, 19 Nobel laureates or renowned scholars will have lectured in Hong Kong.
