[date]29 August 2008[/date]
[title]Vice-Chancellor Lawrence J. Lau Shares with Students at Inauguration for Undergraduates[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held the Inauguration Ceremony for Undergraduates of the 2008 intake yesterday (28 August). Over 1,300 freshmen, including non-local undergraduates and overseas exchange students attended the ceremony.
In his welcome speech at the inauguration ceremony, Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, urged the freshmen to make good use of their time to enrich their university lives, build up social networks, interact with people from different cultures, and broaden their horizons. By doing so, they are equipping themselves to meet the challenges of globalization and the intense competition it entails.
Prof. Lau also shared with the students his secret of learning. Quoting Confucius: ‘In every group of three, I can always find a teacher’, he encouraged them to keep an open mind and be humble because we can always learn something from someone. Prof. Lau also emphasized the importance of skepticism in the quest for truth. Another piece of advice from the Vice-Chancellor was to set priorities and be selective, so that students can focus energy on their goals. When it comes to interpersonal relationships, Prof. Lau asked the freshmen to be honest and tolerant, and keep in mind the Chinese proverb ‘Treat others as you would like to be treated’.
CUHK has been upholding its tradition of serving society and helping those in need. Prof. Lau commended the support rendered by University members to relief efforts for the Sichuan earthquake, and appealed to the students to follow their footsteps. He said, ‘We frequently use our knowledge and skills, time and energy, and resources, and anything else we can offer, to help others. For example, in the wake of the terrible earthquake in Sichuan earlier this year, staff and students from all Faculties of the University offered their expertise to help the region recover. Teachers of the Faculty of Medicine were among the first batch of medical practitioners from Hong Kong to arrive at the affected zone where they took up relief work, operated on the injured, and offered psychological counseling and training to victims, volunteers and relief workers. There was an outpour of concern and donations from our staff, students and alumni. During this disaster we saw the beauty and strength of humanity.’
Prof. Lau gave his welcome in particular to 16 freshmen from Sichuan and pledged to offer support and assistance to these students who have survived the ordeal.
CUHK Admits Outstanding Students Through Various Channels
CUHK admitted over 3,200 undergraduates this year. Many of them have had outstanding performances in public examinations or other areas.
Tsang Man-ho was admitted to the Mathematics programme through the Self-recommendation Scheme. Demonstrating inborn talent in arithmetic, Man-ho completed the HKCEE additional mathematics curriculum in Secondary 2. He took part in the 2005 Asian Pacific Mathematical Olympiad and the 2007 China Mathematical Olympiad, winning bronze in both. This year, he represented Hong Kong in the American Regions Mathematics League (ARML) to compete with over 2,000 of the finest students from all over the world. The Hong Kong team won the division championship at the ARML.
A total of 21 outstanding athletes were admitted to CUHK this year through the Sports Scholarship Scheme. Among them was Yeung Hiu-kwan, who has participated in and won gold medals in various local and international fencing tournaments since 2001. She was a Hong Kong representative at the Young Athletes Olympic Tour in 2007, an exchange tour to commemorate the Beijing Olympics. She will be studying biochemistry at CUHK.
Education without Borders
CUHK is committed to providing a multicultural ecology on campus and students are expected to live and work with young people from different cultures, and to broaden their international exposure. This year, CUHK admitted 254 outstanding mainland undergraduates through the Unified National Colleges Admissions System from 25 provinces and municipalities, and also 50 outstanding overseas students from 45 countries and regions around the world, including the United States, United Kingdom, Portugal, the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Korea, Taiwan and Macau etc. For this academic year, CUHK plans to enrol about 900 overseas exchange students, while around 650 CUHK students will participate in exchange programmes abroad to enhance their international exposure and global perspective.
CUHK attaches great importance to providing pastoral care for students. The Office of Student Affairs and Colleges offer counseling services on personal life, mental health and study to facilitate non-local students’ adjustment to university life. The University and the CUHK Mainland Undergraduate Association jointly organize orientation activities for mainland students every year. During the 13-day programme of the Mainland Student Orientation 2008-09 which ended today, consultation and counseling sessions were arranged by the University with the support of existing mainland students to help new comers to get acquainted with the Hong Kong community and the learning environment in CUHK in order to gear up for their new learning experience.
