[date]18 May 2008[/date]
[title]Inter-school Competition on System Modeling and Optimization[/title]
While the political parties are busy searching for the best way to allocate their party members and resources to different constituencies for the coming LegCo election, a group of secondary school students who have participated in the 3rd Inter-school Competition on System Modeling and Optimization (COSMO 2008) have already identified the best solution for the political parties by means of system modeling and optimization.
Organized by the Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management (SEEM) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the Award Presentation Ceremony of COSMO 2008 was held today (18 May) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Held for the third year, the theme of this year’s competition is the LegCo election. 35 teams, each comprises 2 students from 19 secondary schools, took part in the competition. At yesterday’s finals, each of the 6 competing team presented its report orally and responded to different questions raised by the judges, the other teams and the audiences. The panel of judges reviewed the logic, creativity and correctness of the modeled result, and the students' analytical and language skills. The prizes included the champion, the first runner-up, the second runner-up, the Best Report Team, the Best Presentation Team and the Merit Award. The champion of this year’s competition is Ma Ka Man and Chong Pang Ching from Kwok Tak Sing Catholic Secondary School.
"Our questions are related to our daily lives. Students can learn how to solve these issues using system modeling and optimization techniques and to employ such solutions in real life situations. The awardees will be invited to join the COSMO Summer Camp 2008 in July to experience university campus life. Other activities include seminars, games and competitions related to logistics and supply chain management, as well as company visit," said Dr. NG Chi-Kong, Senior Instructor, Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management, CUHK, who coordinates the COSMO 2008.
Today’s Ceremony was held alongside with the 2008 SEEM Day. Over a hundred secondary school students, parents and teachers attended the event to learn more about the programmes offered by the Department and its latest development. Besides, 2 seminars were held with Dr. Chak WONG, Managing Director of UBS, and Mr. Rendi WANG, President of CSC Shenzhen Enterprise Development Co., Ltd., speaking on the latest development of the financial engineering and logistics industries respectively.
About The Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management
The Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management at CUHK was established in 1991 as the first of its kind among the tertiary educational institutions in Hong Kong. The Department emphasizes an integration of engineering and management that prepares its students to manage scientifically in various functional divisions, industries and government agencies. Over the years, the Department remains a popular choice for students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
Website: http://www.se.cuhk.edu.hk
