[date]8 July 2008[/date]
[title]University, Hospital and Community Partnership
Launch Ceremony of “Caring for Yourself – Managing your Diabetes” Website[/title]
Diabetes mellitus is a global public health problem that requires a demanding and multi-component regimen for disease management and health maintenance. Ongoing community support is vital to enhance diabetes self-management. In view of this, the Nethersole School of Nursing of the Faculty of Medicine at the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), in collaboration with the Nursing Division of the New Territories East Cluster, Housing Authority have established the “Caring for Yourself – Managing your Diabetes” website.
Incorporating multimedia technologies, graphics, videos and audio effects, the website (http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/med/nur/caring/dm.html) aims at providing diabetic clients and their carers with relevant, valid and accessible information to enhance self management.
The site includes 35 video clips related to diabetes care such as the causes, signs, symptoms, treatment of diabetes, blood glucose checking, oral medication and insulin therapy, common devices used for taking insulin, tips for injecting insulin, sick day management, travel tips, diabetes support groups, dispelling myths, exercise and health, healthy lifestyles and tips to maintain health.
The videos, produced in Cantonese with Chinese subtitles, were developed by nurse specialists, university academics, physicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists, dietitians, dentists, podiatrists, registered nurses, and members of diabetes support groups. The content validity of the learning materials was determined by health care experts, and user satisfaction has been evaluated before the website was completed. A hundred clients (with a mean age of 61 years) commented that the information met their needs. They enjoyed viewing the videos and learned a lot from them. Most of the clients said they would use this type of learning materials again.
A launch ceremony for the website was held today at the Prince of Wales Hospital. Professor Fok Tai Fai, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK; Dr Fung Hong, Cluster Chief Executive of the New Territories East Cluster, Hospital Authority; Miss Lily Chung, Cluster General Manager (Nursing) of the New Territories East Cluster and Professor Diana Lee, Director of the Nethersole School of Nursing, CUHK officiated at the ceremony.
