[date]12 September 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK Business Student Awarded 2007 Rhodes Scholarship[/title]
Ms Shelley Zhang Tianyu, a graduating Integrated BBA student of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, has beaten 51 students from different local universities to become the Hong Kong Rhodes Scholar this year. She is the seventh CUHK student who received this prestigious award in the past ten years, as well as the eleventh student and the first mainland student studying in CUHK to receive the award since the scholarship was established in 1986.
Shelley is a student from Chung Chi College with a major in business administration. She will be leaving for the United Kingdom in September to continue her studies in MSc in Financial Economics in Oriel College at Oxford University.
Being an intelligent girl with an excellent command of English, Shelley demonstrated a very strong academic record which has earned her numerous scholarships, such as the Citigroup Exchange Scholarship and BOCHK Scholarship. During her studies at CUHK, Shelley has participated in a wide range of student activities, including Chung Chi College Mentor Programme and the Summer Study Abroad Programme which offered her an opportunity to attend the summer school of Cambridge University in 2004. She has also served as the Captain of the College Tennis Team. Being a courageous lady, Shelley always takes initiatives and enjoys facing challenges. She has been actively involving in voluntary services in both local and overseas communities. She also possesses good sense of humour and an open mind to accommodate others’ opinions.
Shelley said being selected as the Hong Kong Rhodes Scholar this year was a great honour to her, “I am very fortunate to have the opportunity to study at CUHK and enjoy a very fruitful experience in the past four years of university life. The University has provided me with excellent environment and unparalleled learning opportunities to acquire knowledge and develop my ability. The international connection of mainland universities is still in the initial stage while the links between CUHK and other overseas universities are already well-established. As a CUHK student, I am able to gain more international exposure through overseas exchange, summer study abroad programme as well as mingling with international and diversified student bodies on campus.”
“I am very proud to represent Hong Kong in receiving this scholarship. I must thank the Faculty of Business Administration and the Chung Chi College for giving me all these precious opportunities and the continuous encouragement and support from my teachers and classmates. I have a strong interest in finance and I wish to come back and develop my career in the banking industry after my study at Oxford. Hong Kong is particularly attractive to me given its mature financial markets and international practices in financial services.”
The Rhodes Scholarship was established after the death of Sir Cecil Rhodes in 1902, and was originally allocated to students from the Commonwealth countries, the United States and Germany. Hong Kong was later included in the list of countries and the first Rhodes Scholarship in Hong Kong was awarded in 1986. Each year, the Rhodes Scholarship selection committee comprising professors of local universities and renowned persons in the society selects one student with excellent academic achievements, outstanding personality, good physical vigour, active participation in community service and strong leadership to be the scholarship recipient. The selection process is a very strict one in which applicants have to go through several rounds of individual interview and group discussion, and to dine and interact with the committee members. They have to be admitted to the Oxford University as well before receiving the scholarship. Starting from this year, the scholarship is sponsored by the Lee Hysan Foundation which will provide the awardee an invaluable opportunity to study in the Oxford University through a full sponsorship of traveling expenses, school fee, accommodation and living expenses of around HK$300,000 per year.
