[date]9 September 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK at Innovation Festival 2007[/title]
The Innovation Festival will be held from 14 to 18 September at Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. As one of the main exhibitors, The Chinese University of Hong Kong will display a series of latest technology breakthroughs. With a space of 350 square meters, the CUHK’s booth is divided into six zones, including Magic Mirror Corridor, Care for Environment, Health Care, Wireless Communication, Education Technologies and State Key Labs, displaying over 20 research projects.
Professor Wong Kam-Fai, Associate Dean of Engineering and Director of Centre for Innovation and Technology said, "Each zone displays breakthrough technologies in its field. They are useful to our daily lives. We have also prepared interactive games and demonstrations to help the public to understand the applications of the technologies."
1. Omni-directional Hybrid Electric Vehicle
Aiming to reduce pollution and save energy, the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, CUHK has developed the Intelligent Omni-directional Hybrid Electric Vehicle (IOHEV). The vehicle employs proprietary technologies developed by CUHK. The hybrid car is the first in the world to travel on four-independently-controlled wheels. It can move in lateral directions and make 360-degree turn without any displacement. In busy and narrow streets like Hong Kong, parking or making U-turn with this car will be easy.
2. Mobile Airbag for elderly
Among Hong Kong’s aging population, as many as 4,000 elderly suffered from fall-induced hip fracture each year, inducing the need for medical expenses of hundreds million dollars. Faculty of Medicine and Faculty of Engineering collaborated to develop a lightweight airbag safety system designed specifically to tackle this problem.
The motion sensor device embedded in the system is capable of distinguishing between falls and common daily-life movements. When a fall is detected, the airbag will be triggered instantly to cushion the elderly and reduce the risk of injury. Elderly wearing the equipment would be protected from the impact by the airbag which is triggered instantly upon the fall.
3. Magic Mirror Corridor
The Magic Mirror Corridor is a must-go zone for those who have never been to CUHK campus. The magic is based on several technologies developed by the Faculty of Engineering; including augmented reality, automatic segmentation and tracking tools for real-time video and face recognition etc. Visitors can tour the beautiful landscape of CUHK and the landmarks of the four colleges, or even take a glimpse at the popular cuisines served in the canteens. You may also come and check your new faces in our magic mirrors and see if you like them.
