[date]28 September 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK Students Complete Global Internship Programme 
Whose Participating Countries Span 5 Continents[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a certificate presentation ceremony today for 182 students who had participated in its Global Internship Programme. Built on the many years of success of the China Career Development Award Programme and the Overseas Internship Programme, the Global Internship Programme was launched last year to provide students with diverse internship and cultural exchange opportunities.
With the continuous support of Drs. Richard Charles and Esther Yewpick Lee Charitable Foundation, The Hongkong Bank Foundation and The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the programme provided opportunities for 182 students to do summer internships lasting 6 to 12 weeks in major mainland and overseas cities. Among them, 123 students interned at various state-run, Hong Kong-funded and multinational enterprises in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Xian. The remaining 59 students did their internships in overseas cities, including Melbourne, Sydney, Toronto, Vancouver, London, Dublin, Orlando, Old Delhi in India and Kapsowar in Kenya.
This year’s internship programme covered a wide spectrum of industries, including medical services, logistics, property management consultancy and agency services, accountancy, auditing, media, information technology, insurance, banking, telecommunications, energy, tourism, trading and promotion.
The Global Internship Programme has been warmly received by many countries and organizations. Representatives of the Consulates-General of Australia, Canada, Ireland, the UK and the USA, chambers of commerce, government units of Beijing, Shanghai and Xian, the Liaison Office of The Central People’s Government in the HKSAR, and a number of internship organizations attended the ceremony to show their support.
“To enrich the learning experiences of our students and to provide them with cross-cultural learning opportunities, we have been providing different local, mainland and international internship opportunities for our students throughout the school year instead of just in summer,” said Acting Vice-Chancellor Prof. Kenneth Young at the ceremony.
CUHK has long been committed to providing its students with all-round education. To excel in a globalized world, students must be equipped with global vision, appreciation and respect for different cultures, and the ability to communicate with people from a wide array of cultural backgrounds. The Global Internship Programme provides a valuable opportunity for students to broaden their horizons and gain a deep understanding of their motherland and the world.
There have been about 1,800 interns in total since the inception of the China Career Development Award Programme in 1997. The participating organizations include 153 Hong Kong and multinational corporations as well as 63 state-run enterprises.
