[date]16 October 2007[/date]
[title]Four Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong will confer honorary doctorates on the following four distinguished persons at its Sixty-fourth Congregation to be held on Thursday, 6 December 2007, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, the promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Professor Dale W. Jorgensonis the Samuel W. Morris University Professor of Harvard University, the former President and Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association, and a Director of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Foundation, Inc. (USA). The University will confer upon Professor Jorgenson the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his excellent contributions in economic theory and practices, and his generous offering of expertise and advice to the Chinese University over the years.
The Most Reverend Dr. Kwong Kong-kit, Peter, the Archbishop Emeritus of the Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui, was the first Chinese Bishop and then the first Archbishop and Primate of the Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui. The University will confer upon Dr. Kwong the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the development of education and social services in Hong Kong, as well as his generous support rendered to Chung Chi College and the Chinese University over the past decades.
Dr. the Honourable Tung Chee-hwa, GBM, the Vice-Chairman of the Political Consultative Conference of the People’s Republic of China, was the first Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) and former Chancellor of the Chinese University. The University will confer upon Dr. Tung the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his remarkable contributions to Hong Kong’s smooth transition in China’s resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, his dedicated service and able leadership as the first Chief Executive of the HKSAR, as well as his generous support for the development of the University through his wise counsel and encouragement.
Mr. Alex K. Yasumotois an eminent entrepreneur, property developer and philanthropist. Mr. Yasumoto has been keen on promoting international exchange among the young people of Hong Kong, China as a whole, Japan and other places of the world. The University will confer upon Mr. Yasumoto the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his distinguished contributions to the enhancement of academic development as well as international and cultural exchange programmes of the University.
