[date]20 September 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK Welcomes Chancellor of University of Aberdeen Lord David Wilson[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong welcomed a long-time friend – Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen, also better known in Hong Kong as a former Governor of Hong Kong - Lord David Wilson to the campus today.
Lord Wilson was accompanied by the Principal Professor Duncan Rice and other senior officials of the University of Aberdeen. Chinese University senior management gave the delegation an update on the University’s development. Lord Wilson was most impressed by the University’s research and teaching accomplishments in the last two decades since his role as Chancellor at the Chinese University. He was particularly interested in the new School of Law, the University’s plans to strengthen its collegiate system and reversion to a four-year curriculum.
As a scholar on China Studies, Lord Wilson had spent much of his time during his stay at Hong Kong at the Chinese University’s Universities Service Centre for China Studies. The Centre is hailed as the “Mecca for China Studies” and serves academics from all over the world to engage in the study of contemporary China. A group of some twenty students had the opportunity to meet face-to-face with Lord Wilson at the Centre and engage in a fruitful dialogue with him. Lord Wilson gave wise advices to students who raised various questions, including those concerning the identity of the Hong Kong people, European Union and Scotland; globalization of the Chinese language; and the competitive edge of Hong Kong in view of China’s growing economy. One student was particularly excited to see Lord Wilson again as she recalls her encounter with him at the age of four in a drawing class.
The Chinese University has a strong affinity to Lord Wilson who is not only its former Chancellor from 1987-1992, but also a scholar on China Study and a bridge between China and the West. Lord Wilson was also conferred the honorary degree by the Chinese University in 1995.
The University of Aberdeen was established in 1495. It is Scotland's third oldest university and the fifth oldest in the UK. With approximately 13,500 students, and over 3000 staff, the University of Aberdeen is at the forefront of teaching and research in divinity, law and medicine. The two universities have an active agreement to exchange students since 2005, and are working on other joint project including in the area in medicine.
