[date]23 January 2008[/date]
[title]Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow Programme 2007/2008
Chung Chi College
The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff members as well as students, the Visiting Fellows Programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong.
In the past 25 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields such as Professor C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the Mainland; and Professor Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University, were invited to visit the College for several weeks as the College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows.
This year, the College is very privileged to have invited Professor Benjamin M.W. Tsui from the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) in USA to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2007/2008. Professor Tsui is a Chung Chi graduate of Physics in 1970. He is currently the Director of the Division of Medical Imaging Physics and also a Professor at the Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Environmental Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering of JHU. Professor Tsui is a Fellow of several professional societies, including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE) and the Institute of Physics (IOP). During the visit from January 20 to February 2, 2008, Professor Tsui will be meeting College staff members and students in a series of activities.
The Annual Education Conference of the College to be held at 9:15 a.m. on Saturday, January 26, 2008 in C.K. Tse Room of the College is the highlight event among activities of Professor Tsui’s visit to Chung Chi. Professor Tsui will address on the theme “Advances and Challenges in Contemporary Biomedical Sciences” together with three other guest speakers, namely, Professor Edwin C. Hui, Professor of Medical Ethics and Director of Medical Ethics Unit, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong; Professor Kang Phee Seng, Professor, Department of Religion and Philosophy and Director, Centre for Sino-Christian Studies, Hong Kong Baptist University; and Professor He Mingliang, Associate Professor, the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases, CUHK. Professor Mary Waye, Professor, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Director, The Croucher Laboratory for Human Genomics, CUHK, will be the moderator of the Conference. This academic event is open to the public. For more details, please visit the website of the Conference: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/.
