[date]22 February 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Art Museum Exhibition to Showcase 
Rich Daoist Art Collection in China[/title]
An exhibition entitled “The Studio and the Altar: Daoist Art in China”, jointly organized by the Hong Kong Taoist Association, the Centre for the Studies of Daoist Culture and the Art Museum at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be held starting tomorrow (23 February) at the Art Museum, CUHK. About a hundred pieces of precious art objects will be featured in the exhibition, many of which have never been on display outside of China. Mr. Qixiao Fei, Associate Director of the State Administration for Religious Affairs of the People’s Republic of China; Mr. Yuan Bingdong, General Secretary of China Taoist Association; Professor Kenneth Young, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Professor Jao Tsung I, Wei Lun Honorary Professor of CUHK; Professor Kristofer Schipper, Director of International Sinological Institute of Fuzhou University; Mr. Tong Wai Ki, Chairman of the Hong Kong Taoist Association and Mr. Lee Wang Tsi, Chairman of Fung Ying Seen Koon and board member of the Centre for the Studies of Daoist Culture officiated at the opening ceremony today. About a hundred guests from the cultural and religious sectors, and lenders from Mainland China attended the ceremony to celebrate this rare event in Hong Kong.
Dating from the Han to the Qing dynasties, the artefacts featured in this exhibition are selected from the collections of the Beijing Baiyunguan, the Guangdong Provincial Museum, the Foshan Municipal Museum, and the Art Museum of CUHK as well as from Hong Kong private collections. This comprehensive exhibition includes Daoist artworks in a wide range of media, ranging from portraits of immortals, bronzes, porcelain, wood carvings, to calligraphy, rubbings, Daoist scriptures and ritual manuscripts. There are paintings and calligraphy by scholars on Daoist practices or principles, as well as portraits of immortals that shed light on popular religious life. There are even funeral and ceremonial objects attesting to the religious concerns and rituals of Daoism. The exhibits will hold appeal for both the general public and critical viewers.
Daoism, a religion indigenous to China, has its origin in the ancient yin-yang and wu-xing theories, philosophical thinking related to Huangdi and Laozi, local cults, immortal worship, and divination. Emerging in the Eastern Han dynasty, organized Daoism has had a rich history and many followers.
As a belief that permeates every aspect of Chinese life, Daoism not only forms the core of Chinese religious thinking, it also plays an important role in the development of traditional Chinese culture and art. Daoism is among the major inspirations and resources of Chinese culture and art creation.
The Hong Kong Taoist Association actively promotes Daoist culture. The exhibition is a concluding event to the Luotian Dajiao (the grand offering), held last year. This exhibition hopes to demonstrate the interaction between Daoism as a Chinese indigenous religion, and Chinese culture throughout the ages, so viewers can have a better understanding of Daoism and Chinese culture through Daoist art.
“The Studio and the Altar: Daoist Art in China” will be held at the Art Museum, CUHK from tomorrow to 11 May 2008. Admission is free. All are welcome. Details are as follows:
Opening hours: 10:00 am to 5:00 pm daily (including Sunday, closed on public holidays)
Enquiries: 2609-7416
Website: www.cuhk.edu.hk/ics/amm
