[date]13 February 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK’s Law Library Named After Dr Lee Quo Wei[/title]
In appreciation of the significant contributions made by Dr the Honourable Lee Quo Wei to The Chinese University of Hong Kong since its inception, CUHK named its Law Library the Lee Quo Wei Law Library. The Naming Ceremony was held on 26 January at the University Library and CUHK was most honoured that Dr and Mrs Lee Quo Wei attended as guests of honour.
Dr and Mrs Lee performed the commemorative plaque unveiling for the Law Library. They were accompanied by Dr Edgar Cheng, Chairman of the University Council, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor, Dr Colin Storey, University Librarian and Professor Mike McConville, Director of the School of Law. The Ceremony was attended by over a hundred guests who are members of the Lee Family and friends and members of CUHK. Among them were Dr the Honourable Simon F. S. Li, Dr Thomas T. T. Chen, Professor Yang Chen-ning, Dr Anthony Neoh, Dr David W. K. Sin, and Former Vice-Chancellors Professor Charles Kao and Professor Ambrose King.
Dr Lee was the founding treasurer and participated actively in the establishment and development of the University. He served as Chairman of the University Council from 1982 to 1997. Under his capable leadership, the University has grown from strength to strength. He has continued to give his support and contribute to the University as a life member of the Council after his retirement in 1997.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J. Lau expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Dr Lee for his long and distinguished service to the University. He said at the Ceremony, “Dr Lee's outstanding leadership and utter devotion have been indispensable for the rapid growth of the University. His extensive connections have helped us raise huge sums from the local community to sustain the University's continuous development. Dr. Lee himself has also time and again made most generous donations to the University.”
“One major gift of his was for the establishment of our School of Law, which subsequently came into being in 2005 and admitted its first batch of students last September. The donation has been used to endow a chair professorship, to set up a law library, and to enhance resources for teaching and research. Indeed our law school owes its solid foundation to his munificence and warm-hearted support. We at The Chinese University cannot thank Dr. Lee enough for all that he has done for us.” He added.
The Director of the School of Law Professor Mike McConville praised the great gift Dr Lee has given to the School, “Libraries are at the heart of education, and a Law Library represents the very life of a Law School. For law students and teachers, a library is not a luxury but necessity. Provides not only the tools of the trade, but enables students to gain access to the great legal minds of the past. By so doing, it guides them in their learning and inspires them to emulate those who’ve gone before and perhaps to make their own contribution to learning in the future.”
Ms Wendy Lee, the daughter of Dr and Mrs Lee gave her remarks at the Ceremony. She said, “My father cherishes The Chinese University as much as his children, if not more. He cares about the development of the University and its programmes and will do whatever he can to support the University. He was delighted to learn about the launch of the School of Law, an idea first mooted when he was Chairman of the University Council. My father is extremely gratified to see such an excellent and vibrant School opening on a very solid foundation, as well as the high quality of its staff and students.”
The Lee Quo Wei Law Library, located on the 3/F and 4/F of Tin Ka Ping Building, serves the legal information needs of the Law School and the wider University Community. The Library holds approximately 57,000 volumes and 298 print serial titles, and provide access to 1,833 electronic law journals. There are 25 electronic legal databases available to students and staff. In addition to seating for over 100 in various group and individual configurations, there are 6 group study rooms, an Information Commons and a research area fitted out with 43 PCs. Wireless LAN is available throughout, and professional librarians are ready to offer assistance to users.
