[date]10 March 2008[/date]
[title]2008 Hang Lung Mathematics Awards
Nuture Young Talents in Developing Their Potential[/title]
Hang Lung Properties, The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, and the Department of Mathematics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) are pleased to announce the details of the 2008 Hang Lung Mathematics Awards.
Hang Lung Mathematics Awards was founded in 2004 by Mr. Ronnie C. Chan, Chairman of Hang Lung Properties, and Professor Shing-Tung Yau, world-renowned mathematician and Fields Medalist. Held for the third time, this biennial mathematics research competition aims to stimulate creativity and encourage intellectual discovery in mathematics and science among secondary school students in Hong Kong.
Members of the Scientific Committee which govern the Hang Lung Mathematics Awards believe that this competition can encourage innovative ideas and cultivate an independent learning environment in Hong Kong. Under the supervision of a school teacher, each team designs a mathematics project, carries out research and submits a project report, which will be evaluated by the Scientific Committee. The final stage, which will adopt the style of a doctoral degree defense, and comprise a public presentation of the research project followed by a closed-door inquiry session, will be held on October 21, 2008. The winners will be announced at the awards presentation on October 22, 2008.
The Scientific Committee, comprising top mathematicians from around the world, evaluates the submissions according to criteria commonly adopted by academic journals in selecting articles for publications. Chaired by Professor Yau, the Scientific Committee for year 2008 comprises Professor Tony F. Chan of the National Science Foundation of the U.S., Professor John H. Coates of Cambridge University, Professor Benedict Gross and Professor Wilfried Schmid of Harvard University, Professor Stanley Osher of the University of California, Los Angeles, Professor D.H. Phong of Columbia University and Professor Hung-Hsi Wu of the University of California, Berkeley. Professor Yau says, “I am extremely excited that so many eminent mathematicians have agreed to come to Hong Kong to adjudicate the Hang Lung Mathematics Awards. Their involvement and enthusiasm are great tributes to the caliber of students we have here in Hong Kong.”
Short-listed teams will have the opportunity to meet with members of the Scientific Committee as well as a delegation of officials from leading universities in the U.S. such as Harvard, Brown and other Ivy League universities. As the Chairman of the Scientific Committee, Professor Yau deeply appreciates the enthusiasm shown by the world-renowned mathematicians and academics for this competition.
Hang Lung Properties provides HK$2 million in funds for the Awards, of which HK$1 million is designated as scholarship grants for the winners and the remainder for supporting research, a mentorship system for participants, the adjudication process and administration costs. Up to eight awards will be presented to research projects that meet the highest academic standards in terms of research methodology and originality. The eight awards are: one Gold Award of HK$400,000; one Silver Award of HK$200,000; one Bronze Award of HK$100,000; and five Honourable Mentions of HK$60,000 each. In addition, each winning school may nominate a teacher to receive a Tuition Scholarship for a Master of Science (M.Sc.) Programme in Mathematics valued up to HK$200,000, to be granted by the Department of Mathematics at CUHK.
Hang Lung Mathematics Awards has extended the registration deadline to March 15, 2008. For more information, please visit the website: http://hlma.math.cuhk.edu.hk/.
