[date]9 January 2007[/date]
[title]World Authority in Contemporary China Studies Ezra Vogel
Lectured on Sino-Japanese Relations[/title]
The Universities Service Centre for China Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and CUHK-Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation Asia-Pacific Centre for Chinese Studies co-organized The Third Annual GSOC to be held from January 8 to 12, 2007 (five days) in CUHK. More than 80 Ph.D students from all over the world will participate the seminar and present their papers. This seminar will be highlighted by the public lectures given by eight distinguished China scholars who will come for the Centre’s International Advisory Committee meeting. Prof. Ezra VOGEL, the Henry Ford II Professor of the Social Sciences Emeritus of Harvard University gave a lecture of “Sino-Japanese Relations: Ups and Downs” today at 5:00pm. In this lecture, Professor Vogel talked about the ups and downs of Sino-Japanese relations from the visit of Deng Xiaoping to Japan in 1978, the successes of the bilateral relations in the 1980s, the reasons for the fall in the 1990s, the problems facing the relations since 2001, and the possibilities for a revival.
The other lectures are:

Speakers
Titles

Prof WU Jinglian, Development Research Center of the State Council, China
The Trend of China’s Macro-Economy (In Chinese)

Prof. Jean OI, Stanford University, U.S.A.
The Impact of Feigaishui and Fiscal Problems in Townships

Prof. Jae Ho CHUNG, Seoul National University, Korea
Walking on Two Legs: My Experiences of Research and Publication

Prof. Deborah DAVIS, Yale University, U.S.A.
Divorce Disputes over Property

Prof. Akio TAKAHARA, University of Tokyo, Japan
The Complexity of Japan-China Relations: Its Present and Future

Prof. Pierre LANDRY, Yale University, U.S.A.
The Diffusion of Legal Institutions in China

Prof. LAU Puiking, Hong Kong Polytechnic University
The Evolving Function of the National People’s Congress System

The 28 panels of various topics and round table discussions will be chaired and discussed by these speakers and other international and local scholars, including Professor Andrew Walder, Professor Isabelle Thireau, Professor Gao Hua and Professor Lin Yunhui.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong is committed to consolidate a premier international centre of Chinese Studies in Hong Kong. CUHK has a long and unique bilingual and multicultural tradition. There are several hundred scholars from a wide disciplines of subjects engaging in projects pertaining to China. The University has the Institute of Chinese Studies, Universities Service Centre for Chinese Studies, Hong Kong institute of Asia-pacific Studies, Asia-Pacific Institute of Business, Centre for East Asian Studies, Faculty of Arts, Faculty of Social Science, and CUHK-CCK Foundation Asia-Pacific Centre for Chinese Studies.
Since early 1960s, a fair number of China scholars have visited the Universities Service Centre for China Studies, conducting documentary research and writing up their Ph.D. dissertations. Thanks to its rich collections and liberal platform of intellectual cross-fertilization, the Centre has become an extremely stimulating research environment for those graduate students who have later become eminent scholars all over the world.
Universities Service Centre for China Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and CUHK-Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation Asia-Pacific Centre for Chinese Studies will co-organize an annual Graduate Seminar on China (GSOC) and provide assistance and facilities to those participants who wish to stay at the Centre before or after the Seminar for the purpose of furthering their research. The GSOC is designed to 1) Promote research on contemporary China; 2) Exchange among Chinese and overseas young scholars in the field; and 3) Enhance the capability and broaden the horizon of Ph.D. students in contemporary China studies.
