[date]1 November 2007[/date]
[title]Professor Joseph Sung appointed as Head of Shaw College of 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Professor Sung Jao-yiu, Joseph as Head of Shaw College of the University with effect from 11 February 2008, for a term of four years, succeeding Professor Ching Pak-chung who has served as College Head for a term. Professor Ching will continue to be Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University after completing his term as College Head.
Professor Joseph Sung is currently the associate dean of the Faculty of Medicine and chair professor of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics of CUHK. Professor Sung received his medical degree from the University of Hong Kong in 1983. He also garnered the Hong Kong Medical Association Prize in the same year. In 1989 he was awarded a Croucher Foundation Fellowship to study microbial ecology in Canada where he obtained his PhD at the University of Calgary in 1991. In 1997, he was conferred the degree of Doctor of Medicine by CUHK. Professor Sung joined the Faculty of Medicine of CUHK in 1992 and was promoted to the rank of Professor of Medicine and Therapeutics in 1998.
Professor Sung’s research interests include gastrointestinal bleeding, H. pylori and peptic ulcer, viral hepatitis and cancers of the digestive system. His study on viral genomics and carcinogenesis was awarded by the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) and the Area of Excellence (AoE) of the University Grants Committee. In 2003, Professor Sung led his medical team to conduct a series of studies on the clinical and epidemiological aspects of the SARS coronavirus.
Professor Sung’s achievements in medical service and research have won him numerous honours and awards (see appendix). His outstanding contributions during the fight against SARS were particularly impressive to the Hong Kong community.
“My greatest satisfaction in working in an academic institution comes from being able to interact with young and talented colleagues and building a team of internationally renowned clinicians/scientists in Hong Kong. It is my long-cherished opportunity to share my life experience and values with students,” said Professor Sung.
He has served as president of the Hong Kong Society of Digestive Endoscopy and the Hong Kong Society of Gastroenterology, and vice president of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine and vice president of the Hong Kong College of Physicians. Professor Sung is a foundation fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine and the Hong Kong College of Physicians. He is also a fellow of the Royal Colleges of Physicians in London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, the American College of Gastroenterology, American Gastroenterological Association, and an honorary fellow of the Royal Australian College of Physicians and the Royal College of Physicians of Thailand.
A prolific medical scientist, Professor Sung has published over 430 full scientific articles in top journals and has reviewed more than 15 prestigious journals.
Honours and Awards of Professor Joseph Sung:
‧John-Vallence Owen Prize for Young Investigator (1988)
‧MacFadzean Award for Young Investigator of the Hong Kong College of Physicians (1993)
‧Hong Kong College of Physicians &amp; Royal College of Edinburgh Joint Meeting: Best Paper of the Year (1994)
‧8th International Workshop for The European Helicobacter Pylori Study Group (Edinburgh): Best Original Paper (1995)
‧4th United European Gastroenterology Week ( Berlin): Young Investigator Award (1995)
‧Hong Kong College of Physicians Annual Scientific Meeting: Best Paper of the Year (1995)
‧10th Asian-Pacific Congress of Gastroenterology: Young Investigator Award (1996)
‧Outstanding Staff and Team Award of Hospital Authority, Hong Kong (1998)
‧Leader of the Year 2001: Innovation and Technology by Sing Tao Daily and Hong Kong iMail, Hong Kong (2001)
‧Eminent Scientist of the Year 2003 of the International Research Promotion Council (2003)
‧Asian Hero Award of TimeMagazine (2003)
‧Distinguished Award for Scientist and Medical Profession in the Fight Against SARS by RTHK and Ming Pao, Hong Kong (2003)
‧Leader of the Year 2003: Community and Public Affair by Sing Tao Daily and Hong Kong iMail, Hong Kong (2003)
‧Vice Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award of CUHK (2003)
‧Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowship of Croucher Foundation (2004)
‧Silver Bauhinia Star by Government of HKSAR (2004)
‧Cheung Kong Achievement Award by Ministry of Education of China and Li Ka Shing Foundation (2006)
‧State Scientific and Technological Progress Award (second class award) of the State Council of the People 's Republic of China (2007)
