[date]27 January 2008[/date]
[title]SHKP-CUHK Tin Shui Wai Family Mental Health Campaign Closing Ceremony[/title]
Sponsored by Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP), the Family and Group Practice Research Centre of the Department of Social Work of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and ELCHK Tin Shui Wai Integrated Youth Service Center co-organized a Family Mental Health Campaign to improve the mental health of individuals and families in Tin Shui Wai from October 2007 to January 2008. Six different activities were held during the period with over 10,000 individuals participating. These included an opening ceremony, red packet design competition, family mental health exhibition, educational talks, free clinical consultation service and the Family Ambassador Project. A closing ceremony was held today (27 January) to conclude the project.
Mr. Fung Pak Yan, Deputy Director (Services) of the Social Welfare Department (SWD) said at the closing ceremony, “In 2008, the SWD will join hands with non-government organizations (NGOs) to provide six types of new social services for Tin Shui Wai. Various NGOs will also launch schemes to enhance the mutual supportive network among the residents of Tin Shui Wai’s public housing estates.”
Prof. Joyce Ma, Department of Social Work at CUHK, outlined the effects of the Family Ambassador Project. “A total of 50 family ambassadors, all residents of the district, received training offered by CUHK in the past two months. They promoted the importance of family mental health to about 300 friends and neighbours, and assisted over 150 residents in using community resources. This shows that the project harnessed the energy of the community and turned it into social capital.”
One of the family ambassadors, Mrs. Fung shared her experience as a volunteer. “I met a single mother with three daughters, who was very stressed all the time. I invited her to my home to vent her frustrations. I also taught her to open a fund account to manage her money. I encouraged her to open up and make use of community resources. Her daughter recently graduated from college and it made her very happy.”
Mr. Samuel Ngai Kong Yiu, Executive Director of ELCHK said, “The campaign had the support of different sectors such as commerce, education and social service in its promotion of the mental health of individuals and families in Tin Shui Wai. But the participation of community leaders and residents of the district had been the most important in the creation of a caring and supportive community.”
A DVD entitled “Healthy Family”, produced by CUHK, was distributed to the public at the ceremony. The DVD contains three stories about how different families cope with changes and adversities at different stages of their lives. It also contains a short talk by Prof. Joyce Ma on the meaning and the significance of family mental health.
