[date]8 January 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Professor Xu Yangsheng Elected Member of Chinese Academy of Engineering[/title]
Prof. Xu Yangsheng, Professor of Mechanical and Automation Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), has recently been elected member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) in recognition of his magnificent and ground breaking achievements in the fields of engineering science and technology.
Born in 1958, Professor Xu is a native of Shaoxing, Zhejiang province. A world-renowned expert on robotics, he obtained his BS and MS from Zhejiang University in 1982 and 1984 respectively, and his PhD from the University of Pennsylvania in U.S. Prof. Xu was a faculty member at the Robotics Institute, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, from 1989 to 1997. He joined CUHK in 1997 and was chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering until 2004. He is now Professor of Mechanical and Automation Engineering.
Prof. Xu has been working on the problems and systems related to space robotics and intelligent control. He has made significant contributions to the design, control and dynamics of space robots, as well as the development of zero-gravity research facilities. A staunch contributor to the advancement of intelligent control systems in China’s space technology, Prof. Xu has initiated and participated in the research and development of relevant systems. He has also committed himself to the research and development of dynamic stable systems, automatic learning of human control strategy, wearable intelligent interface, and omni-directional hybrid electric vehicle. He has published over 270 papers, 3 monographs, and 1 edited work.
Prof. Xu was elected academician of Euroasian Academy of Sciences in 2001, fellow of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for his ‘contributions to the design and control of space robots and dynamically stabilized systems’ in 2003, a corresponding member of the International Academy of Astronautics and member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) in 2007.
CAE membership is the highest academic title in engineering science and technology in China. It conducts its election of new members biennially and the election result of 2007 was announced on 29 December. Among 484 eligible nominees 33 new members were elected with two Hong Kong scientists on the list. Including Prof. Xu, CUHK has a total of 2 CAE members (another one being Prof. Samuel Sun), 5 Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) members, 4 CAS members of foreign nationalities and 8 Academia Sinica members.
