[date]8 January 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK Faculty of Business Administration Invites Mr. Zhang Jianguo,
President of China Construction Bank to Speak on “The Liberalization of Banking Industry in China – Impacts &amp; Opportunities”[/title]
The Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong is pleased to invite Mr. Zhang Jianguo, President of China Construction Bank to deliver a talk titled “The Liberalization of Banking Industry in China – Impacts &amp; Opportunities” on 11 January at the CUHK campus.
Mr. Zhang Jianguo has been the President of China Construction Bank since July 2006. He was Vice Chairman of the board of directors and President of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. from June 2004 to July 2006. He also held prominent positions in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and the People’s Bank of China. Mr. Zhang received a master’s degree in Economics from Tianjin College of Finance and Economics in 1995.
Prof. Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration said, “The CUHK Faculty of Business Administration is honoured to have invited Mr. Zhang Jianguo, President of China Construction Bank to visit CUHK. This is a truly valuable opportunity to have him share his expertise and insights with our students, professors, alumni and the business sector etc. in person. We always strive to strengthen our exchanges with the business sector, such as inviting them to serve as guest speakers or professors. With the tremendous support and guidance from Mr. Zhang, I am sure we will have a profound understanding and insight of the banking industry in China, a topic which is very hot and relevant to us. It might also become a successful case study in our business programmes to be learnt by the students. We sincerely hope that there will be more exchange and cooperation between the China Construction Bank and our Faculty in the near future.”
As a pioneer in the reforms of the China Banking Industry, China Construction Bank (CCB) became the first among the four largest commercial banks in China to complete joint-stock restructuring in 2004. In 2005, CCB introduced Bank of America and Temasek Holdings as strategic investors, and was listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. After its successful listing, CCB has implemented a wide array of effective reforms and innovations and has become the most competitive bank in mainland China with the strongest capabilities in marketing, risk control, customer service and profitability. The reforms of CCB are widely recognized in China and overseas. The Bank was named the "Bank of the Year'' in China in 2005 by The Banker magazine. In addition, CCB became the first H-share constituent of the Hang Seng Index on September 11, 2006.
In November 2006, CCB secured the fourth position in the “2006 Asian Banks Competitiveness Ranking” initiated by the 21st Century Business Herald, who have invited the Faculty of Business Administration of the CUHK and Guanghua School of Management of Peking University to conduct the survey. As the position was the highest among all mainland Chinese commercial banks, CCB was named the most competitive commercial bank in the Chinese Mainland.
The talk will be held at 4 pm on 11 January at Sin Wai Kin Hall (LT1) of the Esther Lee Building of the CUHK. Media representatives are cordially invited to attend and report.
