[date]10 January 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK Launches the 1st JD/MBA Double Degree Programme in Asia[/title]
CUHK announced today the launch of the first JD/MBA Programme in Asia. This new programme, which is jointly offered by the School of Law and Faculty of Business Administration, is also the first cross-disciplinary postgraduate double degree programme in Hong Kong.
The JD/MBA programme brings to Asia, for the first time, an articulated postgraduate double-degree combining law and business leadership. Leveraging the synergy between legal and business training, the programme is specially designed to equip graduates to play a leadership role in both the business and various public sectors including government, community service, law enforcement, education and media.
In sharing the mission of this double degree programme, Prof. Stephen Hall, Co-ordinator of the Juris Doctor Programme said, “The integration of the JD and MBA programmes at CUHK represents a professional and academic opportunity unparalleled anywhere else in Asia. It will also make an important contribution to Hong Kong’s strengthening role as a highly-skilled gateway between China and the wider world.”
Through reciprocal recognition of coursework, the JD/MBA programme will allow students to complete both Juris Doctor (JD) and the Master of Business Administration (MBA) in a shorter period of time, reducing the overall study load by 20%. Students who would like to continue pursuing a career in the legal profession may also choose courses leading them to the entry eligibility for PCLL programme.
Prof. Michael Ferguson, Associate Dean, Graduate Studies, Faculty of Business Administration said, “In view of the increasingly important role of China in the world economy and Hong Kong’s unique competitive edge as a gateway to China, the JD/MBA programme pays great emphasis on China focus with dedicated courses on China Business and mainland Commercial Law. Equal emphasis will be given to international business and economics to equip our students with strong global sense and international perspective.”
The synergy of combining legal and business training is, in fact, widely appreciated among young professionals. A full-time MBA student of the University, Mr Justin Woo who is a lawyer before starting his MBA studies this year thought that it is worthwhile to take a short break in his career life to acquire additional training in business, “As a legal practitioner, it is crucial to understand a client’s business in order to act in the client’s best interest. Similarly, as a businessman, it is important to have sufficient legal knowledge to safeguard his business interests. Business training will definitely help boost my professionalism and widen my choice in future career development.”
Ms Erica Chan and Mr Vincent Leung are currently part-time JD students of the University, both of them have already possessed high-level business qualification of Executive MBA and have acquired significant achievements in their business career. In the press conference, Erica shared her views in the additional benefit of JD training to her career, “The JD programme equips me with the professional knowledge that enhances my competitiveness in the dynamic business world.”
Vincent reassured legal training synergizes with his business background brought him valuable new skillsets and insights, “Although traditionally law and MBA are two distinct and separate fields, my newly acquired legal skills complement the full spectrum of business knowledge and management skills provided in the Executive MBA program. In my opinion, future leaders that the JD/MBA programme grooms will have a definite edge in the increasingly competitive environment”.
The JD/MBA double degree programme could be completed in 3 years of full-time study or 5 years of part-time study. Application deadline will be 31 March, 2007. For further details, please visit the JD/MBA webpage: www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk/mba/program_jd_jm.htm
