[date]8 January 2008[/date]
[title]CUHK Scientists receive State Scientific and Technological Progress Award[/title]
The Gastrointestinal Research Group of the Faculty of Medicine at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) won the 2007 State Scientific and Technological Progress Award (SSTPA) second-class award for its achievement and innovation in the treatment of peptic ulcer bleeding. The National Office for Science and Technology Awards in Beijing presented the award to Professor Joseph Sung, Chairman, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics and Director, Institute of Digestive Disease CUHK today (8th January 2008).
The SSTPA second-class award was conferred on the project entitled "Innovative non-surgical treatments of peptic ulcer bleeding", carried out by Prof. Joseph Sung, Prof. James Lau, Prof. Francis Chan, Prof. Enders Ng, Prof. Philip Chiu and Prof. Lee Yuk-tong of the Faculty of Medicine, and former Dean of Medicine of CUHK, Prof. Sydney Chung.
The research work of the team led by Prof. Sung has led to major advancements and new medical standards in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease which is a major threat to human health. With the development of novel non-surgical treatment of ulcer bleeding and pioneering the use of anti-bacterial treatment in curing peptic ulcers without acid suppression, the peptic ulcer bleeding mortality rate has dropped from 10% to 4.4% over the past two decades and the need for surgery, blood transfusion and hospital stay, as well as ulcer occurrence and relapse, have been reduced.
The State Science and Technology Awards (SSTAs) are highly prestigious awards in the science and technology fields on the Mainland, aiming to reward citizens and organizations that have made outstanding contributions to scientific and technological progress. Under SSTAs, SSTPA is to be awarded to individuals working in science and technology and who have made outstanding contributions in the implementation of technology development projects and public welfare projects.
Over the years, a total of 8 CUHK professors have received the State Natural Science Awards (SNSA). Prof. Henry Wong, Prof. Wu Chi and Prof. Jimmy Yu of the Department of Chemistry, and Prof. Dennis Lo of the Department of Chemical Pathology received the SNSA second-class award, Prof. Thomas Mak of the Department of Chemistry and Prof. Tony Lee of the Department of Information Engineering received the SNSA third-class award, while Prof. Chan Hsiao Chang and Prof. Patrick Wong of the Department of Physiology received the SNSA fourth-class award.
