[date]6 December 2007[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 
64th Congregation for Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 64th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees today. Dr. the Honourable Donald Tsang, Chancellor of the University presided at the Congregation.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong conferred honorary doctorates on four distinguished persons, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, and the development of the University. They are: Professor Dale W. Jorgenson, the Samuel W. Morris University Professor of Harvard University, and a Director of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Foundation, Inc. (USA); The Most Reverend Dr. Peter Kwong Kong Kit, the Archbishop Emeritus of the Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui; Dr. the Honourable Tung Chee Hwa, GBM, the Vice-Chairman of the Political Consultative Conference of the People’s Republic of China, and the first Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; and Mr. Alex K. Yasumoto, an eminent entrepreneur and philanthropist.
Dr. the Honourable Tung Chee Hwa was conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Professor Dale W. Jorgenson, The Most Reverend Dr. Peter Kwong Kong Kit and Mr. Alex K. Yasumoto were each awarded the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa.
At the Congregation, besides the four honorary doctorate degrees, a total of 6,277 degrees were conferred. These included 8 Doctor of Medicine degrees, 214 Doctor of Philosophy degrees, 3 Doctor of Education degrees, and 3,283 postgraduate students received their Master’s degree (including the first batch of 2 Juris Doctors and 56 Masters of Laws from the School of Law). 2,769 were awarded Bachelor’s degree which included 437 Bachelor of Arts, 541 Bachelor of Business Administration, 68 Bachelor of Education, 363 Bachelor of Engineering, 4 Bachelor of Medical Sciences, 149 Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery, 133 Bachelor of Nursing, 26 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 30 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 530 Bachelor of Science and 488 Bachelor of Social Science.
