[date]18 January 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK and Zhejiang University 
Conclude Collaboration Agreements and Open Joint Laboratory on Natural Products and Toxicology Research[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Zhejiang University (ZJU) signed collaboration agreements and opened the Joint Laboratory on Natural Products and Toxicology Research on 15 January 2007. Four collaboration agreements were renewed or signed to maintain the long-term academic partnership between the two major universities of China. Professor Zhang Junsheng, Chairman of ZJU Development Committee, Professor Yang Wei, President of ZJU led a 16-member delegation to CUHK.
CUHK and ZJU renewed their university-wide collaboration and student exchange agreements to strengthen research co-operations as well as academic and student exchanges. They also agreed to establish the Joint Laboratory of ZJU and CUHK on Natural Products and Toxicology Research and the Joint Centre for Advanced Photonics Research of CUHK and ZJU.
The Joint Laboratory of ZJU and CUHK on Natural Products and Toxicology Research takes the initiatives to build up a database of natural drugs and biotoxins and to develop new drugs to treat major diseases like cancers and viral infections. Professor FUNG Kwok Pui, Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry of CUHK, and Professor WU Ping, Director of the Institute of Natural Drugs and Biotoxins of ZJU, are directors of the joint centre.
The universities also intend to establish the Joint Centre for Advanced Photonics Research of CUHK and ZJU. CUHK and ZJU are strong in the area of photonics. The field of advanced photonics features a great R &amp; D potential, in functional capabilities as well as in novel applications and contributes to virtually every scientific and engineering discipline.
CUHK and ZJU have established long-term partnership. The Joint Research Centre for Biomedical Engineering was established in 1999. Student exchanges began in 2003.
Zhejiang University, founded in 1897, is one of the top-ranking comprehensive research universities on the mainland. It is also a key institution listed in the “211 Project” and “985 Plan”. Agreements between the universities represent CUHK’s close partnership with a national leading university. The joint centres will excel in medical and scientific research and serve as crucial platforms for extending their achievements to benefit the wider Chinese community.
