[date]24 April 2007[/date]
[title]CU Engineering Launches Weblog for Admission Enquiries[/title]
Weblogs or blogs, once conceived as unimportant ramblings particularly by teenagers, are now widely regarded as the most effective online communication tool. Passionate bloggers from kids to CEOs are all writing their own blogs for different purposes. We now have a new blog, “The CU Engineering Admission Blog”, in town here at the Faculty of Engineering of the Chinese University of Hong Kong which targets students with enquiries concerning admission to the Faculty.
What makes the Admission Blog a must-go destination for JUPAS students? First of all, the Admission Blog is a collaboration among all Professors in the Engineering Faculty, making it a reliable and authoritative source of information for students. Secondly, the blog is dedicated for answering students’ admission enquiries with no academic jargons. Wondering what is the difference between Computer Science and Computer Engineering? What exactly is Information Engineering? The blog is there to provide authoritative answers.
“Many students choose to post their questions to popular forums, yet the responses often convey mixed messages with little valuable insights. An official blog provides a sustainable and organized communication channel between students and our faculty. We hope that students who are interested in engineering would become well-informed of their choices after visiting our blog.” said Professor Wong Kam-Fai, the Associate Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
If you have any questions to ask, simply send an email with your name to blogger@erg.cuhk.edu.hk. Once the Professors receive your questions, they would post the answers on the blog directly, with the possibility to follow up further by emails. Students can be confident that the answers on the blog are much more reliable when comparing to the random answers they get from different forums. Website: http://www.erg.cuhk.edu.hk/admission/blog

For the tips on choosing a suitable blogging platform, Professor Wong said there are both paid and free platforms that include packages like files and photos storage. The storage of free package is usually quite limited and does not allow personal domain name. Also, web gurus who are familiar with web design and expect to have control over the layout of their blogs should also be reminded to check if the platform would offer any customization interface in the service package. Finally, the nature of the blog is also important. If the blog is not personal but allow multiple authors, like the CU Engineering Admission Blog, users should pay attention to the number of authors permitted per blog. For example, the popular blog hosting Xanga.com would only permit one author per blog, whereas the other platforms like Wordpress.org and Blogger.com would allow multiple authors.
