[date]15 June 2010[/date]
[title]Third Opinion Poll on 2012 Constitutional Reforms[/title]
Summary
The third telephone survey was conducted from 8 to 11 June 2010, and successfully interviewed 1,020 respondents aged 18 or above. The results of statistical analysis were weighted according to the Hong Kong population statistics in the end of 2009 published by the Census and Statistics Department. The first and second polls were done and results released in January and February 2010 respectively.
The third opinion poll witnesses for the first time comparable percentages going for and against the Government's proposal on the 2012 constitutional reforms. The latest percentage of respondents supporting the Government's proposal is 46.9% (50.8% and 51.2% in the first and second poll respectively), and those not supporting is 41.9%. Such further divided positions have been anticipated by the research team in previous releases as it was put "the Government lacks a very strong foundation to push forward the current proposal." In fact, only 31.7% of respondents agree that the current proposal would be one step forward in Hong Kong’s democratization (40.3% in previous two polls).
The respondents again have divided positions on functional constituencies. More than half (54.6%) of respondents expect the functional constituencies to be abolished upon the arrival of universal suffrage, and the sooner the better. However, a significant minority (33.8%) of respondents still prefer keeping the functional constituencies.
Panel on Constitutional Reforms
Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies (HKIAPS)
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Panel Members:
Prof. Stephen W. K. CHIU, Associate Director of HKIAPS and Professor, Department of Sociology
Prof. CHAN Kin-man, Department of Sociology
Prof. Wilson Wai-ho WONG, Department of Government and Public Administration
Prof. MA Ngok, Department of Government and Public Administration
Mr. CHOY Chi-keung, Department of Government and Public Administration
