[date]17 May 2010[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Ninth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its Ninth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony today (17 May) on campus. Six distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK were conferred Honorary Fellowships in recognition of their significant contributions to the University and the community. They are:
 
Professor Lee Pui-leung Rance
Renowned sociologist Professor Lee Pui-leung Rance is Emeritus Professor of Sociology at CUHK. Professor Lee contributed significantly to the development of sociology in mainland China and has close ties with CUHK and Chung Chi College. As a Chung Chi College graduate, Prof. Lee started teaching in CUHK after receiving his Ph.D. from the USA and has served the University for 41 years. During his 10-year tenure as Head of Chung Chi College, Professor Lee has made remarkable contributions towards campus improvement works; uniting teachers, students and alumni; promoting the College’s tradition of open-mindedness and liberal arts education. Professor Lee is now Master-Designate of Wu Yee Sun College and driving devotedly the advancement of the College. He served in many important positions at CUHK, including as member of the University Council, member of the Senate and Dean of the Faculty of Social Science. His extraordinary leadership and dedicated efforts have been pivotal to the development of CUHK.
 
Mr. Leung Ying-wai Charles
Mr. Leung Ying-wai Charles is an eminent entrepreneur, philanthropist and distinguished alumnus of CUHK. He is the Chairman and Managing Director of Hong Kong China Development Holdings Ltd. Mr. Leung founded two listed companies in Hong Kong during his earlier years. He has provided staunch support and actively participated in public and community services in the areas of education, medical care and social concern, making significant contribution to Hong Kong and mainland China. He co-founded the medical charity Operation Concern which recruits Hong Kong medical professionals as volunteers to travel to the poor remote rural areas in China to provide free medical treatment. He has also made significant donations to support various medical activities and the construction of related facilities. Mr. Leung is currently a member of the University Council of CUHK and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College. He cares deeply for the development of CUHK and New Asia College and strongly supports student development. He funded the establishment of fitness facilities and the Confucius Statue in New Asia Campus. He has also set up the “Charles Leung Education Fund” and “Mr. Charles Leung Scholarships”, and actively participated in the Mentorship Programme of New Asia College.
 
Professor Thomas Chung Wai Mak
Professor Thomas Chung Wai Mak is a distinguished structural chemist. He is currently Emeritus Professor of Chemistry and Wei Lun Research Professor of Chemistry of CUHK. Professor Mak is reputed for his achievements in fundamental research in the areas of crystal engineering, structural inorganic chemistry and coordination network assembly. He is a prolific author, and his publications are regarded as very important contributions and references in chemical crystallography. Over the years, he has made significant contribution towards the development of chemistry research in mainland China by fostering the training of young scientists for the country. He was elected a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2001, and his first PhD student from the mainland was elected as a fellow Member in 2009. Professor Mak has dedicated over 40 years of valuable service to CUHK. He had served as the Dean of the Faculty of Science and Chairman of the Department of Chemistry.
 
Professor Sun Sai-ming Samuel
Professor Sun Sai-ming Samuel is a renowned international expert in agricultural biotechnology and the first scientist to clone a plant gene. He is currently an Emeritus Professor of Biology and a Research Professor of Biology of CUHK. He successfully cloned the first plant gene in 1980 and established himself as the father of plant gene cloning. Professor Sun has been devoted to improving the crop yield and nutritional value of rice with the mission of doing good to mankind. His research achievements have won him international recognitions, including being elected as Academicians of Chinese Academy of Engineering and International Eurasia Academy of Sciences. Professor Sun also facilitated the establishment of the State Key Laboratory of Agrobiotechnology aiming to up-scale agricultural technology and increase agricultural productivity in China. He is a distinguished alumnus of New Asia College and was appointed Founding Master of S.H. Ho College in 2009 and is endeavoring to create an inspirational, multi-cultural and interactive learning environment for its students.
 
Dr. Tam Wah-ching
A philanthropic entrepreneur, Dr. Tam Wah-ching established the Nam Wah Neonlight &amp; Electrical Manufacturing Ltd. in the 1950s and has taken a leadership role in the industry. He received Honorary University Fellowship from The University of Hong Kong (HKU) in 2005. With a commitment to ploughing back into society, Dr. Tam is dedicated to serving the community and making contributions to the mainland and Hong Kong, particularly in the promotion of culture and education. He is a staunch supporter of public welfare and charity works. During the outbreak of SARS, he supported CUHK and HKU in their western and Chinese medicine researches with generous donation. He established the Wah Ching China Education Research Centre for the study of education development in rural China. He has also supported various local tertiary institutions in promoting Chinese culture, founded a secondary school and a hospital in Beijing, and made generous donation to secondary and primary schools in his homeland, Kaiping of China. Dr. Tam has offered unfailing support to CUHK. He set up the Dr. Tam Wah Ching Non-Local Study Awards for students of United College in 2004, and has made distinguished contributions to the development and research activities of the CUHK Institute of Chinese Medicine (ICM) by establishing the International Association of Lions Clubs District 303-Hong Kong &amp; Macau Tam Wah Ching Chinese Medicine Resource Centre for ICM.
 
Professor Wu Weishan
An eminent sculptor, Professor Wu Weishan is President of China Sculpture Academy and Director of Institute of Arts of the Chinese National Academy of Arts, and a member of the Steering Committee of China City Sculpture. He holds a PhD degree and coaches doctoral students. He has made significant contributions to the promotion of Chinese culture through sculpture arts and directing global scholastic discussion on the status quo and the development of sculpture as an art form in China. He has also created over 500 sculptures of historical and cultural world figures such as Qi Baishi, Fei Xiaotong and Queen Beatrix Wilhelmina Armgard of the Netherlands. Professor Wu received many international awards for his outstanding artistic attainment, including the Pangolin Award of the Society of Portrait Sculptors in the U.K., the Recognition Award of the Third Exhibition of City Sculpture in China, and New China City Sculpture Construction Achievement Award. Professor Wu has a long association with CUHK. He was the S.Y. Chung Visiting Fellow of New Asia College and sculpted many important Chinese University figures, for example, the Founding Vice-Chancellor Dr. Choh-ming Li, the Founding President of New Asia College Professor Ch’ien Mu, Professor Yang Chen-ning, Dr. the Honourable Simon Li Fook-sean and Professor the Honourable Jao Tsung-I.
