[date]30 July 2007[/date]
[title]Top Choice for the Top Students:
CUHK Admits the Largest Number of Grade A Students [/title]
CUHK admits half of the top students in Hong Kong 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) repeats its success after admitting the largest number of students in the Early Admissions Scheme (EAS) this year by admitting via the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) half of the students who obtained 5As in HKALE. The other half is spread between two other local institutions. These students are admitted to Global Business Studies (2), Professional Accountancy (1), Economics (1) and Physics (1). Apart from the aforesaid outstanding students, about 44% HKALE candidates with 3As or above are admitted to CUHK. Moreover, the number of students admitted with Grade As in HKALE is 989, the largest among the 9 JUPAS participating institutions.
98% of students admitted are Band A students
CUHK continues to be the top choice for secondary school students. It has made a total of 2,388 admission offers via JUPAS for the 2007 entry. Among them, 2,337 are Band A choice candidates, accounting for 98% of the total number admitted. The programmes with the best admission results include Physics, Economics, Professional Accountancy, Global Business Studies, Sociology, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis, BBA – JD, Pharmacy, Medical Studies (see tables below).
Flexible curriculum and unique college system appealed to students
“We are very pleased with the admission results of this year. CUHK has always been the first choice among top students. In the past two years, half of the 1,000 JUPAS applicants with the best average results opted for CUHK. This year we have been able to attract the most outstanding and exceptional students from among the JUPAS applicants,” said Mrs Grace Chow, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid.
Mrs. Chow said, “CUHK has a top-quality professorial team including Nobel laureates. Our unique college system provides a whole-person education to the students. With more Colleges in the making more opportunities and possibilities would be opened to the students. Our curriculum offers a fine balance between general education and specialisation. The flexible double-degree and double-major programmes developed in recent years have also become the students’ favourite options.”
Mrs. Chow said, “Over the past year, we have on many occasions invited prospective applicants to our campus affording them the opportunities to experience our superior learning environment, quality of teaching and the wide range of courses available.”
Other outstanding students also find their way to CUHK
CUHK also admits many students who are outstanding in non-academic areas including art, music, leadership, and community services. Through the School Principal’s Nomination Scheme and the Self-recommendation Scheme, CUHK admits all the four winners in the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel ISEF) in 2007.
CUHK has awarded conditional offers or bonus points to 277 JUPAS applicants under the School Principal’s Nomination Scheme. 76 applicants with distinguished achievements in non-academic areas are admitted. One of these students is Yau Ka Long, whose “From Waste to Fuel” won the Third Award in Intel ISEF. Another outstanding student admitted to Global Business Studies is Wong Shuk Yan, who was selected as the winner of the Hong Kong Outstanding Students Award, the Hok Yau Club Outstanding Secondary School Student Leader, and the winner of Tuen Mun Outstanding Students Award.
Under the Self-recommendation Scheme, 108 applicants have been awarded bonus points and 59 applicants are admitted. The Top First Place Winner and First Award Winner in Intel ISEF, Chan Ka Kin, is admitted to his favorite programme in Pharmacy. The other two team mates of Yau Ka Long, namely, Kwan Ka Ki and Chiang King Wai, are admitted to Environmental Science and Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis respectively.
20 students awarded sports scholarship
This year, 20 outstanding athletes have been admitted by CUHK through the CUHK Sports Scholarship Scheme. Pang Hok Man, Champion in women 4x100m relay in the Thailand Track and Field Competition who also broke the Hong Kong Amateur Athletic Association Record in 2005-06, is admitted to the Psychology Programme through the Scheme. She was also the first runner-up in women 4x100m relay in the East Asian Games and the first runner-up in 100m in Sabah, Malaysia Athletics Open.
“Apart from the HKALE results, we also place emphasis on non-academic performance,” Mrs Grace Chow supplemented. “Through the School Principal’s Nomination Scheme and other admission channels, we aim at recruiting students who excel in different areas. Students who are outstanding in different disciplines would have the opportunities to learn from each other and maximise their potentials.”
Tables
1. Students by Number of Grade As in HKALE :

No. of Grade As in HKALE
No. of Students Admitted (in %)
Total No. of Students

5A
5 (50%)
10

4A
26 (47%)
55

3A
101 (43%)
237

2. Top 5 Programmes Based on the Results of the Best Applicant Admitted :

Programme / Stream
Score of the Best Applicant Admitted
(Maximum 5.0)

Physics
4.96

Economics
4.96

Professional Accountancy
4.95

Global Business Studies
4.93

Sociology
4.85

3. Top 5 Programmes Based on the Median Results of All Applicants Admitted :

Programme / Stream
Median Score
(Maximum 5.0)

Global Business Studies
4.64

Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis
4.42

BBA - JD
4.35

Pharmacy
4.32

Medical Studies
4.31
