[date]22 May 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK to Establish Two New Colleges — 
C. W. Chu College and Wu Yee Sun College[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is pleased to announce that its Council today approved the acceptance of major pledges totally HK$270 million for the establishment of two new colleges. They are respectively C. W. Chu College and Wu Yee Sun College.
CUHK reaffirmed its commitment to further develop and strengthen the college system in its 10-year Strategic Plan, which was adopted by the Council in January 2006. To cater for about 3,000 more undergraduates upon reversion to a four-year curriculum in 2012, more colleges have to be built. The Council has also approved a set of guidelines for establishing new colleges of small and medium size so that students will have more choice. The University took the view that relatively small colleges would be more conducive to intimate interaction among students and staff, and capable of providing an environment for whole-person education and pastoral care.
CUHK is pleased that benefactors committed to quality higher education share the University’s vision, and have offered donations to help bring these plans to reality. In May 2006, the University Council approved the acceptance of donations from the Morningside Foundation and Morningside Education Foundation, and the S. H. Ho Foundation for the establishment of Morningside College and S. H. Ho College respectively. Morningside College will cater for 300 students while S. H. Ho College will cater for 600 students. Both Colleges will adopt a fully residential and communal dining model.
Today the University Council is pleased to announce plans towards the establishment of two additional new Colleges:
‧Mr. Peter Yip has pledged an initial donation of HK$100 million for the establishment of C. W. Chu College, which will cater for 300 students on a fully residential and communal dining basis.
‧Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Ltd. has pledged HK$170 million for the establishment of Wu Yee Sun College, which will be able to accommodate 600 residential students and in addition up to another 600 commuters.
Missionof the Colleges
The mission of the new Colleges is to foster an intimate and collegial community where students and academic staff learn, share and grow intellectually; to provide an environment for congenial college life and learning for students; to provide pastoral care and whole-person education including general education for students; to broaden and to internationalize the students’ perspective through college formal and non-formal education programmes and overseas exchange. Both Colleges will seek to cultivate among students a commitment to personal responsibility and integrity, as well as the spirit of self-help and helping others, which will lay the foundation for making contributions to society, nurturing of talents for the nation and enriching students’ lives.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, the Vice-Chancellor, said “The Chinese University of Hong Kong takes great pride in its college system, which with its intimate environment for interaction and learning has contributed in very significant ways to the quality of the students through general education and non-formal learning. It is most gratifying for the Chinese University of Hong Kong to receive such strong support from the community for the enhancement and strengthening of its unique college system. I am very encouraged by the overwhelming support, and wish to express the University’s gratitude to Mr. Peter Yip and Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Ltd. for their munificent pledges. With the decision today to establish two additional new Colleges, the University has taken another major step towards its goal of fully accommodating the expected increase in our undergraduate enrolment in 2012. Together with the existing colleges, there will be a spectrum of choice for students to select the type of experience that they prefer.”
Mr. Peter Yip, founder of CDC Corporation, was among the more than 700 scholarship recipients supported by the late Dr. Chu Ching-wen. Mr. Yip said that “All of us who in our youth have benefited from the generosity of Dr. Chu are eternally grateful not only for the monetary support he gave, but more importantly for his mentorship and the selfless example that he has shown. I hope that many will join me in contributing to his memory, in the most fitting way — by helping to establish a college that will advance the cause of higher education for China, a cause so dear to his heart.”
Mr. David Chu, the eldest son of Dr. Chu Ching-wen, and the Chairman of C. W. Chu Foundation Ltd. said, “I am very pleased that the Scholars are following my father’s footsteps in contributing to the cause of higher education. My family is also honoured that The Chinese University of Hong Kong will name a College after my father.”
Founder of Wing Lung Bank Limited, Dr. Wu Yee Sun was a philanthropist who gave generously to education and charitable work in the community. His motto was “Adversity breeds greatness”, and Wing Lung Bank has continued to thrive following his vision of “Progress with prudence and service with integrity”. Dr. Wu Yee Sun and his family and the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation have been staunch supporters of The Chinese University of Hong Kong since the early 1970s. His son Mr. Albert P. C. Wu is a distinguished alumnus of the Chung Chi College of the University. Dr. Michael P. K. Wu, Director of the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation said, “Our late father Dr. Wu Yee Sun never finished school because the family was poor; he felt keenly the vital importance of education in molding personal growth. Therefore he put a lot of effort into education, supporting primary, secondary and tertiary institutions. We are delighted that through establishing Wu Yee Sun College, we would help to cultivate among students a commitment to integrity as well as personal and social responsibility which will lay the foundation for making contributions to society and an enriching life ahead.”
Looking ahead 
CUHK cherishes its college system and the vital roles played by the existing colleges. With the new development, the level of resources for the existing colleges will remain unchanged, and the existing colleges will not be under any pressure to admit more students. The establishment of new Colleges is part of the long-term strategy of the University, an important milestone in the University’s development and testimony to the importance placed on the college system. The University has established a task force to coordinate among the colleges and the University, so that all parties will be able to work together most effectively for the benefit of students.

C.W. Chu College 敬文書院
About Dr. Chu Ching-wen
C.W.Chu Collegeis named in honour of the late Dr. Chu Ching-wen (朱敬文博士) (1906-1996), an industrialist and a remarkable philanthropist who throughout his life supported education in various ways.
From the 1960s to 1980s, Dr. Chu provided scholarships that enabled more than 700 young people from Hong Kong to pursue university education in the United States. He not only provided financial support, but also took a personal interest in the development of these young people, acting very much as a father figure to them. From the late 1980s, Dr. Chu turned his attention to the Mainland, and through the C.W. Chu Foundation (朱敬文教育基金), supported over 30,000 university students, especially in Jiangsu and Anhui. This philanthropic work continues with his children.
Many of the Chu Scholars who studied in the United States, fondly known among themselves as 「朱仔」, have become very successful in different walks of life. Mr. Peter Yip (葉克勇先生), founder of CDC Corporation, has kicked off the fund raising effort to be launched among his fellow Chu Scholars, with an initial personal pledge of HK$100 million for the establishment of a new college at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The Chu family and the C.W. Chu Foundation have graciously consented to the proposal to name the new College after the late Dr. Chu.
Mr. Peter Yip said, “All of us who in our youth benefited from the generosity of Dr. Chu Ching-wen are eternally grateful not only for the monetary support he gave, but more importantly for his mentorship and the selfless example that he has shown. I hope that many will join me in contributing to his memory, in the most fitting way – by helping to establish a College that will advance the cause of higher education for China, a cause so dear to his heart.”
Mr. David Chu (朱恩餘先生), the eldest son of Dr. Chu Ching-wen and the Chairman of the C.W. Chu Foundation, said, “I am very pleased that the Chu Scholars are following my father’s footsteps in contributing to the cause of higher education. My family is also honoured that The Chinese University of Hong Kong will name a College after my father.”
The life of the late Dr. Chu Ching-wen will be a shining example of selfless dedication to the community for the future students. C.W. Chu College will be able to start with a ready network of mentors formed by the many Chu Scholars all over the world.
About Mr. Peter Yip
Mr. Peter Yip is the founder and CEO of CDC Corporation (Nasdaq :CHINA) Under his leadership, CDC was the first successful initial public offerings of an internet company from Greater China to be listed on NASDAQ, opening the door for other Chinese entrepreneurs to list their ventures in the U.S. capital markets. Mr. Yip has over two decades of entrepreneurial and direct investment experience in the U.S. and the Asia Pacific region in which he has co-founded or provided seed funding to a number of successful start-up entities.
In 2000, the Wharton Business School presented Mr. Yip with the Asian Alumni Entrepreneur Award.
Mr. Yip is a frequent speaker at various international conferences and institutions, including the Harvard Business School, Fortune CEO Global Forum, World Economics Forum, M.I.T. Enterprise Forum, United Nations Conference on Science &amp; Technology, and the Nikkei International Conference. CDC Corporation's business model was a case study at Harvard Business School in 1996. He has authored research papers published by Harvard Asia Pacific Review, Nanjing University Press, and the National Science Foundation. He recently co-authored a book titled The China's Century with former Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji, amongst others.
Mr. Yip received his MBA from the Wharton School and his MSEE and BSEE from the University of Pennsylvania. He also holds an associate degree from Vincennes University in Indiana, with a scholarship from C. W. Chu Foundation.

 

Wu Yee Sun College 伍宜孫書院
Dr. Wu Yee Sun (伍宜孫博士), a staunch supporter of education and eminent philanthropist, was a benefactor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and other local tertiary institutions for many years. In 1973, Dr. Wu and his brother donated HK$1 million to CUHK for the establishment of the Wing Lung Bank Chinese Culture Development Fund to support research and publication projects of the Institute of Chinese Studies. For some three decades since, CUHK has continued to receive generous donations from Dr. Wu, the Wu fa mily and the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation for its academic development, particularly in the field of medicine. In the true philanthropic spirit of Dr. and Mrs. Wu Yee Sun, the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation has just pledged another major donation to CUHK for the establishment of a new college on its campus, for which the University is deeply grateful. The college will be named after Dr. Wu as Wu Yee Sun College.
About Dr. Wu Yee Sun
A native of Shun Tak county in Guangdong, Dr. Wu was born in 1904 into a family of great renown. The times were however difficult and family duties made it necessary for him to forego school life at the tender age of 14. The young Wu Yee Sun abided by the motto that says “Adversity breeds greatness”. Thanks to his diligence, immense courage and perseverance in the face of hardship, he was able to overcome many obstacles. In 1933, he and his friends managed to set up the Wing Lung Money Exchange, the predecessor of the present Wing Lung Bank. With a vision to “progress with prudence and serve with devotion and integrity”, the Bank went from strength to strength and became listed in 1980.
Dr. Wu upheld Confucian values and showed filial piety to his parents, loyalty to his friends, kindness to his younger kinsmen, and love for his country. He also spared no effort in serving the community and helping the needy. Inspired by his grandfather and father, Dr. Wu cultivated a keen interest in the art of penjing at an early age. He was especially captivated by the Lingnan style of doing penjing which emphasizes patience, concentration, flexibility and harmony with nature. His accomplishments in this art form won him the accolade of the Sage of Penjing. He applied the same principles and techniques of penjing to the running of his business, which brought him great success. He authored a book entitled Man Lung Penjing, featuring the masterpieces he had produced over the years. Some 10,000 copies of the book were sold for charity and all proceeds donated to support higher education.
In recognition of Dr. Wu’s remarkable contributions to education, the socio-economic growth of Hong Kong, and the promotion of the art of penjing, numerous honours and awards were conferred upon him by both local and overseas institutions, including honorary doctorates and honorary citizenships. In 1997, the Purple Mountain Observatory of the Chinese Academy of Sciences named the Asteroid 3570 after him as the “Wu Yee Sun Star”. Throughout his entire life, however, Dr. Wu firmly believed that fame and wealth were only transitory; what was far more important was leading a simple life, upholding one’s principles, and maintaining a free spirit.
About Mrs. Wu Ho Man-yuen
Born into a family of intellectuals steeped in Chinese culture, the young Ho Man-yuen was well-educated, virtuous, and well versed in Chinese calligraphy and painting. She was also trained as a senior obstetric nurse. After marrying Dr. Wu Yee Sun in 1929, Mrs. Wu took good care of her family, enabling her husband to devote himself to his career. She placed great importance on education and retained her love of learning even in her advanced years. Under her influence, her children and grandchildren also developed a love for knowledge. All of them have completed university education with their own specializations and accomplishments.
About Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited
The Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited was established in 1982 by Dr. Wu Yee Sun to support charitable causes, including the building of hospitals, the establishment of schools and homes for the elderly, the funding of academic research, and the development of his home town. To carry on and further Dr. and Mrs. Wu's philanthropic spirit, the Foundation and the Wu family have continued to make very significant contributions in support of education and community building projects.
