[date]24 July 2007[/date]
[title]CUHK and IBM Cooperate to Boost Youths’ interests in Engineering 
Students spark enthusiasm in Engineers Week[/title]
“Art or Science?” Local students often make their decisions solely based on academic performances, giving little regards to their own interests. According to Professor Wong Kam-Fai, Associate Dean of Faculty of Engineering, CUHK, “This phenomenon demonstrates that students are not getting enough engineering related information from school or extra-curriculum activities. Universities now act as an active channel for delivering engineering education. This is the second year CUHK cooperates with IBM to boost students' interests in engineering. We aim to inform students on how engineering changes the society and encourage them to develop an early interest in engineering.”
The initiatives include the “Engineers Week” held in early July. During the 2-days programme in St Paul's Convent School and Our lady's College, CUHK Professors (Prof. Aaron Ho &amp; Prof Jimmy Lee) delivered talks on “Science and Engineering Inventions that Have Significantly Changed our Lives" to over 400 students, and IBM volunteers guided students through games and competitions focused on application of science and mathematics skills.
“The responses from the girls are overwhelming. The girls keep asking questions and some of their ideas are so innovative that they have never come up in our minds. We believe that the earlier we start to encourage girls in schools, the better the chance that they will develop interests in engineering.” IBM volunteers said. Teachers also found that activities organized by professors and professionals are more convincing and informative.
EX.I.T.E. Camp 2007, the second part of the programme, will be held on CUHK campus starting from 5 August, specially tailored for female junior students to cultivate interests in engineering, this year's camp will reach beyond Hong Kong to include students from Macau and Guangzhou. Over 30 girls will visit laboratories and plants, work out puzzles and compete in games during the week-long camp. All activities are designed to expose them to the fascinating world of technology, and encourage them to pursue science/engineering subjects in the future.
Media contacts:
Sandy Lam, Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2696 1023 Fax : (852) 2603 7327
Email : sandylam@cuhk.edu.hk
