[date]11 June 2007[/date]
[title]SHKP-Kwoks’ Foundation Enables Top Mainland Students from Remote Areas
to attend CUHK[/title]
The SHKP-Kwoks' Foundation supports talented Mainland students in their studies and promotes education on the Mainland. Since 2005, the Foundation has spent HK$6 million to enable top students from remote Mainland provinces to take four-year undergraduate courses at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). Six students who benefit from the Foundation's benevolence this year recently met with SHKP Vice Chairman and Managing Director Raymond Kwok to thank the Foundation for its generosity.
For two consecutive years, the Foundation has subsidized HK$3 million per year for six Mainland students to pursue their studies at CUHK. The amount covers tuition, accommodation and living expenses. The six students receiving the subsidy this year began their studies at CUHK last September. The students were accompanied by CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor Prof. Liu Pak-wai, and Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Registrar Prof. Billy So at their meeting with Mr. Kwok.
The students, Zhou Tianyi from Jiangxi, Jiang Shanshan from Hubei, Jiang Caixia from Zhejiang, Pan Hanjie from Jiangxu, Zhang Dongshan from Shandong and Li Li from Fujian, were active in extra-curricular activities. They were also top achievers in public exams: Zhou Tianyi was Jiangxi’s top arts student of 350,000 candidates; Jiang Shanshan ranked fifth in science among 530,000 candidates in Hubei; and Zhang Dongshan ranked 390 among 710,000 candidates in Shandong.
Mr Kwok encouraged the students to expand their perspective, think globally and engage in mutually beneficial interaction with their Hong Kong classmates. He hopes they will introduce the knowledge they acquire in Hong Kong to the Mainland and contribute to the country’s development and integration between Hong Kong and the Mainland.
The Foundation was set up in 2002 to promote the long-term development of education, culture and heritage protection on the Mainland and has forged alliances with top universities around the world to further this goal. The Foundation also nurtures expertise for the nation by sending talent to world-class academic institutions in Europe and the US to pursue higher degrees and to conduct academic research.
CUHK began admitting Mainland undergraduates in 1998 and has recruited students through the National Colleges and Universities Enrollment System since 2005. This year, it has expanded its recruitment exercise to cover 25 provinces in the country and expects to offer admission to 250 mainland students.
Media enquiries: SHKP’s Fiona Wan at 2828 5103
