[date]18 May 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Re-runs the Nobel Exhibition of Prof. Charles K. Kao[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the exhibition ‘The Lore of a Laureate: A Tribute to Charles Kao, Former CUHK Vice-Chancellor and Nobel Laureate’ in February and March this year. Officiated by Professor and Mrs. Kao at the opening ceremony, the exhibition was found to be very popular with over 20,000 visitors during the month-long period of exhibition. In order to let more people understand Professor Kao’s lifetime of achievements as well as his legendary contribution to fibre optic communication technology, a re-run of the exhibition will be held from 24 May.
During the four-month exhibition period, the Nobel Medal kindly donated by Professor Kao to CUHK will be on display. There will also be six sets of exhibition panels and cabinets showcasing Professor Kao’s outstanding achievements. Video footages of Professor Kao will be shown in the exhibition, including his demonstration of optical communication technology in the 1960s, the Nobel Prize Award Ceremony, the exhibition’s opening ceremony, the ‘Walk with Professor Kao’ CUHK Walkathon, as well as some of the University activities attended by Professor Kao during his vice-chancellorship at CUHK.
The exhibition focuses on six themes:
Professor Kao’s Chronology: Introducing different stages of Professor Kao’s life: from his childhood, education, the birth of fibre optics, how he has led CUHK to excellence, to his receiving international acclaim, and his life after retirement.
The Nobel Prize: Showcasing materials of the Nobel Prize award ceremony and the Nobel Lecture, and congratulatory letters from all over the world.
Relationship with CUHK: Illustrating the significant advancements of the University during Professor Kao’s Vice-Chancellorship. Some related publications and his personal belongings will be shown, such as his open letters to all teachers and students of the University. He is the first Vice-Chancellor of CUHK to issue open letters as a means of strengthening communication in the campus community.
Development of Fibre Optics: Reviewing the history of fibre optic communication, and sharing insights on the emerging technology.
Publications by Professor Kao: Displaying his biography and books on fibre optics and technological development in Hong Kong and on the mainland.
Professor Kao - The Person: Interesting objects about Professor Kao will be displayed, such as his lecture notes and household utensils made of pottery by him, to unveil his artistic talent.
The exhibition will commence on 24 May until 10 September at the Exhibition Hall on G/F of University Library, Main Campus, CUHK, Shatin. All are welcome. Free admission. The opening hours are as follows:
From 24 May to 30 June AND 23 August to 10 September: Mondays - Saturdays: 10:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Sundays: 1:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Public Holidays (16 June and 1 July): Closed  From 2 July to 22 August: Mondays - Fridays: 10:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturdays: 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sundays: Closed