[date]31 July 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph Sung Presents Awards to Distinguished Alumni at the Passing-out Parade of the Hong Kong Police College [/title]
Officiating at the passing-out parade of the Hong Kong Police College today (31 July 2010), Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), presented awards to outstanding graduating officers.  Among them are two distinguished CUHK alumni —Mr. Shum Lap-chi, 2007 graduate of Bachelor of Education Programme in Physical Education and Sports Science, and Mr. Tai Cheuk-yin, 2004 graduate of Bachelor of Business Administration Programme in Professional Accountancy.
 Mr. Shum, winner of the Brian Slevin Trophy, the Baton of Honour and the Commissioner’s Certificate of Academic Merit, graduated as the best all-round inspector.  It is particularly meaningful for him to receive the honours from the Vice-Chancellor of his alma mater. ‘The role of a police inspector is difficult yet stimulating, challenging and rewarding.  The spirit of the ChineseUniversityhas been a pillar of strength in my personal development.  Much inspired by the University’s motto 「博文約禮」(bo wen yueli), I’ll always strive to broaden my intellectual horizons and keep within the bounds of propriety in discharging my duty as an inspector,’ he said.
Mr. Tai received the Silver Whistle and the Commissioner’s Certificate of Academic Merit. ‘Everybody knows that it entails much dangerous work to be a police officer. Yet joining the Hong Kong Police Force to uphold law and order is to me the most challenging and meaningful job. The team-working and management skills I acquired from the all-round education of the ChineseUniversityequipped me well to fulfill the stringent requirements in physical ability, discipline, perseverance and application of legal knowledge during the course of my training at the Hong KongPoliceCollege.  With my knowledge in accountancy, I hope to join the Commercial Crime Bureau to contribute my expertise to the Hong Kong Police Force and to serve the Hong Kongcitizens.’
