[date]8 September 2010[/date]
[title]Ambassador of China to Indonesia Zhang Qiyue Speaks on ‘China’s Foreign Policy and China-ASEAN Relations’ at CUHK Today[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited Ms. Zhang Qiyue (章啟月), former Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson, and Ambassador of the People's Republic of China in the Republic of Indonesia to give a lecture on campus today (8 September) on ‘China's Foreign Policy and China-ASEAN Relations’. Close to 200 CUHK staff and students, members of the political, business, academic and public sectors, and various foreign consuls attended the lecture to benefit from Ambassador Zhang’s insightful analysis.
Ambassador Zhang was born in Beijing, China in 1959. She received her BA at the University of Foreign Studies and later pursued her graduate studies at the United Nations Program for International Organizations and Interpretation.
Ambassador Zhang has had a wide-range of experience in international affairs and multilateral diplomacy. She began her career by working for four years as a simultaneous interpreter for the United Nations, both at its headquarters in New York and Geneva. After joining the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she took part in numerous international negotiations and consultations as member and advisor of the Chinese delegation. Between 1995 and 1998, she served as the political counselor in the Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations.
At the end of 1998, her career came to a new turn. She was appointed as the spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry and remained in that important position for six years. From February 2005 to July 2008, she served as Ambassador to Belgium. She has then been serving as the 9th Ambassador of China to Indonesia from August 2008.
CUHK has been organising the Consuls General / diplomats lecture series since 2005. A number of famous diplomats, including the Consuls General of the USA, UK, Japan, France, Korea, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Italy, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to PRC, and the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC in Hong Kong have delivered lectures on the CUHK campus. 