[date]27 July 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Global Business Student Wins National Grand Championship in ACCA Job Hunting Competition[/title]
Mr. Terrence Pang Tim-yu, Year 1 Global Business Studies student of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), beat 15 finalists to clinch the top prize at the China Grand Final 2010 of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Job Hunting Competition held in Beijing on 17 July.  
Prof. Gordon Cheung, Director of CUHK Global Business Programmes remarked, 'In addition to providing students with essential business knowledge, Global Business Studies emphasizes students’ development of generic capabilities including conceptual, analytical, presentation and teamworking skills. I am pleased with Terrence’s outstanding performance in the competition and glad that all his preparation work has paid off.'
Terrence thanked ACCA for organizing this competition, which he said gave him an opportunity to interact and compete with brilliant students across the country.  He said, ‘I would like to thank my teammates at both the national final and the Hong Kong regional competitions. I was moved by our team spirit. Besides, the competition has had a profound influence on my development. My interviewing skills, teamwork performance and professional knowledge are greatly improved.  I will certainly recommend the competition to my peers.’ 
'Through the Global Business Studies programme and interacting with excellent peers in the past year, I enhanced my competencies and teamworking skills. I’m able to develop synergy with whatever team I am working with. I would like to thank my professors and fellow classmates for their support. I have learned a lot from all of them.’ 
At the China Grand Final, the 15 finalists split into three groups were asked to conduct market analysis on a business case within two hours.  Afterwards, they gave their presentations and answered questions in English.  The judging panel consisted of senior finance and accounting, and human resources professionals from Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, Ernst &amp; Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Shell, Fortune International, Amway (China), Kingdee Software, and TACSEN Management Consultants. The contest calls for a high standard in the demonstration of analytical skills, responsiveness, English language skills, teamwork performance and business acumen. 
This year, 5,581 students from top universities in China participated in the competition, including CUHK, The University of Hong Kong, Tsinghua University, University of International Business and Economics, Beijing Foreign Studies University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, Sichuan University, Southwestern University of Finance and Economics, and Jilin University. The students come from diversed disciplines, ranging from finance and accounting, business administration, software engineering, human resources, to international logistics. The top three winners from the regional rounds held in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Hong Kong made their way to the China Grand Final after passing through stringent selection processes, which included aptitude and English language tests, a mock interview, an employability training camp and the semi-finals. The entire competition lasted over five months. 
ACCA has been organizing the Job Hunting Competition for the last seven years. It aims at helping university students to equip and polish themselves with the desired skills required by today’s employers. It also serves as a communication platform between employers and academic institutions. This year, ACCA offered over 140 internship places to participating students to enable them to understand the real business environment. Employers also benefit by finding the right talent for their corporations.
