[date]23 November 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host Hong Kong Geography Day 2010 this Saturday[/title]
Hong Kong Geography Day is a biennial event which gathers the geography education and research community in Hong Kong, aimingtofoster academic exchange and collaboration between geography-related faculty members and postgraduate students, and to promote geography education in secondary schools. This year, the event will be held atthe EstherLee Building, Chung Chi Campus, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), from 9am to 4:30pm on Saturday, 27 November 2010. The co-organisers are the Department of Geography and Resource Management(GRM)at CUHK and the Hong Kong Geographical Association, with support from the Hong Kong Geographical Information Systems Association.
 Themed New Greater Pearl River Delta: The Path to Sustainability,the event will address and highlight a variety of issues and challenges facing the Greater Pearl River Delta in an era of increasing globalization and rapid growth, with the intent of consolidating what we know and identifying gaps in education and research. The opening ceremony will feature two keynote speakers- Mrs. LAM Cheng Yuet-ngor, Carrie, JP, Secretary for Development of the HKSAR Government, and Professor ZHENG Tianxiang of Sun Yat-sen University. Both speakers will talk about the recent development trends in the Greater Pearl River Delta. The expected attendance is estimated to be around 800 to 1,000 participants, including students and teachers from local secondary schools, graduate students and professors from the three geography departments of the three local universities, and guestsfrom Guangzhouand Macau.  
 Featuring the Greater Pearl River Delta as the backdrop, Hong Kong Geography Day 2010 has a rich programme, including university research seminars, research student poster competition, secondary school talks, GIS Workshop, Geopark fieldtrip, GRM open house, andboard exhibitions by relevant departments of the HKSAR Government(e.g. Planning Department, Buildings Department, Lands Department,Transport Department, Civil Engineering and Development Department, Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department, Water Supplies Department, and Hong Kong Observatory), NGOs and business community(e.g. Esri China Limited and Ocean Park) to display their interrelationship with the discipline of geography. Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou Geography Institute, Guangzhou Normal University, and Geography and Education Research Association of Macauwill send delegates to participate in the Hong Kong Geography Day 2010. In addition, secondary students and teachers will be arrangedto visit two state-of-the-art facilities at CUHK- the Virtual Reality Lab and the Physical Geography Experimental Station.
 For more details of the event, please refer to the attached brochure and location maps.
