[date]19 July 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Department of Psychology and International Test Commission Jointly Organize an International Conference on Testing[/title]
The Department of Psychology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has joined hands with the International Test Commission (ITC) in organizing an international conference entitled ‘Challenges and Opportunities in Testing and Assessment in a Globalized Economy’ from today to Wednesday (19 to 21 July) on campus. The opening ceremony held this morning was officiated by: Mr. Kenneth Chen, Acting Secretary for Education of the Hong Kong SAR Government; Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Prof. Fanny M. Cheung, Chair of the Organizing Committee of the Conference, and Chairperson of the Department of Psychology, CUHK; and Prof. Marise Born, Chair of ITC and Professor of Personnel Psychology of the Erasmus University Rotterdam. The opening ceremony was followed by a state-of-the-art address by Prof. Robert Roe, a renowned scholar from the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands.
More than 400 scholars and experts from world-renowned universities, professional bodies and organizations will present papers at the Conference and share their findings on the cutting edge developments in testing and assessment, and exchange on testing standards and guidelines.
The ITC forms an association of national psychological associations, test commissions, publishers and other organizations, and is committed to promoting effective testing and assessment policies and to the proper development, evaluation and uses of educational and psychological instruments. The seventh ITC conference, the 2010 conference has strong focus and expertise in psychological and educational testing, and provides animated and personal atmosphere in which experts discuss and novices learn about cutting edge research and applications in this field of science.
For more information about the conference, please visit: http://www.itc2010hk.com/index.php or contact Ms. Kitty Lam at 2609-8145 or email to kllam@psy.cuhk.edu.hk.
