[date]21 July 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Public Lecture by Indian Gender Expert Professor Richa Nagar[/title]
Prof. Richa Nagar, Professor of Gender, Women and Sexuality Studies, and Associate Dean for Faculty in the College of Liberal Arts at the University of Minnesota, is invited to be the speaker for the upcoming lecture of the Public Lecture Series on Gender Studies 2010, organized by the Gender Studies Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and sponsored by the Lee Hysan Foundation.
Prof. Nagar is a founding member of Sangtin Kisaan Mazdoor Sangathan (Sangtin Peasants and Workers’ Organization) in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh, India. She has co-authored Sangtin Yatra, and her academic researches on gender, race, and communal politics among South Asian communities in postcolonial Tanzania have resulted in numerous articles and essays. Since 1996, Prof. Nagar’s works have focused mainly on the collaborative efforts that seek to reconfigure the political terrain and processes associated with ‘empowerment’ projects aimed at ‘the poor’.
Her coming lecture on 28 July is titled ‘From Feminist Fieldwork to Collaborative Praxis: Lessons from the Sangtin Movement in India’. Prof. Nagar will focus on her ongoing collaboration with the Sangtin organization in India. This movement of 5,000 rural peasants and laborers began as a collective of nine authors who critically reflected on how caste, class, religion, and gender shape the lives of poor rural women, and shape the internal processes, effectiveness, and limitations of non-governmental organizations that work on their behalf. The lecture will highlight the key moments in this journey, as well as the transformative dialogues triggered by the collaboration among rural and academic communities, NGOs, activist collectives, and donor agencies.
Members of the public are welcome to register for the public lecture at http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/gender/publiclecture.htm. For enquiries, please contact Ms. Lolita Chan of the Gender Studies Programme of CUHK (Tel: 2696-1026; Fax: 2603-7223; E-mail: lolitachan@eservices.cuhk.edu.hk.) Details of the lecture are as follows:

Date:
28 July 2010 (Wed)

Time:
7:30 p.m. – 9:30 p.m.

Venue:
Rm 202, Duke of Windsor Social Service Building, 15 Hennessey Road, Wanchai, HK (Wanchai Metro Exit A2)

Language:
English

Chair:
Prof. Marie-Paule Ha, Associate Professor, Department of History, The University of Hong Kong

