[date]12 July 2010[/date]
[title]The Launch of ‘Thinking About Hong Kong’s Past’ DVD and the Opening of ‘Forget Me Not’ Exhibition at CUHK[/title]
The Launch of ‘Thinking About Hong Kong’s Past’ DVD and the Opening of ‘Forget Me Not’ Exhibition organized by the Centre for Chinese Archaeology and Art, Institute of Chinese Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was held at the University’s Art Museum today (12 July). The ceremony was officiated by Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Prof. Lee Chack Fan, Chairman, Council of the Lord Wilson Heritage Trust; and Prof. Wang Wei, Director, Institute of Archaeology, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
‘Thinking About Hong Kong’s Past’ DVD 
‘Thinking About Hong Kong’s Past’ DVD is a cooperative project undertaken by the Centre for Chinese Archaeology and Art, Audio-visual Division of CUHK and the Antiquities and Monuments Office, Leisure and Cultural Services Department, with support from the Lord Wilson Heritage Trust. In the last ten years since 2001, the team had filmed at a number of historical sites, museums, as well as remote places in Guangdong, Mainland China, under the assistance of almost 70 units. The first DVD project co-organized by the University and the government, it firstly presents the untold story of Hong Kong’s history written by Hong Kong people of the 21st century, revealing the long buried root of Hong Kong people. The DVD will be on sale shortly.
‘Forget Me Not – the historical roots of Hong Kong’ Exhibition
Co-organised by CUHK and the Shenzhen Municipal Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology, the exhibition features the local artefacts that demonstrate the earliest local culture dated to 6,000 to 7,000 years ago. In addition to the first exhibition of the newest discovery of Xiantouling site in Shenzhen, the close relationship between Hong Kong and Shenzhen for more than 7,000 years will be explained for the first time from archaeological and historical views.
The Xiantouling site in Shenzhen was named one of the ‘Six Big Archaeological Discoveries in China 2006’ by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and one of the ‘Ten Big National Archaeological Discoveries 2006’ by the State Administration of Cultural Heritage in 2007. This will be the first exhibition in China to displayfeng (鳳) artefacts from Xiantouling. The same kind of feng artefacts can be found in the Yangtze River and the Pearl River regions including Hong Kong, suggesting that the Hong Kong - Shenzhen region had the earliest feng culture in China.
The opening ceremony of the ‘Forget Me Not – the historical roots of Hong Kong’ exhibition was officiated by Prof. Wang Wei, Director of the Institute of Archaeology, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. It is the first archaeological event he officiates in Hong Kong.
All are welcome. Details of the exhibition are as below:
Exhibition Period: 13.7.2010 – 30.6. 2011
Exhibition Venue: Gallery IV, East Wing, Art Museum, CUHK
Opening hours: Mon to Sun, 10am to 5pm. Closed on public holidays.
Enquiries: 2609 7371
