[date]1 September 2010[/date]
[title]Foundation Stone Laid for Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building at The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The foundation stone laying ceremony was held today (1 September) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) for the Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building. The building was named after the late Dr. K. S. Lo, Founder of the Vitasoy Group and the K. S. Lo Foundation (the Foundation), in recognition of a magnanimous donation of HK$150 million by the Foundation to support the University’s development, including in particular its research in biomedical sciences. Officiating at the ceremony were Dr. the Honourable York Chow, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR Government; Dr. Peter Lo, Chairman of the Foundation; Mr. Winston Lo, Executive Chairman, Vitasoy International Holdings Ltd.; Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; and Prof. Arthur Li, Emeritus Professor of Surgery, CUHK. About a hundred distinguished guests and members of the University attended the ceremony.
At the ceremony, Prof. Joseph Sung expressed his deep gratitude to the Foundation and its Trustees for their exceptional gift and staunch support to the University. One third of the donation will be assigned to establish an endowment fund named the Lo Kwee-Seong Biomedical Research Fund, with annual payouts to be earmarked for supporting biomedical research in agriculture, including research on soybean and other staple foods. Professor Sung addressed the ceremony, ‘In line with the University’s Campus Master Plan in cultivating clustered and zoned development for disciplinary teaching and research activities, we aim at developing Area 39 in phases into a substantial research hub with state-of-the-art research facilities and postgraduate hostels.’ The establishment of the Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building marks a new chapter in the University’s research and development in Area 39.
The building is nine-storey high with a total construction floor area of 18,264 sq. metre, accommodating research laboratories, seminar and meeting rooms, breakout areas or shared research areas, a demonstration laboratory and administrative offices. Equipped with state-of-the-art biomedical equipment, it is hoped that the new infrastructure and the cohesive physical environment of the new building will help facilitate interdisciplinary research all under one roof, and nurture a team of dedicated researchers and students who would become global leaders in their areas of expertise.
Dr. York Chow complimented CUHK on its commitment to providing the highest quality of teaching and research in the areas of medicine, health and bioscience in Hong Kong and the Asia Pacific Region. He remarked that the new Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building will capitalize on CUHK’s edge in biosciences, thereby enhancing Hong Kong’s regional competitiveness in the respect. He also thanked the K S Lo Foundation for setting a very good example on how the private sector can work hand in hand with the Government and the higher education sector to advance the frontiers of biomedical researches for the benefit of mankind.
Dr. Peter Lo pledged a donation of $150 million to CUHK which is the single largest donation ever made by the Foundation since its establishment in 1991. Dr. Lo said, ‘On behalf of the K.S. Lo Foundation, I am happy to pledge the donation of HK$150 million to support the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and in particular its research in integrated biomedical sciences.
The Chinese University has distinguished itself in integrated biomedical research in many aspects. These include research into circulating fetal nucleic acids, Chinese medicine, plant molecular biology and agricultural biotechnology, and cancer research. We are proud to be a partner of the Chinese University in this worthwhile project.’
Mr. Winston Lo added, ‘This year marks the 70th anniversary of Vitasoy, which was founded by my late father who had a vision to develop a nutritious soymilk drink to meet the public needs for better health. My father would be very proud to know that the enterprise he began then still puts public health at the forefront of its business. His personal legacy continues and this donation from his foundation is an important step forward that amplifies his early efforts to prevent diseases caused by nutritional deficiency. I am convinced that with the ongoing research in the areas of integrated biomedical sciences and agriculture, together with the establishment of the new research centre, the food value of soybeans will be further enhanced.’
The late Dr. K.S. Lo was the Founder of the Vitasoy Group and the Foundation. Dr. K. S. Lo, his family and the Foundation have been unwavering benefactors of CUHK since 1970s. CUHK Art Museum has received many valuable antique ceramics and teaware pieces from Dr. K. S. Lo and the Foundation, and conducted research on tea utensils with generous donations from the Foundation over the years. In addition, the Foundation supported the establishment of the Lo Kwee-Seong Research Laboratory of Infectious Diseases and supported medical research on epilepsy surgery. The K.S. Lo Foundation Scholarship Scheme also gave support to CUHK business students.
About K. S. Lo Foundation
The late Dr. Lo Kwee-Seong formed the K. S. Lo Foundation in 1991 with the following missions: to promote vocational and technical education, general education, learning culture and the arts; to give financial assistance for the furtherance of health and relief of poverty and sickness; to promote social welfare and support charity; and to support hospitals, vocational or technical schools, home for the aged and art museums for the benefit of the public.
About Vitasoy
Vitasoy International Holdings Limited was founded by Dr. K.S Lo in 1940 and it is now one of the leading manufacturers and distributors of non-carbonated drinks in Hong Kong. At Vitasoy, promoting consumer well-being is its number one priority. It is achieved through the provision of a variety of high-quality, nutritious beverages and foods that satisfy customers in all markets. With a base in Hong Kong, Vitasoy has production facilities in the Mainland China, Australia, the United States and Singapore, providing consumers in 40 markets worldwide with over 1,000 stock keeping units.
Vitasoy website: www.vitasoy.com
