[date]19 January 2011[/date]
[title]400 Guests Rejoiced at Anniversary Dinner of Shaw College at CUHK
A Series of Events to Celebrate a Quarter Century of Excellence
[/title]
Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its Silver Jubilee Dinner at The Harbour Grand Hong Kong last Friday (14 January 2011), with over 400 guests joining the celebration. Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor cum the fourth Head of Shaw College, was one of the guests. His entertaining talk show ‘From College Head to Vice-Chancellor’ received great applause from the audience. In addition, Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan, Head of Shaw College, and Ms. Florence Hui, an outstanding Shaw alumna, performed classic Cantonese operatic song which enchanted every individual guest. As the under-secretary of the Home Affairs Bureau, Ms. Hui has been keen on promoting the art of Cantonese opera and the Bureau has been facilitating the development of this unique Chinese art by establishing the Cantonese Opera Advisory Committee and Cantonese Opera Development Fund in 2004 and 2005 respectively.
Another remarkable performance in the evening was the Beijing operatic singing presented by Mr. Lee Woo-sing, the first Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Shaw College, Mrs. Lee and Ms. Ge Lan who was a veteran famous star in Hong Kong. Mrs. Lee is a renowned Beijing Opera virtuoso who has received personal training from Mei Baojiu, the son of Beijing Opera maestro Mei Lanfang. She has performed in various Asian cities on many famous scenes of the Mei stylistic school. In a production The Lady General Mu Guiying Leads Her Army to War staged at Zhongnanhai in 1994, Mrs. Lee’s outstanding techniques won critical acclaim from the then national leaders including Jiang Zemin, Zhu Rongji and Li Ruihuan. Ms. Ge was an icon of Chinese musicals during 1950s-1960s. Her most acclaimed work includes Mambo Girl, Sun, Moon and Star and The Wild, Wild Rose. In these films, Ms. Ge's charisma blended with her singing and dancing skills hit the spot every time. Upon her retirement in 1964, she started learning Beijing Opera and engaging in performances.
One of the talented Shaw students, Ms. Pun Nga-man, performed Italian operatic singing which deeply impressed the audience. Ms. Pun was also the second runner-up for youth solo vocal of the Rheingau Music Festival in 2009 and a recipient of the most prestigious award (國星獎) in the vocal category of a national youth science and arts competition in Beijing in 2010. 
In the morning of the same day, Shaw College held its Silver Jubilee Celebration Ceremony at the Shaw College Lecture Theatre with Mr. Peter Wong Tung-shun, Chief Executive Asia-Pacific of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, as the Guest of Honour. Nearly 500 guests including College trustees, donors, teachers and staff, parents, alumni and students joined this joyful event.
In commemoration of its Silver Jubilee, Shaw College has kicked off a series of celebratory events since mid-2010, including the 25th Anniversary Slogan and Logo Design Competitions, Commencement Assembly cum Kick-off Ceremony for Silver Jubilee Anniversary, Lecture Theatre Housewarming Party, Shaw College Alumni Day and Exhibition of Alumni's Memorabilia, Naming of the Yat-sen Hall and Academic Seminar to mark the centenary of Xinhai Revolution, etc. The events will go on until July 2011 when Shaw College will hold its inaugural ‘World Youth Leaders Forum’. In addition, an organizing committee comprising 230 students will stage a series of celebratory activities including a fashion show and a feast for a thousand to spread the jovial atmosphere.
About Shaw College
ShawCollege is the fourth constituent college of CUHK founded by Sir Run Run Shaw in 1986 with his generous donation of HK$110 million. The College motto is Xiude Jiangxue. Since 2008, Shaw College has adopted the slogan, Excellence with a Soul, Leadership with a Heart, to echo the spirit of the motto. The fifth College Head Prof. Andrew C.F. Chan assumed office in 2010 and has been advocating the principles of ‘People-oriented’ and ‘Society-oriented’ and promoting five domains in nurturing students – ‘Personal Development’, ‘Community Service’, ‘China Outlook’, ‘Global Perspective’ and ‘Environmental Concern’.
