[date]12 March 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Signs Framework Agreement with Shenzhen Municipal Government to Establish CUHK Shenzhen Institute[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) signed a Framework Agreement with the Shenzhen Municipal Government today (12 March) on the establishment of the CUHK Shenzhen Institute (the Institute) in Shenzhen. The Institute will nurture talent for Hong Kong, Shenzhen and the Pearl River Delta (PRD) Region, contributing to research and technological advancement, educational reform and the long-term development of China. Ms. Wu Yihuan, Vice Mayor of the Shenzhen Municipal Government and Prof. Xu Yangsheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK were present at the signing ceremony in Beijing.
Prof. Xu Yangsheng thanked the Guangdong Provincial Government and the Shenzhen Municipal Government for their staunch support. He said, ‘We believe it is our duty to take our core educational philosophy and values beyond Hong Kong, and contribute our share to higher education on the mainland. By leveraging on our strengths, we should be able to train future generations of university graduates who are international in outlook, learned in their subjects, moral in character, and committed to serving the needs of society. Such an endeavour will contribute to the long-term development of China, and also bring benefits to CUHK as an institution.’
According to the Framework Agreement signed, CUHK and the Shenzhen Municipal Government agree to establish the CUHK Shenzhen Institute in Shenzhen. The Institute on the new campus will be engaged in both education and research, as a first-class research-intensive university benchmarked against peers around the world. CUHK will make reference to the curriculum in Hong Kong in ensuring that the most rigorous educational standards and quality are maintained on the Shenzhen campus. The Shenzhen Municipal Government will set aside a piece of land next to Daiyuncheng (大運城, the town purpose-built for Universiade) in Longgang District (龍崗區), to be used without charge as the campus of the CUHK Shenzhen Institute. With an area of around 100 hectares, the site enjoys a picturesque environment and is easily accessible. The Shenzhen Municipal Government has also promised to provide recurrent subvention for full-time students.
In compliance with the Regulations of the People’s Republic of China Chinese-Foreign Cooperation in Running Schools, Shenzhen University will be CUHK’s mainland partner. The governing body of the CUHK Shenzhen Institute will be its Executive Board (理事會), to be chaired by the Vice-Chancellor of CUHK. Its membership will be drawn, in equal proportions, from CUHK and Shenzhen University. The management structure will be different from that of most mainland universities: the President of the Institute will be responsible for the management, under the leadership of the Executive Board. The Institute will uphold academic freedom, foster an open academic environment and will be managed along modern and democratic principles.
CUHK formed a Task Force in October 2009 to explore the possibility of establishing a campus in Shenzhen. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the Shenzhen Municipal Government in February last year. Feasibility studies were conducted by the University and delegations visited the three universities on the mainland established with outside (foreign and Hong Kong) partners, to understand and learn from their experience. Moreover, on many occasions the University has engaged its staff, students, alumni and academic faculties for consultation and exchange of information, to report on progress and to gather views. The responses have been enthusiastic.
Throughout the deliberations on establishing the Shenzhen campus, CUHK has been guided by the following principles: the University must ensure that the quality of teaching and learning is on a par with that on its Shatin campus; the Shenzhen campus must enjoy academic freedom; and the set-up and operation of the Shenzhen campus must be financed independently with no cross-subsidy from the Shatin campus. A consensus with the Shenzhen authorities on these principles was realized through the Framework Agreement.
A joint Preparatory Committee will be formed by CUHK and the Shenzhen parties to work on matters relating to the establishment of the Institute, and to collect views and refine the plans.  It is expected that a consensus will be reached and a detailed agreement will be signed within a year, and only then would the plan to establish the CUHK Shenzhen Institute go ahead.  The Framework Agreement represents one important step forward.  The University will continue to join hands with all its members in bringing this major initiative to fruition for the long-term benefits of the University, Hong Kong and the nation.
