[date]21 December 2010[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong and IBM Launch Student Information System 
to Enhance Student Administrative Services and Advance Learning
System serves as a model for next generation, Smarter Education in Hong Kong [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced the successful implementation of a new student information system that provides students with access to university services anytime, anywhere, while also enabling CUHK to cope with the changes led by Hong Kong’s 3+3+4 Education Reform.
CUHK is leveraging the new system, the CUHK Student Information System or CUSIS, which went live in October, to manage the entire student lifecycle, allowing CUHK to better cater to student needs throughout their studies and after graduation. The system can be scaled up to address the increasing reporting requirements as the volume of student-related data continues to rise in the future.
“The CUHK Student Information System will provide our students – who are increasingly global and mobile – with a richer learning experience that will take them well beyond their undergraduate years,” said Professor Pak-chung Ching, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President, CUHK.
Through CUSIS, users are able to manage business in critical areas of student admissions and registration, as well as course selection and enrollment. It also provides students with self-service in a variety of areas, including course planning, financial record and profile updates, and teaching staff the ability to manage assessment and examination records. It also gives alumni the option to update their records. By leveraging CUSIS, CUHK is able to connect with its expansive network of alumni around the world more efficiently.
IBM Global Business Services implemented the CUSIS, which is built on Oracle PeopleSoft Enterprise Campus Solutions, an ERP-based student administration management system, in a two-phase approach that mapped to CUHK’s academic cycle.
IBM also provided CUHK with a range of change management services to address the complexity involved in rolling out the new system which impacted on the University’s more than 170 existing IT applications, and drive smooth adoption of the system. As part of the change management, IBM collaborated with CUHK to develop and implement the targeted stakeholder engagement exercise, and mass communications and user training strategy and programmes.
“We are excited to extend our already long-standing partnership with CUHK to successfully help further enhance the valuable services to their students, and support the University’s long-term growth strategy,” said Vincent Wong, Partner and Hong Kong Practice Head, Global Business Services, IBM China/Hong Kong Limited. “Smarter Education is one of IBM’s key social priorities, and we are committed to helping Hong Kong advance its higher educational system by enabling diverse, interconnected learning experiences throughout a person’s life.”
CUSIS also provides an integrated database and serves as a platform for the University to build on other applications to foster continued collaboration among administrators, colleges and teaching staff in line with CUHK’s goal to support life-long learning.
CUHK attributes the success of the CUSIS implementation to the collaboration between CUHK and IBM, by which CUHK mapped its global vision and strong academic know-how to IBM’s deep insight and extensive project experience. The closely knitted partnership of CUHK and IBM is one of the most critical success factors in delivering the highly complex solution to the University within an aggressive timeline.
About The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Founded in 1963, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is a forward looking comprehensive research university with a global vision and a mission to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West.
About IBM
For more information about IBM Hong Kong, go to: www.ibm.com/hk
