[date]22 December 2010[/date]
[title]Star Lecturers to Share Insights on Global Economy in CUHK’s First ‘Executive Leadership Programme in Global Finance’[/title]
The Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will launch the first ‘Executive Leadership Programme in Global Finance’ from 16 to 21 January 2011 in Hong Kong. During the six-day programme, renowned economists from Greater China and overseas will give lectures on topics, such as the latest global economic development, the international monetary system, renminbi as an international currency, asset price bubbles, and financial derivatives and leverage.
Many believe the global financial crisis of 2008-09, which changed the global economic and financial landscape, to be the worst financial setback since the Great Depression of the 1930s. As new regulatory requirements are put in place to curb the excesses of financial markets in the West, China emerges as an important player in global finance. Professor Liu Pak-wai, director of IGEF, remarked that senior executives in leadership positions in the financial sectors will have to come to grips with this new reality and equip themselves with new knowledge and expertise. They should also have a broader perspective of the global economy and the interdependence of all major economies. The Executive Leadership Programme in Global Finance of the Chinese University will offer customized professional training to enhance their capability to survive the new challenges in the post-crisis era. 
The programme will be conducted by a team of distinguished lecturers, including three Nobel Laureates in Economic Sciences, former heads of central banks and regulatory commissions, renowned academics and distinguished bankers. The three Nobel Laureates are Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees, Professor Robert A. Mundell and Professor Myron S. Scholes. Other prominent lecturers include Dr. Donald L. Kohn, Senior Fellow, Economic Studies of Brookings Institution and Former Vice Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; Professor Liu Mingkang, Chairman of China Banking Regulatory Commission; Professor Joseph Yam, former Chief Executive of Hong Kong Monetary Authority; Dr. Andrew L.T. Sheng, former Chairman of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission;Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics of CUHK; Ambassador Linda Tsao Yang, Chair of the Asian Corporate Governance Association; Sir C.K. Chow, Chief Executive Officer of MTR Corporation Limited, Hong Kong; Dr. K.L. Wong, Former Managing Director and Chairman, Asia Investment Banking of Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd.; Professor Wong Po-shing, Chief Consultant of RiskMan Limited; Professor Liu Pak-wai, Professor of Economics and Director of IGEF of CUHK and Professor Leslie Young, Wei Lun Professor of Finance and Director of the Asia-Pacific Institute of Business of CUHK.
The programme will be conducted in English, supplemented with simultaneous interpretation, and Putonghua can be used during the Q&amp;A sessions. It is specially designed for senior executives and chief financial officers in the banking, insurance, finance and other industries in both the public and private sectors. Senior officials of China Banking Regulatory Commission, China Securities Regulatory Commission and The People’s Bank of China as well as senior executives of Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation and financial regulators in Hong Kong will also join the programme. For further details, please visit http://www.igef.cuhk.edu.hk/or call (852)2696 1620. 
The IGEF of CUHK, established in June 2010, draws on the educational and research strengths and resources of the Department of Economics and the Faculty of Business Administration, with the aim of contributing to the modernization of China’s monetary and financial systems through new ways of thinking, policy recommendations and new paths for modernization.
