[date]19 October 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Accountancy Graduates Seized Eight Awards in HKICPA’s Qualification Programme Examination[/title]
Six graduates from the Bachelor of Business Administration (Hons) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) achieved outstanding performance in the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants' (HKICPA) Qualification Programme (QP) examinations held in December 2009 and June 2010, winning nine out of 14 top prizes. Among all CUHK awardees, five are graduates of the Professional Accountancy Programme (PAC) while one is a finance graduate. PAC graduates have been continuously succeeded in winning the Gold Award, which is the top award for the QP final examination, as well as the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales / Simon Morris Memorial Prize, which is a prize for achieving the highest aggregate marks for all the four modules (Module A – Financial Reporting, Module B – Financial Management, Module C – Auditing and Information Management, Module D – Taxation).
Among them, 2009 PAC graduate, Ms Kwong Wai Nga, is the winner of three awards: Top Prize in Module D, Taxation; Gold Award in the Final Professional Examination and ICAEW/Simon Morris Memorial Prize 2010 session, making her the first champion of both the Gold Award and the ICAEW/Simon Morris Memorial Prize. Other CUHK prize winners include: Mr Yick Wing Pan (Silver Award 2010 session); Mr Yeung Tin Wai (Bronze Award and the ICAEW/Simon Morris Memorial Prize 2009 session); Ms Li Hau Ching Gloria (Top Prize in Module A); Ms Lai Tsz Kei (Top Prize in Module C) and Ms Lau Hei Man, a finance major, who won the Silver Award in the 2009 session.
Dr. Alice Chui, Director of PAC Programme, remarked, ‘Over the years, performance of our PAC graduates has been highly commended by major accounting firms and large corporations. Our accounting graduates have gained an average of two job offers each, with a maximum of five offers this year. At present, our 2010 PAC graduates have already successfully embarked on their new careers, with a majority joining the Big Four and other accounting firms. Others have chosen to join different fields such as the banking and financial industries as well as the public sector, while a few have chosen to pursue their studies.’
The HKICPA’s Qualification Programme is designed to train accountants to deal with business situations typical in Hong Kong as an international financial centre. The programme builds on a university education, and expands into application of accounting knowledge and professional skills in areas such as financial reporting, corporate financing, taxation, auditing and information management. Those who wish to be qualified as a CPA in Hong Kong are required to complete the Institute’s QP and undergo a structured practical training under an authorized employer or supervisor to gain relevant experience.
