[date]8 October 2010[/date]
[title]HSBC and The Chinese University of Hong Kong Launch HSBC Insurance Course[/title]
The Faculty of Business Administration at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and HSBC Insurance join hands to launch the “HSBC Insurance Course” today, which is the first of its kind in Hong Kong. The course will offer selected second and final year students of CUHK practical and comprehensive training in insurance strategies, operations, products and regulations.
This strategic partnership between HSBC Insurance and CUHK’s Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis Programme (IFAA) is the first company insurance course offered in Hong Kong. Senior executives from HSBC Insurance will take turns to give lectures and lead project discussions throughout the 13 dedicatedly designed lectures. In addition, the HSBC Insurance Scholarship amounting to HKD100,000 will be awarded to outstanding students. The programme also provides an invaluable 6-month placement opportunity for selected students to gain practical insurance training and acquire solid skills.
Officiating at the kick-off ceremony, Prof. Benjamin Wah, Acting Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said, “The IFAA Programme, by its nature, has an interwoven connection with the finance and insurance industry. It is the only programme in Hong Kong, and probably the world, which puts together both insurance and quantitative training in the same curriculum. This strategic partnership, which provides our students with an unparalleled opportunity to learn the ropes from seasoned insurance professionals, will offer good guidance for them to start their careers in the field. I would like to take this opportunity to show our heartfelt gratitude to the generous support from HSBC. The partnership denotes our shared commitments of nurturing future business leaders.” Prof. Wah also extended his special appreciation to the group of HSBC insurance experts, who have volunteered to squeeze some time out of their hectic schedule to teach in the course.
Mr. David Fried, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Insurance for Asia-Pacific, said, “We are pleased to partner with CUHK to launch the first-of-its-kind company insurance course in Hong Kong. This novel programme not only signifies the joint-up efforts of two leading institutions but also underscores HSBC Insurance’s longterm commitment to nurturing the future talents of the insurance industry.”
“We hope that the sharing of real-life experiences, from both myself and my team of veteran executives, will provide students with an in-depth understanding of the industry’s practices and reveal valuable insights. I am sure that this programme, integrating textbook theories and practical experiences, will unlock and develop the potential of the next generation in this exciting industry,” added Mr Fried.
The HSBC Insurance Course is a three-month intensive programme consisting of more than 30 hours of lectures from senior HSBC insurance experts. Lecture topics include actuarial analysis, insurance risk management, insurance life operations, economics situation of insurance industry and development of insurance strategy, etc.
About HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings Limited
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings Limited is the parent company of the following underwriting companies: HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited in Hong Kong; HSBC Life (International) Limited in Hong Kong; HSBC Insurance (Singapore) Pte. Limited; HSBC Amanah Takaful (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad (49% stake); Hana HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited in Korea (50% less 1 share stake); Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company in India (26% stake) and HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited in mainland China (50% stake). In Hong Kong, HSBC subsidiary Hang Seng Bank manufactures and distributes insurance via Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited and Hang Seng General Insurance Company Limited. The HSBC Group also holds an 18% stake in Bao Viet Holdings in Vietnam and a 16.13% stake in Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China Limited in mainland China. HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited has a branch in Macau and three representative offices in Guangzhou, Shanghai and Beijing while HSBC Life (International) Limited has two branches in Taiwan and Macau and four representative offices in Vietnam, Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.
Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis Programme at CUHK
The BBA Programme in Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis (IFAA), which is run by the Department of Finance of the Faculty of Business Administration, was started in September 2002. The programme provides an in-depth education in insurance, finance, and actuarial science to individuals who wish to build careers as actuaries, financial analysts, risk managers, and other financial service providers. Since its inception, IFAA has attracted among the most outstanding and academically accomplished students in Hong Kong. For more information, please visit www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk.
