[date]11 March 2011[/date]
[title]Schroders Awards Winning Student Teams from Chinese University of Hong Kong in Fund Development Challenge
[/title]
Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited (Schroders Hong Kong), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schroders plc, today announced the three winning teams in its fund product development challenge, jointly organized with the Faculty of Business Administration at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The winning teams brought to bear their understanding, creativity and financial acumen to implement investment strategies that balance risk management, return and sustainable growth. 
Schroders’ support for the competition is part of its commitment to nurturing Hong Kong’s future investment professionals, and kicks off the celebration of its 40th anniversary in Hong Kong. Schroders opened its doors in the city in 1971 as one of the first international asset managers to establish a presence in the market. 
The competition challenged students to develop investment fund prototypes that focus on careful risk management, while generating steady returns over a minimum five-year investment horizon. The top three teams include: 
Team ‘Benchmark’: Year 3 CUHK students Kwun-wa Chan (Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis Program), Pui-lam Fung (Professional Accountancy Program), Pik-yee Tang and Shing-hin Tse (both from Quantitative Finance Program) claimed the champion title with their Life Essentials Fund. The fund aims to achieve stable and defensive growth by investing in companies from around the world that are in the business of providing daily essentials such as food, water and pharmaceutical products.
Team ‘Pioneer’: Year 2 CUHK students Kan-pan Chan, Chi-hang Lam, Ming-chin Li and Tim-yu Pang (all from Global Business Studies) took second place with a fund focusing on investment opportunities brought about by the growth of the aging global population. The fund aims to invest in eight sectors that cater to this demographic trend, namely insurance, pharmaceuticals, nutrition, health care, biotech, medical equipment, elderly homes and wealth management services.
Team ‘The One’: Year 2 CUHK students Yuk-kit Cheung (Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis Program) and King-hayChiu (Interdisciplinary Program in Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science), and Year 1 students Cheung-chun Chong (Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis Program) and Chun-ho Lee (Quantitative Finance Program), won third place with their China Policy Value Investment Fund. The fund aims to capture opportunities from China’s five-year plans by investing in companies listed on the Chinese A, B and H share markets that will benefit from the implementation of the policies.
Lieven Debruyne, CEO, Schroders Hong Kong, commented: 
“The goal of the competition is to instil a diligent wealth management mindset among future investment professionals. It is clear from the quality of all the team’s submissions that Hong Kong’s rising investment stars have a bright future ahead.  Stringent risk management and investing for long-term growth are the principles behind the products Schroders offer.  As we celebrate our 40th anniversary in Hong Kong, we remain committed to advocating this investment philosophy, and continue to be a pioneer in Hong Kong’s financial community.”
Prof. Tak-jun Wong, Dean, Faculty of Business Administration, CUHK, commented:
“The Schroders-sponsored competition provided an excellent opportunity for our students to learn about the trade from a leader in Hong Kong’s asset management industry. I believe our students have gained a well-rounded perspective on mutual funds and investment, and will become key contributors to Hong Kong’s investment community, and help reinforce the city’s status as Asia’s financial hub.” 
Each member of champion team ‘Benchmark’ will receive a tuition sponsorship of HK$30,000 and a three-month internship opportunity at Schroders Hong Kong. The team will also have an opportunity to travel to London to visit the headquarters of Schroders. Members of second place winning team ‘Pioneer’ will each receive a HK$20,000 tuition sponsorship, and each team member of thirdplace winning team ‘The One’ will receive a HK$10,000 tuition sponsorship.
A total of 84 students from CUHK took part in the competition comprising 21 teams. Ten teams were shorted-listed to present their products to a panel of judges, who scored them on product originality, thorough explanation on investment strategies and demonstration on the feasibility of the fund’s performance.
Schroders
Schroders is a leading independent international asset management and private banking group, with more than 200 years experience in financial services and $286.1 billion funds under management^.
Schroders manages investments across all major asset classes for clients including large pension funds, government bodies, charities, corporations and individual investors throughout the world. 
Schroders’ independence and single focus on asset management enables us to align our interests with those of our clients worldwide. We aim to apply our specialist asset management skills to serve the needs of our clients, utilizing over 330 investment professionals in 32 offices in 25 countries^.
Schroders’ investment capabilities have been recognized by experts across the world, and our range of funds has won numerous awards worldwide over the past years.
Schroders is highly committed to excellence in risk management. We have a stringent research and investment process which provides security and confidence in our ability to produce consistent performance for our clients.
^ As of 30 September 2010
