[date]15 January 2011[/date]
[title]Kick-off Ceremony for CUHK Chung Chi College 60th Anniversary and Faculty of Medicine 30th Anniversary Held Today[/title]
In joint celebration of the 60th Anniversary of Chung Chi College and the 30th Anniversary of Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), a kick-off ceremony was held today (15 January 2011) at Lingnan Stadium of Chung Chi College on the University campus. Today also kicked off the 20th Anniversary of Nethersole School of Nursing and the 10th Anniversary of School of Public Health and Primary Care. Officiated at the ceremony were Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Mr. Karl C. Kwok, Chairman, Board of Trustees of Chung Chi College; Prof. Leung Yuen Sang, Head of Chung Chi College; Prof. Fok Tai Fai, Dean of Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Leung Yee, Chairman of Chung Chi College 60th Anniversary Organizing Committee; and Prof. Anthony T.C. Chan, Chairman of Faculty of Medicine 30th Anniversary Organizing Committee.
Jointly organized by Chung Chi College and the Faculty of Medicine, the 10th Fun Run was held prior to the kick-off ceremony. The event set a new record with nearly 600 participants comprising teaching staff, alumni and students from Chung Chi College and Faculty of Medicine. Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said in his opening remarks, ‘Chung Chi College and the Faculty of Medicine have been working in close collaboration with each other, and such collaboration represents a special feature of CUHK. Our unique college system enhances whole-person education for students and allows teaching staff from different disciplines to exchange ideas, enriching the university life. I am delighted to meet many alumni today who have come to celebrate on this special occasion, and I am grateful for their continued support to and enthusiasm in various activities organized by CUHK. Their affection and care to the University has set a good example for all students.’
Prof. Leung Yuen Sang, Head of Chung Chi College addressed, ‘Jointly presented by the College and the Faculty of Medicine 10 years ago, the Fun Run has become an anticipated and meaningful activity among our students, staff and alumni. The College has great pleasure to partner with the Faculty of Medicine in promoting the message of healthy living. To celebrate the 60th anniversary of Chung Chi College, an array of celebration events including academic conferences, art exhibitions, concerts, a large scale banquet and a carnival will be held from now till July 2012.’
Prof. Fok Tai Fai, Dean of Faculty of Medicine remarked at the ceremony, ‘Our friendship with Chung Chi College has been growing stronger since we jointly organized the Fun Run. Apart from celebrating the Faculty’s 30th Anniversary, this year also marks the 20th Anniversary of Nethersole School of Nursing and the 10th Anniversary of School of Public Health and Primary Care. A series of celebration activities will be staged throughout the year, including the Faculty Dinner to be held on June 11.’ 
A celebration carnival for Chung Chi College 60th anniversary was also held today at the Lingnan Stadium, attracting over 1,000 participants to join the fun and interesting activities, including performances by students and staff, family games, food court, bouncing castle, maze, baby run and electric cars for kids, etc. Guided tours to the Dissecting Laboratory of the Faculty of Medicine and the Virtual Reality Laboratory of the Nethersole School of Nursing were also arranged for visitors.
