[date]16 December 2010[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds its 68th Congregation for the Installation of New Vice-Chancellor and Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 68th Congregation for the Installation of the New Vice-Chancellor and for the Conferment of Degrees today (16 December). At the Congregation, Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the Council, installed Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung who assumed duty on 1 July 2010 as the seventh Vice-Chancellor of CUHK.Four distinguished persons were conferred honorary doctorates in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and scientific advancement, socio-economic progress, promotion of the well-being of the people, and the development of the University. They are: Dr. Edgar Cheng Wai-kin, Prof. Xu Guanhua, Dr. Gerald Chan Lok-chung, and the late Dr. Mok Hing-yiu.Dr. Edgar Cheng Wai-kin was conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Prof. Xu Guanhua received the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa. Dr. Gerald Chan Lok-chung was awarded the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa. Dr. Mok Hing-yiu was conferred posthumously the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa.Besides the four honorary doctorate degrees, a total of 7,601 degrees were conferred at the congregation. These included one Doctor of Science, five Doctor of Medicine, 291 Doctor of Philosophy, seven Doctor of Education, one Doctor of Music and one Doctor of Psychology degrees, 4,166 students receiving Master’s degrees and 3,129 students receiving Bachelor’s degrees. Among the last were 471 Bachelor of Arts (including the first batch of 30 Bachelor of Arts (English Studies) jointly organized with The Hong Kong Institute of Education), 605 Bachelor of Business Administration, 51 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 73 Bachelor of Education (including the first batch of 54 Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood Education)), 381 Bachelor of Engineering, the first batch of 46 Bachelor of Laws, 133 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 162 Bachelor of Nursing, 35 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 25 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 633 Bachelor of Science (including 10 graduates of the Bachelor of Science degree who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme), and 514 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.