[date]30 November 2010[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Partners with CFA Institute
to Provide Professional Training on Finance and Investment
[/title]
Hong Kong, 30 November 2010 – The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)yesterday(29 November) signedan agreement with CFA Institute, the global association for investment professionals, recognizing the university as a CFA Program Partner. This recognition signals to potential students, employers, and the marketplace that the university curriculum is closely tied to professional practice and is well suited to preparing students for CFA examinations and ultimately employment in the finance and investment industry. 
The partnership agrees that CUHK’s Bachelor of Science in Quantitative Financeprogram covers 70 percent of the Level I topics of the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledgeand CFA Institute ethical and professional standards. Students studying this program at CUHK are entitled to CFA Institute curriculums, an exclusive online Level I sample examination, journals, webcasts, and other educational resources, and are eligible to apply for Level I CFA examination scholarships. 
‘The values of CUHK and CFA Institute are closely aligned. We both focus on excellence in technical skills, and also – and perhaps more importantly – focus on excellence in ethical standards. We are proud of our association with CFA Institute, which is regardedas the standardsetterin the global financial industry,’ said Professor T.J. Wong, Dean of Business Administration at CUHK. 
Dr. AshvinVibhakar, managing director, Asia-Pacific Operations, CFA Institute, said: ‘Students completing their degrees from the partnering programs will gain a firm grounding in the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge, as well as the CFA Institute ethical and professional standards. The solid foundation of the CFA Programcurriculum is developed through extensive collaboration with practitioners around the world and represents the knowledge, skills, and abilities that serious investment professionals need for successful careers.’ 
The CFA Program is a graduate-level self-study program that combines a broad-based curriculum of investment principles with professional conduct requirements. The CFA curriculumincludes ethical and professional standards; financial reporting and analysis; corporate finance; economics; quantitative methods; equity, fixed income, and alternative investments; derivatives; portfolio management and wealth planning. It is designed to prepare individuals for a wide range of investment jobs that apply in markets all over the world. Regarded as the most rigorous credentialing program, the CFA Program provides candidates with up-to-date and relevant professional knowledge, which is a strong foundation for a wide range of career paths, and the CFA charter is recognized as the gold standard in the investment industry. 
CFA Institute collaborates with universities around the world to nurture the next generation of investment and finance professionals. Currently, there are 128 CFA Program Partners worldwide, including prestigious colleges and universities such as the Saïd Business School at the University of Oxford in the U.K., University of Southern California, The Johnson School at Cornell University in the U.S., London Business School, Peking University in China, and Waseda University in Japan. 
About CFA Institute
CFA Institute is the global association for investment professionals. It administers the CFA® (Chartered Financial Analyst®) and CIPM curriculum and examination programs worldwide; publishes research; conducts professional development programs; and sets voluntary, ethics-based professional and performance-reporting standards for the investment industry. CFA Institute has around 106,000 members, who include the world’s more than 94,000 CFA charterholders, in 137 countries and territories, as well as 135 affiliated professional societies in 58 countries and territories. 
Follow CFA Institute online: www.cfainstitute.org│twitter.com/CFA_Asia│Facebook.com/CFAInstitute  │LinkedIn: Member Group│LinkedIn: Candidate Group
 About The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Founded in 1963, CUHK is a forward-looking comprehensive research university with a global vision and a mission to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West. Offering a wide range of multi-disciplinary courses, the University is dedicated to excellence in both teaching and research. 
For more information about CUHK, please visit http://www.cuhk.edu.hk
About The Faculty of Business Administration
The Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong has always been a pioneer in business education. The Faculty launchedthe first full-time and part-time MBA programmesand the first undergraduate business programme in thecity. Over the years, we have nurtured more than 20,000 business professionals who have formed a major pillar of the local as well as global business community.
For more information about Faculty of Business Administration, please visit http://www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk
