[date]23 March 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Green Pioneer Series
Centre of Strategic Environmental Assessment for China to Host ‘Open Forum on the 12th Five-Year Plan: Environment, Resources and Green Development’ this Saturday
Now Open for Public Registration
[/title]
In China's 12th Five-Year Plan, energy conservation, pollution mitigation and urbanization are highlighted as key areas for China's social and economic development in the next five years. As the world's largest carbon dioxide emitter and second largest economy, China's development has profound impact on global climate change and energy safety. Safety concerns about nuclear power plants after the massive earthquake in Japan may also affect China's development of nuclear power and corresponding mitigation plans for carbon dioxide emissions. 
Hong Kong has close ties with the mainland in terms of economic development, environmental protection and energy supply. It is of prime importance for Hong Kong's government, academia, business sector and the general public to learn more about the 12th Five-Year Plan. Sponsored by Hang Seng – Green Bank, organized by Centre of Strategic Environmental Assessment for China, CUHK, and co-organized by Professional Association for China's Environment, the 'Open Forum on the 12th Five-Year Plan: Environment, Resources and Green Development' will be held this Saturday (26 March) in which experts from Ministry of Environmental Protection and National Development and Reform Commission will be invited to give keynote speeches on the following four topics. Two CUHK professors will also share their insights in the discussions to enhance public's understanding on the issues:
- Goals and measures of energy conservation and pollution mitigation in the 12th Five-Year Plan
- China's strategies in response to global climate change
- New direction and issues of urbanization
- Collaboration between Hong Kong and the mainland in regional environmental protection
Members of the public are welcome to register for the forum at  http://www.grm.cuhk.edu.hk/eng/news/confnews/125forum.html. Details are as follows: 

Date:
26 March 2011 (Saturday)

Time:
10:00 am –12:30 pm

Venue:
Room C.K. Tse, Chung Chi College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories

Welcome remarks:
Prof. Fung TUNG, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK

Keynote speeches:
Prof. WANG Jinan, Vice President and Chief Engineer, Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning, Ministry of Environmental Protection
Prof. XU Zhencheng, Deputy Director, South China Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Environmental Protection
Prof. ZHANG Jianping, Institute of Foreign Economics Research, National Development and Reform Commission

Commentators:
Prof. LAM Kin-Che, Director, Centre of Strategic Environmental Assessment for China, CUHK
Prof. CHEN Yongqin, Chairman, Department of Geography and Resource Management, CUHK

Website:
http://www.grm.cuhk.edu.hk/eng/news/confnews/125forum.html
(venue location map available)

Enquiry:
Mr. Byford Tsang, Department of Geography and Resource Management, CUHK (Tel: 2696 1385)

About CUHK Green Pioneer Series
CUHK is privileged to have a green campus that is among the most beautiful in Asia. For two years in a row, the University has been recognized at Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence, reaping the gold award last year under the category of Public Organizations and Utilities among a total of 400 plus entries competed, and granted the class of excellence 'Energywi$e' label, setting a model of sustainability in the academic sector. 
CUHK will build on its outstanding achievements in carbon reduction, water saving, paper saving, ecosystem conservation, and environmental education. The University will launch more innovative projects and share its latest green works through the Green Pioneer Series, bringing its experiences off-campus and share them with the public to promote green living.
 
