[date]18 February 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Faculty Turns 20 and Presents Scholarship to Student to Join South Pole Expedition[/title]
The Faculty of Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. All kinds of celebratory activities will be organized, involving staff, alumni and students, that are aimed at promoting engineering education and sharing achievements made in the past two decades with the public.
The mission of engineers is to improve and enrich human lives with innovative designs and inventions. Apart from having a broad spectrum of knowledge, they need to care about society. Prof. Kam Fai WONG, Associate Dean (External Affairs) of the Faculty of Engineering, said, ‘The Faculty attaches great importance to promoting all-round education for our students. Experiential learning is a meaningful means of education and may yield more fruitful results than classroom learning. Therefore, we encourage students to take part in exchange programmes to broaden their horizons.’ The Faculty also urges its students to participate in extra-curricular activities in order to better equip themselves for their career and contribute to society.  
The Chinese University takes upon itself the promotion of environmental protection. In line with this, the Faculty has made energy technology one of the five strategic areas for future development. Energy technology is related to green logistics, low carbon emission, sustainability and related issues, and aims at nurturing socially responsible engineers who understand their roles in environmental protection and energy development.
To encourage experiential learning, the Faculty offered a scholarship to Carol Pun, a Year 1 student of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management, to join an expedition to the South Pole to witness the effects of climate change on the fragile ecosystem.
Last year, Carol teamed up with another CUHK student and two other university students to take part in the ‘Get it Green’ competition which was jointly organized by the Environmental Campaign Committee and Civic Exchange. Their team won the gold prize and the People’s Award, and was given an opportunity to join the Antarctic Expedition. Their winning project ‘Road Signs of the Future’ carries the message that human’s excessive damage to nature will lead to landfill overflow, lack of fresh air, and rise in water levels.
Demonstrating a creativity and passion for environmental protection, Carol won the valuable chance to visit the South Pole. She urges other teenagers to be more concerned about climate change and to promote a low-carbon life style.
