[date]25 October 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK’s EMBA Jumps to Top 10 Schools Worldwide and Ranks No. 1 Independent EMBA in Asia-Pacific Again
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Executive MBA Programme scored another success in the Financial Times 2010 ranking of EMBA programme released today.
 In its latest global survey of 100 EMBA Programmes worldwide, the London-based Financial Timesranked CUHK’s EMBA Programme No. 10 in 2010, the best global ranking result the programme has ever achieved from Financial Times since the newspaper’s first launch of EMBA ranking in 2001. It is also the programme’s great leap forward from its ranking of No. 19 achieved last year.
‘We are very pleased to see the good performance of the programme. We are the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong Kong product. The Programme’s success is, therefore, Hong Kong’s success,’ Prof. Andrew C. F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme said, ‘In addition, we owe the result to the support of our University management and the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, staff, students, alumni and our devoted friends in the business community.’ 
It scored high in areas such as alumni’s salary today, salary increase, work experience, international students, international advisory board, and women students. Alumni’s salary is the 4th highest in the world. The programme’s graduates also achieved a high salary increase rate of 64% this year. 
It is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, but also the only programme in the top 10 where the medium of teaching is bilingual. 
‘As always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit,’ Professor Chan said, ‘What is important is maintaining our ability to nurture top-notched management talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the region.”
‘We will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory and practice, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since 2002, enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders. As such we have co-organized with RTHK, ATV, Cable TV and now BNC the popular “Talking to CEOs” series, and the “New Thinking in Management” live programme currently aired every Sunday afternoon on RTHK’s Radio One. For reaching a broader spectrum of audience and readers, the content of these programmes as well as that of our EMBA Forum, Conference, Seminars, etc. were published and produced regularly in the format of books, DVDs, CDs and newspapers such as Hong Kong Economic Journal, Hong Kong Economic Journal Monthly, Sing Tao Daily, Ming Pao andHeadline Daily.’ 
‘Some of the published books were converted to e-books for public’s easy access. Public can also listen to the “Talking to CEOs” and “New Thinking in Management” programmes through podcast in iPod, or iTunes U page in iPhone or iPad.’ 
‘To enable students to develop a global perspective and interact with senior executives in different parts of the world, we’ll continue to organize more global study trips for the students. In June this year, the students completed a global study programme in Berkeley. They’ll also attend another global field study in another place next year,” said Professor Chan.
