[date]15 February 2011[/date]
[title]Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme 2010/2011
Chung Chi College
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
[/title]
This year marks the 60th anniversary of Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The College is very honoured to have invited Prof. Pai Hsien-yung, Kenneth, Professor Emeritus, Department of East Asian Languages &amp; Cultural Studies, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA, to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2010/2011.  During his visit from February 14 to 22, 2011, Professor Pai will be meeting College staff and students in a series of activities including the Annual Education Conference, College Life Luncheon Talk, College Assembly and Tolo Nocturne, etc. 
The Annual Education Conference of Chung Chi College is the highlight among activities of Professor Pai’s visit to Chung Chi College.  It is also one of the celebratory activities of the Chung Chi College’s 60th Anniversary. Details are as follows:

Date:
19 February 2011(Saturday)
Time:
10:00 a.m.
Venue:
Lecture Theatre 1, Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College
Topic:
“The 21st Century Renaissance in China– the Role of Hong Kong”
Guest Speakers:
Prof. Pai Hsien-yung, Kenneth, Chung Chi College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2010/11
Prof. Lee Ou-fan, Leo, Wei Lun Professor of Humanities, CUHK
Mr. Tung Chiao, renowned writer
Moderator:
Prof. Lo Wai-luen, Adjunct Professor, Centre for East Asian Studies, CUHK and Adviser, Hong Kong Literature Research Centre

The Conference will be conducted in Putonghua, with simultaneous interpretation in English provided.  The event is also open to the public.  Interested parties may contact 2609-6444 for registration.  For more details, please visit the website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/. 
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College, CUHK.  With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff members as well as students, the Visiting Fellows Programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong.  
In the past 25 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields such as Prof. C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the Mainland; and Prof. Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University, were invited to visit the College for several weeks as the College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows.
