[date]9 January 2011[/date]
[title]Ceremony for the Naming of Yat-sen Hall at CUHK Shaw College and Opening of Academic Seminar to Mark the Centenary of Xinhai Revolution[/title]
Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) celebrated the naming of Yat-sen Hall and the opening of the academic seminar to mark the centenary of the Xinhai Revolution recently. Over 100 guests attended the ceremony, including Mr. Peter Sun, the great grandnephew of Dr. Sun; Ms. Li Xiaolin, daughter of the former President of People’s Republic of China Mr. Li Xiannian; Dr. Yau Dick-woon, the great grandson of Mr. You Lie, a member of Four Great Gangs, and his wife Mrs Carrie Yau, and more than 60 experts in Sunology research from the mainland, Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas.Shaw College is grateful for the generous donation from Dr. Ho Hau-wong and Dr. Lam Kin-chung via the Lam Kin Chung Morning Sun Charity Fund to name the high block of Student Hostel II at Shaw College after Dr. Sun Yat-sen. The benevolence is to pay respect to the pioneers dedicated to the Xinhai Revolution, and to support Shaw College to nurture outstanding leaders to serve Hong Kong, the motherland and the entire world.In addition, Shaw College co-organized the academic seminar to mark the centenary of Xinhai Revolution with China International Friendship Cities Association and Hong Kong Museum of History to provide an opportunity of academic exchange and interaction among experts in Sunology research from mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas. The seminar also aimed at enhancing the knowledge of college students and participants about contemporary Chinese history to help them develop a stronger sense of belonging to their motherland, and thus to better contribute to our home country. Two leading experts in the discipline, Prof. Zhang Kaiyuan, the former President of Huazhong Normal University, and Prof. Lu Fangshang from Tunghai University, Taiwan, were the keynote speakers. Prof. Joseph Ting, the former Chief Curator of the Hong Kong Museum of History, was the moderator of the seminar.The ceremony and the seminar were some of the signature events of the Silver Jubilee of Shaw College in the academic year 2010/11.