[date]21 February 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK New Mentorship Programme Launched
Leaders of Society Share Wisdom of Life with Students
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a new year party to launch its revamped mentorship scheme which is now renamed as 'CUHK Mentorship Programme'. A number of community leaders joined the scheme, including Sir David Akers-Jones, former Chief Secretary of the Hong Kong Government; Dr. Richard R. Vuylsteke, President of The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong; Mr. Nicholas R. Sallnow-Smith, Chairman of The Link Management Limited. The celebration also received warm response from mentors including Dr. Paul Kan, 'Father of Multi-lingual Messaging', Mr. James E. Thompson, Chairman of Crown Worldwide Group, etc.   
The programme received enthusiastic support from 53 mentors this year, benefitting 99 students in total. The mentors come from different professions, including the civil service, commercial and social service sectors. Some new members are alumni and senior executives of renowned corporations; while some of them have supported the scheme for years.    
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, the officiating guest at the party said, 'The role of a university is not only to impart knowledge, but also to groom the moral character of our society's future torchbearers. As such, the University has endeavoured to inculcate students with qualities that define an educated world citizen of today and tomorrow by placing equal emphasis on formal and non-formal education, and the mentorship programme constitutes part of the non-formal education. The mentors, despite their hectic schedule, offer advice and guidance to mentees in different aspects of life and share with them their experience and wisdom. Their contribution to society and commitment in grooming future leaders have set a perfect example for our students.' 
The programme is highly commended by last year's participating students. Tam Man Yee Monica, a third year Translation student, was the mentee of Sir David Akers-Jones. 'Through our weekly sharing, I had a deeper understanding and analysis on global, mainland and local issues, and realized the importance of acting as a responsible citizen,' said Monica. 
Mentors coming from the commercial sector were also willing to share with students on a variety of topics other than business issues or career planning. Li Hei Tung Elton, a third year Economics student, was the mentee of Mr. Sallnow-Smith. Elton said, 'The sharing and advice given by Mr. Sallnow-Smith were always inspiring and enlightening. He advised me not to merely focus on my career plan without setting a clear goal for life.' 
Organized by the Office of Student Affairs, the programme aims to help students broaden their perspectives, enhance their awareness of social issues, as well as obtain advice from experienced professionals and build up networks.
