[date]3 November 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph Sung Leads Delegation to Taiwan
First Collaborative Clinical Research Centre with NTU Established
[/title]
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), led a delegation to Taiwan on 1 and 2 November with an aim to strengthening ties and fostering academic collaboration with partner institutions in Taiwan. Several agreements were concluded during the visit. Professor Sung also officiated at the plaque-unveiling ceremony of the Collaborative Clinical Research Centre jointly established by CUHK and Taiwan University (NTU). 
During the visit, Prof. Joseph Sung expressed that CUHK is actively building a closer tie with Taiwan.  The visit has consolidated the existing collaborative efforts of CUHK in Taiwan, particularly in terms of student interflow, academic exchange and research collaborations. 
The delegation, comprising Professor Sung, Prof. Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor; Prof. Hsiung Ping-chen, Dean of Arts; Prof. Wong Ching-ping, Dean of Engineering; Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Dean of Medicine; Prof. Paul Lee, Dean of Social Science, and Prof. Francis Chan, Associate Dean of Medicine, visited Taiwan Cheng Kung University, Taiwan Cheng Chi University, Taiwan NSC, NTU and Taiwan Central University. They met with Prof. Lai Ming-Chiao, President of Cheng Kung University; Prof. Wu Se-Hwa, President of Taiwan Cheng Chi University; Prof. Lee Luo-Chuang, Minister of Taiwan NSC; Prof. Lee Si-Chen, President of NTU; and Prof. Chiang Wei-ling, President of Taiwan Central University to discuss the latest development of different academic disciplines, their respective academic strengths, as well as collaboration opportunities for research and academic exchange.
An MOU signing and plaque-unveiling ceremony of the NTU-CUHK Collaborative Clinical Research Centre was held at NTU during the visit. As the University’s first joint research centre with the higher education sector in Taiwan, the Centre aims to strengthen medical collaboration between the two universities, conduct innovative clinical research, organize academic exchange activities with renowned scholars and institutions, as well as to establish regular training programmes for research staff.  The delegation also signed collaboration agreements with Taiwan Cheng Kung University and Taiwan Cheng Chi University to facilitate research and academic exchanges.
