[date]26 January 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK GLOBE Programme Receives Honorable Mention in 2011 Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation in International Education
[/title]
The Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education (GLOBE) Programme, jointly offered by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Copenhagen Business School (CBS) and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC), was awarded Honorable Mention in the category of International Partnerships in 2011 Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation in International Education by the Institute of International Education (IIE). The Programme will be recognized at IIE’s Best Practices Conferences to be held in New York City on 18 March 2011 and will be showcased on the IIENetwork website (http://www.iienetwork.org/) and in the IIENetworker magazine. 
Launched in 2005, GLOBE is the only collaborative undergraduate business programme across three continents. Prestigious business schools of the three partner institutions together admit 45 elite students a year, who will study together for 16 months in Hong Kong, Denmark and the United States to learn business operations and cultures in Asia, Europe and North America. To further reinforce their global business mindset, study trips are arranged for students to visit selected corporations, government departments and NGOs in Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, New York, Research Triangle Park, Shanghai, Tokyo, and Washington D.C. 
Prof. Gordon Cheung, Programme Director of GLOBE at CUHK, remarked, ‘GLOBE has attracted top-notch students in Hong Kong since its establishment. GLOBE has been very successful in nurturing business management talents with strong communication skills, extensive international exposures and a global mindset. Graduates of GLOBE are now working at various multinational corporations including Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey &amp; Company, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley and Standard Chartered Bank. Some of them pursue further studies at overseas institutions including Cambridge University, Oxford University, and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. We are very happy that GLOBE has received international attention and recognition.’ 
IIE launched the Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation in International Education in 2001 to promote and honour the most outstanding initiatives being conducted in international higher education by IIENetwork member universities and colleges. It is particularly interested in highlighting initiatives that remove institutional barriers and broaden the base of participation in international teaching and learning on campus. IIENetwork has currently over 1,000 member institutions around the world committed to the development of international education. 
