[date]28 July 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits the Best HKALE Candidates[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has admitted 2,355 students through JUPAS this year, of which over 99% (2,333) are candidates putting CUHK as their Band A choices.  CUHK has also admitted 70 and 18 students through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations and the Self-recommendation Scheme, respectively. 
CUHK continues to be the top choice for HKALE candidates.  Out of all those who obtained at least a grade A in this year's HKALE, 1,075 (31.9%) have been admitted by CUHK, the highest among the nine JUPAS-participating institutions in terms of both number and percentage.  Nearly 40% of those who obtained three As or above are admitted by CUHK, including one with 6As, five with 5As and 17 with 4As. 
Interest guides the choice
The admittees with 3As or above have chosen their majors from 28 programmes: Chinese Language and Literature, Cultural Studies, History, Japanese Studies, Translation, Integrated BBA, Global Business Studies , Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Science, Professional Accountancy, Quantitative Finance, BBA–JD, Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science, International Business and Chinese Enterprise, BA—BEd (Chinese Language Education), Law, Medicine, Pharmacy, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics, Risk Management Science, Mathematics and Information Engineering, Economics, Geography and Resource Management, Journalism and Communication, Psychology, Social Work, and Sociology.  This wide spectrum shows that these students were guided by interest in choosing their fields of studies. 
Ranked by the highest admission scores of individual admittees, Global Business Studies, Pharmacy, Integrated BBA, Quantitative Finance, Medicine, and Psychology are the top programmes.  Looking at the median admission scores, the five programmes/disciplines with the best results are: Global Business Studies, International Business and Chinese Enterprise, Quantitative Finance, Pharmacy, and Medicine. 
Global Business Studies takes in all straight-A students
The Global Business Studies programme has always been a favourite among the cream of the crop.  Those admitted this year are all straight-A students.   Chiu Shing-fung (6As) and Pau Cheuk-sen (5As), both from the Hang Seng School of Commerce, have immense interest in business studies.  They look forward to gaining professional and commercial knowledge from the Global Business Studies programme and to take full advantage of the opportunities of studying in the US and Denmark to broaden their horizon.  Their future plans are to leave their marks in the business sectors. 
Cancer survivor's heart with the society
Chan Sze-hang's school life was seriously affected by the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.  But she persevered in her studies and through determination and with the support of her family obtained 3As in the HKALE.  Having battled for her life, she is grateful for the opportunity to study Government and Public Administration at CUHK.  She expects the knowledge of public affairs will enable her to take part in policy-making in the future and help the underprivileged in society. 
Student leader nominated by principal to study physics
The Department of Physics at CUHK has always attracted the top science students.  Thirty-seven students with As in HKALE will join the Department this year, including Law Yuk-ting (3As).  Law was the president of the students union in his high school and had represented his school in various maths and sports competitions.  He had received in two consecutive years the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Prizes for Senior Secondary School Students.  His leadership was recognized and much appreciated by his principal who nominated him for admission to CUHK. 
Ten athletes on Hong Kong National Squad join CUHK
Seventeen students are admitted by CUHK through the Elite Athlete Scheme.  Ten of them have represented Hong Kong in major sports events.  Cheung Kin-tat has won one Gold, one Silver and one Bronze in the swimming events at this year's National School Games.  His Gold is the first one won by a Hong Kong swimmer in this competition.  His performances at the 2010 Youths' Olympics, Asian Games and East Asian Games are all outstanding.  He has been admitted to the Physical Education and Sports Science Programme and looks forward to fulfilling his boyhood dream of joining law enforcement after graduation.  Two other swimmers who are no strangers to local and international competitions, the twins Jamie and Joanne Li will also join CUHK.  The former will study Economics, the latter Geography and Resource Management.
