[date]12 May 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents Long Service Awards to 66 Staff[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2010 Long Service Awards to 66 staff who have been with the University for 25 or 35 years. Sixty-two received the award for having worked here for 25 years and four, for 35 years. At the awards ceremony, officiated by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, recipients had pictures taken with family, friends and colleagues. 
Prof. Andrew van Hasselt
Prof. Andrew van Hasselt joined the Faculty of Medicine at CUHK in 1985, and established the Division of Otorhinolaryngology for the Department of Surgery providing specialist services to the community together with undergraduate and postgraduate educational programmes for the Faculty. Under his leadership, the division evolved to become a full academic Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery in 2007, providing a complete range of modern services for the New Territories East Region of Hong Kong with a population of 1.3 million. He is currently the department chair. Professor van Hasselt also steered the establishment of the CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre in 2005, which is the first and one of the largest multi-disciplinary surgical skills centres in the Asia Pacific region. He currently chairs the Executive Board. 
Professor van Hasselt is devoted to research, integrating academic and clinical experience while promoting academic exchange and contributing to the regional and international arenas. He is an active advocate in minimally invasive surgical techniques in ear, nose and throat, particularly in endoscopic sinus surgery and lasers in the airway.　In 1993, he developed and introduced the 'Hong Kong Flap', a technique of reconstructing radical mastoid cavities. The technique is now widely adopted internationally. He is also the founder and chairman of the Hear Talk Foundation, a registered non-profit charitable organization, promoting service and research for people suffering from hearing and communicative disorders in mainland China and Hong Kong. 
Professor van Hasselt said, 'It is indeed an honour working closely with so many wonderful people in the University. I thoroughly enjoy teaching and supporting members of staff and students to reach their full potential. Life is about making a difference for others and as teachers we are in a privileged position to contribute through education by generously giving to others from our own knowledge and experience. This is the way progress is made.' 
Prof. Joseph Man Chan
Prof. Joseph Man Chan has been serving CUHK for 25 years since he joined the School of Journalism and Communication in 1986. He was director of the School (the then chairman) from 1993 to 1997, and is currently Professor of Journalism and Communication. Professor Chan is a renowned scholar of international communication, political communication and journalism studies, and is the first journalism and communication scholar appointed Changjiang Chair Professorship by the Ministry of Education, PRC. He is a prolific writer and has published in numerous world-class journals and spoken in various international conferences. He co-founded the Communications and Society in 2006 and has been the editor-in-chief since then. He is also currently the chairman of the Hong Kong Press Council and serves in various capacities in public organizations. He was awarded the Medal of Honour by the Hong Kong SAR Government for his contribution to society. 
Over the years, Professor Chan has actively participated in designing and enhancing the curriculum of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes by introducing new courses and elements, making significant contributions to the school's development. To encourage research, he introduced a mentoring programme in which senior faculty members serve as advisors to junior colleagues on research matters. He is also dedicated to teaching and is well-loved by his students. Professor Chan said, 'I'm most delighted to see my students inspired by interactive learning, develop a thirst for knowledge and a dedication to striving for excellence. Teaching no doubt gives me a great sense of satisfaction.' Professor Chan believes teaching should go beyond formal curriculum and thus organizes a bi-weekly luncheon activity Monday.COME with his colleagues, inviting guests to share their life and work experience with students. 
Dr. Lee Kwong-man Simon
Dr. Lee Kwong-man Simon, Scientific Officer, Lee Hysan Clinical Research Laboratories, has a special affinity with CUHK. He started his undergraduate studies in biology at CUHK in 1981, pursued a career in biology upon graduation and completed both master and doctoral degrees at the University, where he also met his wife and held his wedding ceremony at the College Chapel. The Lee Hysan Clinical Research Laboratories were the only central laboratories of the Faculty of Medicine in the early years, playing a crucial role by supporting the research of various departments. Dedicated to his work, Dr. Lee was promoted from a technician to the unit head of the laboratory, contributing to research excellence at the Faculty. He is also a Senior Research Fellow (by courtesy) and has been heavily involved in research with over 100 publications in international biomedical journals. 
Dr. Lee regards CUHK as his home and is keen to take up various posts in the University. He was a tutor of Shaw College and had been the chairman and committee member of the college's staff association for over 10 years. He is also committed to education and is a tutor of the University's master programmes. Dr. Lee said, 'I'm proud to be a part of the CUHK family. As the University's first PhD graduate of the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Prof. Leung Ping-chung and various mentors for their valuable advice and support. It is indeed my honour to grow with the University and the Faculty over the past quarter of a century. I truly wish my daughter and my son will have the chance to study at or to serve CUHK in the future.' 
About Long Service Award
The 25-year Long Service Award, introduced in 1988, consists of a certificate and a gold lapel pin. The 35-year Long Service Award, inaugurated in 2008, has been given to 70 staff members including four this year. Each recipient was bestowed a certificate and a trophy.
