[date]4 August 2011[/date]
[title]World's First Search for the Origins of Barkcloth Culture from an Archaeological Perspective
CUHK Hosts 'Origins of Clothes - Barkcloth' Exhibition
[/title]
The 'Origins of Clothes – Barkcloth' exhibition, co-organized by the Centre for Chinese Archaeology and Art at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Guangdong Provincial Institute of Cultural Relics, and Archaeology and Art Exhibitions China, will be held at the Art Museum on CUHK campus from tomorrow (5 August) to 4 January 2012. This is a popular science exhibition about the search for human's oldest clothes' traces, and is also the world's first search for the origins of barkcloth clothes from an archaeological perspective, which is of great significance. 
The opening ceremony of 'Origins of Clothes – Barkcloth' exhibition was held today (4 August). It was officiated by Prof.Shun Kwong-loi, Director, Institute of Chinese Studies, CUHK; Prof. Wang Wei, Director, Institute of Archaeology, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Ms. Su Guifen, Director General, Administration of Cultural Heritage of Guangdong Province; Prof. Ho Hon-wai, Vice-President,Institute of History and Philology, Academia Sinica; Prof. Hsiung Ping Chen, Faculty of Arts, CUHK; Prof. David Faure, CUHK-CCK Foundation Asia-Pacific Centre for Chinese Studies; Dr. Louis Ng Chi Wah, Assistant Director (Heritage and Museums) of Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Mr. He Bin, Director, Guangdong Provincial Institute of Relics and Archaeology; Prof. Peter Lam, Director, Art Museum, CUHK; and Prof. Tang Chung, Director, Centre for Chinese Archaeology and Art, CUHK. 
Barkcloth clothes is an important branch of the human clothing systems. Academics recently pointed out that the global barkcloth culture might be originated from South China, especially the area from Yunnan to Lingnan. The world's oldest barkcloth clothes making tools, radiocarbon dated to around 7,000 years ago, were unearthed in Hong Kong and Pearl River estuary such as Shenzhen, Zhuhai, etc. This exhibition will show the prominence of Hong Kong’s ancient culture in the world history. 
This exhibition will showcase valuable artefacts of barkcloth stone beaters from Hong Kong, mainland China and Taiwan. This is the second exhibition of the 'Forget Me Not – The Historical Roots of Hong Kong' series following the 'Forget Me Not – the historical roots of Hong Kong and Shenzhen' exhibition last year. 
Public is welcome. Free admission. Details of the exhibition are as below:
Exhibition Period:  5.8.2011 – 4.1.2012
(closed on 24 &amp; 31 December 2011 and public holidays)
Exhibition Venue:  Gallery III &amp; IV, East Wing, Art Museum, CUHK
Opening hours:  Mon to Sun, 10am to 5pm.
Enquiries:  3943 7371
