[date]19 April 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Introduces New Chinese Programme in New Curriculum to Boost Language Skills and Cultural Knowledge
[/title]
The Department of Chinese Language and Literature at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will introduce the new University Chinese programme to tie in with the implementation of the four-year normative undergraduate curriculum in 2012. All undergraduate students will be required to complete this core programme in order to fulfil the University's language requirements. 
Prof. Ho Che-wah, Chairman of the Department of Chinese Language and Literature, said, 'In addition to providing language skills training, the new programme is designed to help students establish a solid foundation in Chinese language through studying ancient and contemporary classics and adopting a faculty-based learning approach. After completing the programme, students will be able to meet the needs of further study and career development. It also aims to equip students with sound knowledge of Chinese literature and cultural traditions, sharpening their intellectual faculty with both breadth and depth of knowledge.' 
The credit requirement of the new University Chinese programme will be increased from 3 credits to 6 credits in the new four-year curriculum. The programme is composed of two courses – University Chinese I and University Chinese II, carrying 3 credits each preferably to be completed in the first year and the second year of study. The course contents are closely integrated to enhance students' language ability in six key areas: language awareness, self-learning strategies, observation, expressiveness, organization, and critical thinking, by incorporating literary and cultural elements in the learning process. 
To Combine Tradition with Modernity
In the new programme, students are required to study ancient and contemporary classics. For example, students from the Faculty of Medicine will study selected essays about the art of healing and ways of nourishing life in ancient China penned by Xi Kang in the third century and Lu Xun in the early twentieth century. Students are expected to have a deeper appreciation of Chinese literature and cultural traditions, and also to understand the relationship between ancient medicine and literature, politics, and society under teachers' guidanceand through interactive classroom discussions. The new programme will also provide training in oral communication and practical writing that ties in with the changing social environment to enhance their Chinese language proficiency in preparation for their careers. 
Faculty-Based Approach to Professional Knowledge Enhancement 
The faculty-based approach is a distinctive feature of the new programme. Different learning themes will be tailor-made for students of different faculties to meet the needs of individual faculties and professions. Students will gain deeper insight into their own discipline.  For example, through studying the motion by Chen Zi'ang and the critical essay by Liu Zongyuan in the Tang Dynasty, students from the Faculty of Law may reflect on the relationship between law and traditional values, thus developing critical thinking skills and having a deeper understanding of law in ancient and modern Chinese society.
Self-learning and Online Interactive Learning
To cultivate the capacity for self-learning and life-long learning among students, an e-learning platform will be available to provide easy access to a wide range of language learning resources, online exercises and self-evaluation tools. Online forums will also be available to encourage interactive discussions among teachers and students. Students will also be able to evaluate each others' assignments. 
Pilot classes of the new University Chinese programme have been conducted since September 2010 and more pilot classes in a larger scale are coming in the 2011–12 academic year. Feedback and comments from teachers and students are collected by questionnaires and regular sharing sessions to refine the programme for its full launch in 2012.
