[date]5 May 2011[/date]
[title]2011 Academia Sinica Academicians Visit Programme cum Lecture Series Successfully Launched[/title]
In order to establish closer partnership with Academia Sinica (AS) particularly in the areas of humanities and social science, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) launched the first AS Academicians Visit Programme. Under this programme, three academicians from AS visited CUHK from 3 to 6 May for academic exchange. They were Prof. Wang Fan-Sen, Vice-President of AS; Prof. Tao Jing-Shen, Fellow, Institute of History and Philology, AS; and Prof. Hsing I-Tien, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of History and Philology, AS. During the visit, they delivered public lectures at the Lecture Series by Academicians, and met with CUHK representatives to discuss possible collaborations in the future. 
The delegates were warmly received by CUHK officers including Prof. Benjamin Wah, Acting Vice-Chancellor; Prof. Jack Cheng and Prof. Henry Wong, Pro-Vice-Chancellors; Prof. Hsiung Ping-chen, Dean of Arts; Prof. Paul Lee, Dean of Social Science; and Prof. Yip Hong-ming, Chair of the Department of History. The delegation also visited the Department of History at the Arts Faculty, the Institute of Chinese Studies, the Research Institute for the Humanities where they met with relevant professors. They also toured the Art Museum of CUHK and other heritage sites in Hong Kong. Representatives from CUHK and AS took the opportunity to exchange ideas and develop collaboration plans. 
The theme of the first 'Lecture Series by Academia Sinica Academicians' was history. The three academicians delivered public lectures and shared their expertise with the audience. Prof. Wang Fan-Sen talked about the history of 1911 Revolution; Prof. Tao Jing-Shen analyzed the foreign policy of Song Dynasty; and Prof. Hsing I-Tien gave a presentation on the resources for Han Studies in Hong Kong. About 200 people including academics, researchers and students from CUHK and other universities as well as members from the general public attended the lectures. 
These public lectures also served as the keynote speeches for the Sixth Annual Conference of the Asian Studies Association of Hong Kong (ASAHK). Established in 2004, ASAHK aims at promoting the development of Asian Studies in Hong Kong and facilitating various areas of studies in Hong Kong, mainland China and Asia. This year, the annual conference of ASAHK was hosted and co-organized by the History Department on CUHK campus, with Prof. Leung Yuen-sang, Professor of History serving as the Chairman of the Organizing Committee. 
For more information about this year's Lecture Series by Academicians, please visit http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/as_2011/.
