[date]11 May 2011[/date]
[title]CUMBA Corporate Social Responsibility Conference 2011
Urging Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Master of Business Administration (MBA) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Conference 2011 was held successfully today (11 May) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center. More than 250 delegates from over 50 organizations of various business domains participated in the conference to share their experience and aspirations of fulfilling social responsibility through responsible business practices.
Themed 'Global Partnership for a Sustainable Future', the Conference covered five timely and important topics: Sustainability in Investment and Business Decisions, Emerging CSR-Related Business, Leading CSR Practitioners, CSR in Mainland China, and CSR Challenges &amp; Issues. Delegates from the business community, NGOs and the academia exchanged their views on CSR fulfillment and explored ways to overcome associated implementation challenges through keynote speeches and discussion panels led by 17 prominent speakers.
Guest-of-honour Ms. Florence Hui, Under Secretary for Home Affairs, HKSAR Government, stressed the importance of CSR awareness among the business community in response to high public expectation. 'Corporations need to understand how to connect their value chain with social needs of the community to realize social responsibility and sustainable development of their business.'
Another guest-of-honour Prof. Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, shared his views on social responsibility. 'Companies are increasingly setting their sights beyond short-term profit to reflect on who they're doing business with, how they're doing it, and what the consequences are. CSR has important implications for corporate governance, risk management, core competence, value creation and sustainable development.'
Keynote speakers of the conference included Mr. Vincent Kwan, Director and General Manager of Hang Seng Indexes Co. Ltd., and Mr. John Sayer, Director General of Oxfam Hong Kong. Mr. Kwan introduced the Corporate Sustainability Index of HSI as having 'vital importance to the development of Hong Kong as a leading international financial centre' since it allows investors to identify visionary corporations that emphasize long-term value for shareholders. Mr. Sayer urged the consolidation of social efforts between corporations and NGOs as a solution to avoid social confrontation.
Other valued guest speakers included representatives from the CLP Holdings Ltd, UBS, KPMG China, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, Sino Group, John Swire &amp; Sons (H.K.) Ltd, Walmart China and the Business Environment Council.
Mr. Angus Wong, president of the conference's organizing committee, expressed his appreciation for the support of all partners in making the occasion successful. He said, 'the tremendous support from the business community to the conference is a good indication that corporations in Hong Kong and mainland China are taking a more positive and active role in considering social responsibility as an element of their operations, which coincides with the global trend and shared values.'
The conference received generous support from the following organizations:
Sponsors
Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
China Metro-Rural Exchange
China South City Holdings Limited
Citibank Hong Kong
Hang Seng Bank Limited
KPMG China
Shun Tak Holdings Limited
Kerry Properties Limited
Gammon Construction Limited
Acumen Paper Limited
Ricoh Hong Kong Limited
Media Partner
Radio Television Hong Kong
Ming Pao Daily News
The Standard Newspapers Publishing Limited
Supporting Organizations
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Asia
CSR Asia
Oxfam Hong Kong
Association for Sustainable &amp; Responsible Investment in Asia (ASRIA)
Business Environment Council (BEC)
Lions Club of Hong Kong (Pacific)
Hong Kong Public Relations Professionals' Association Limited
Hong Kong Institute of Human Resource Management
About CUMBA CSR Conference 2011
Since 2007, CUHK MBA students have been organizing the annual conference on various CSR topics with anaim toraiseawareness on the latest CSR issues among corporations and non-governmental organizations; recognize successful implementation and integration of CSR in their corporate culture; and advocate the importance of CSR in classrooms as well as the real business world in the region.
For more information, please visit http://cumbacsr.baf.cuhk.edu.hk.
