[date]29 May 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Introduces New 4-3-2 English Language Development Model for Four-year Normative Curriculum[/title]
The English language curriculum at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be redesigned to a 4-3-2 language development model for the four-year normative curriculum, keeping abreast of the latest language education development around the world. The English language requirement for undergraduates will increase three-fold in 2012, from the present three credits to nine credits. This constitutes the largest ever increase in, and the greatest amount of, English language required by the University. 
'The three-year, nine-credit 4-3-2 model progresses from English for Academic Purposes (EAP), English for Specific Purposes (ESP) to finally English for Professional Purposes (EPP). Students will have to take English language courses in most of their four years at university rather than in their first year only. This progression will enable CUHK students to graduate with even stronger English language abilities than before, and enable them to take their place in the international and global arena of original and innovative people, processes and products,' said Prof. Andy Curtis, Director of the English Language Teaching Unit. 
English for Academic Purposes (EAP) to Build a Solid Foundation
In the first year, students will take a four-unit Foundation English course which aims to improve the students' abilities to study and to learn in English, whatever their major departments and disciplines. One of the ways in which this Foundation course will be different from the present courses is that the in-class focus will be on the productive language skills of speaking and writing – two areas that are especially challenging for students in Hong Kong, so students will receive focused feedback on their production of spoken and written English in class. In contrast, the out-of-class focus will be on the receptive language skills of reading and listening, which will be carried out with the use of online materials, to help the students become independent, self-directed, life-long language learners. In addition, the Year One Foundation course will require students to produce different types of language output, such as presentations, discussions and academic essays. 
English for Specific Purposes (ESP) to Boost Professionalism
In their second year, students will complete three-credit courses, which are being designed and developed in close collaboration with each of the faculties at CUHK. Each of these courses will be distinctive, and related to the students' major departments and disciplines, e.g. English for Arts, English for Law, English for Medicine, etc. This content-based approach aims to make language learning more meaningful. For example, in a course being designed for medical doctors, students will look at the language required to write-up patient notes in English.
English for Professional Purposes (EPP) to Gear Up for Career Development
In their third year, students will complete two-credit courses that focus on the kinds of English language knowledge, skills and competencies needed to secure employment, and those needed in the workplace. These courses, for example, will include 'job search' components, such as mock interviews and resume-writing, as well as 'workplace English'. Again, these courses are being developed in close collaboration with the different faculties to meet the needs of different professions.