[date]16 May 2011[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Tenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its Tenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony today (16 May) on campus. Eight distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK were conferred honorary fellowships in recognition of their contributions to the University and the community. They are:
The Honourable Mr. Justice Chan Siu Oi Patrick
The Honourable Mr. Justice Chan Siu Oi Patrick was the first locally trained Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal. He has been serving Hong Kong's judiciary for over 20 years and is renowned for his far-reaching contributions towards the development of a bilingual legal system since 1997, bolstering ties between Hong Kong's and the international common law systems, and helping to establish a local legal system with distinctive characteristics. Mr. Justice Chan has also made important contributions towards the education sector. He has been serving as Adjunct Professor of the Department of Social Work in CUHK since 1987, sparing no efforts in nurturing students over the past 20 plus years. He has also been the chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Department of Social Work since 2002, driving the department towards excellence by contributing to course development through his professional knowledge in jurisprudence and his wealth of experience.
Dr. Cheng Shing Lung Edwin
A philanthropic entrepreneur, Dr. Cheng Shing Lung Edwin is the founder of The Jadeite Workshop Limited and a member of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College. Dr. Cheng's distinguished achievements in developing the jade industry have earned him numerous prestigious awards including the World Outstanding Chinese Award by the World Chinese Business Foundation Limited. Presently a vice-chairman of the Board of Directors at Yan Chai Hospital, he has actively participated in community service and was awarded the Chief Executive's Commendation for Community Service in 2010 for his significant contributions. In 2005, Dr. Cheng and his family established the Edwin S.L. Cheng Research Fund for General Education and Philosophy to support the research and development of philosophy and general education programmes at CUHK. His philanthropic spirit and support of the humanities have contributed to the development of the University at large and set a good example for the field of education.
Sir C K Chow
Sir C K Chow, chief executive officer of the MTR Corporation Limited, is an eminent global business leader with a wealth of experience. He has served in the senior management teams of many global companies, and won many awards for his contributions to industry and success in business. He is also a community leader who has made significant contributions to the community by serving in various capacities in public organizations and committees. As a distinguished alumnus of CUHK, Sir C K has made valuable contributions to the University's development, particularly in the appointment of faculty deans and the reorganization of the University Council. He has been a member of the University Council since 2004, and assumed duties as a member of the Board of Trustees of Shaw College, a member of the Committee on Donations and the chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Reorganization of the Council. Sir C K has also been actively involved in and made important impact on CUHK's development in Shenzhen. He was the chairman of the Task Force on the Development in Shenzhen and the Pearl River Delta Region and is currently the chairman of the Task Force on the Second Campus (in Shenzhen).
Ms. Leung Hung Kee
Ms. Leung Hung Kee is a distinguished alumna and benefactor of CUHK. She demonstrated her strong enthusiasm in supporting the local health care and education sectors through sponsorships and offering volunteering support to help the underprivileged in Hong Kong. Ms. Leung has served as a trustee and the vice-chairman of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College at CUHK since 2004 and 2006 respectively. She has provided generous financial support to New Asia College through establishing the Leung Hung Kee Fund and funding a number of scholarships and bursaries to award students who have achieved remarkable academic results or with financial needs. Ms. Leung also rendered gracious support to the School of Chinese Medicine and the Institute of Chinese Medicine for the research and development of Chinese Medicine, and to Lee Woo Sing Hong Kong History Resource Centre of Shaw College for studies undertaken by the Department of History.
Prof. Liu Yingli
Prof. Liu Yingli, Science and Technology Advisor to the Mayor of Shenzhen, has held many key positions since he joined the Shenzhen Municipal Government in 1992, including vice secretary-general, director of Shenzhen High-tech Industrial Park, member of the Standing Committee and executive vice-mayor. He has played key roles in research and management in the hi-technology industry and steered various Hong Kong-Shenzhen collaboration projects, including the construction projects of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong cross-border large-scale infrastructure and the Hong Kong-Shenzhen Western Corridor. He has also actively promoted the establishment of the Shenzhen/Hong Kong Innovation Circle and contributed significantly to technology collaboration between the two cities. Under the guidance of Professor Liu and with his enthusiastic support, CUHK was able to collaborate with the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Shenzhen Municipal Government in establishing and developing the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, and founding the CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute. He has been serving as the Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Engineering since 2008 and as the special adviser to the Vice-Chancellor/President for Shenzhen Affairs since 2009.
Prof. Lo Wai Luen (alias Xiao Si)
Renowned author and outstanding educator Prof. Lo Wai Luen is an alumna of CUHK. She took up a teaching post at the Department of Chinese Language and Literature of CUHK in 1979. She was well-loved by her students and was awarded the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award of CUHK and the Outstanding Educator Award of the Hong Kong Institute of Education. Professor Lo has written numerous books and her works won ‘Ten Recommended Good Books' and 'Secondary Students' Best Ten Books Election'. She also received the Award for Outstanding Contribution in Arts from the Hong Kong Arts Development Council for her contributions to literature and culture. After her retirement in 2002, she served as the Honorary Research Fellow of the Department of Chinese Language and Literature and volunteered to serve as the director of the Hong Kong Literature Research Centre of CUHK. She is currently the adviser of the Centre and Adjunct Professor of the Centre for East Asian Studies. In support of literature development, she has generously donated her private collections of books, journals, as well as other archival materials to the University Library.
Prof. Tam Sheung Wai
Prof. Tam Sheung Wai is currently President Emeritus of The Open University of Hong Kong (OUHK) and Emeritus Professor of Chemistry, CUHK. Professor Tam is a veteran teacher, researcher and university administrator with nearly 40 years of experience and has made remarkable contributions to the higher education sector. He has rendered long and distinguished service to CUHK for over three decades since he firstly joined the Department of Chemistry in 1965. He served in different important positions, including member of the University Council, pro-vice-chancellor, president and head of Chung Chi College, and dean of Graduate School. During his tenure as the president of OUHK, the university has become a prominent adult and distance education centre in the region. His valuable contribution to the promotion of lifelong learning has earned him numerous accolades, including OBE, Gold Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government, and the ‘Prize of Excellence for Individuals' by the International Council for Open and Distance Education.
Mr. Tchou Ming Kong Larry
Mr. Tchou Ming Kong Larry is a distinguished expert in the hotel industry and Adjunct Associate Professor of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at CUHK. He joined the Hyatt Regency Hong Kong in 1970 and was promoted to Managing Director of Hyatt International-Asia Pacific Limited with responsibilities for the company’s operations and development in Asia and the Pacific. Dedicated to vocational education and training, Mr. Tchou took up various positions at the Vocational Training Council of the HKSAR Government, and has served as chairman of Hong Kong Hotels Association and vice-chairman of Hong Kong Employees Retraining Board. He was conferred Honorary Fellow and Outstanding Honorary Award by the Vocational Training Council for his contributions to the profession. He has been chairman of the Advisory Committee on Hotel and Tourism Management of CUHK since 2002 and contributed significantly to the development of the School by fostering collaboration between the industry and the School, strengthening curriculum design, and maximizing employment opportunities for the graduates.
