[date]29 July 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development Hosts Inaugural Conference on 'The Renminbi's Changing Status and the Chinese and Hong Kong Financial System(s)'
Now Open for Registration
[/title]
The Law Faculty of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has created a Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development (CFRED). CFRED will present its inaugural conference on 'The Renminbi's Changing Status and the Chinese and Hong Kong Financial System(s)' on 11-13 August, 2011 in Hong Kong. Panel members include Ms. Julia Leung, Under Secretary for Financial Services &amp; the Treasury, HKSAR Government; Prof. Joseph Yam, Distinguished Research Fellow of The Institute of Global Economics and Finance at CUHK and former Chair of Hong Kong Monetary Authority; and Mr. André Meier, IMF Resident Representative in HKSAR.  Interested parties may visit the website https://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2011conference/cfred/registration.php for online registration. 
The conference will bring together twenty prominent scholars, regulators, bankers and lawyers from around the world to discuss how China's gradual capital account liberalization and the growing role of Hong Kong as a leading offshore centre for RMB will affect the international monetary system, the balance of international trade, the shape of the world's banking system and securities markets, and the future monetary system of Hong Kong. 
Details are as follows:  

Topic:
'The Renminbi's Changing Status and the Chinese and Hong Kong Financial System(s)'

Date:
Thursday to Saturday, 11-13 August 2011

Venue:
2/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central, Hong Kong, CUHK Graduate Law Centre

Programme rundown and speaker' list is attached.

About CFRED
The Faculty of Law of The Chinese University of Hong Kong formed the Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development (CFRED) to support and facilitate research in all areas of law affecting commerce and business dealings, including the fields of banking law, capital markets, commercial law, contract law, corporate law, investment law, intellectual property, securities regulation, international trade law, tax law, and any other economically focused area of law in which a member of the CUHK Law Faculty addresses his or her research. 
CFRED organizes and holds conferences, workshops, seminars and colloquia. It manages the CFRED Working Paper Series and serves as a vehicle to organize team research projects and seek funding for the latter. 
CFRED actively seeks affiliations and collaborations with leading research centres and institutes located worldwide that pursue aims similar or complementary to its own, whether those centres or institutes be in universities, the public sector or privately managed. In particular, CFRED aims to have solid links in each of four economic areas: China, Asia generally, Europe and North America.
