[date]4 July 2011[/date]
[title]Naming Ceremony of Run Run Shaw Science Building at CUHK Held Today[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is pleased to have named its centralized laboratory building as the Run Run Shaw Science Building.  The naming ceremony today (4 July)  was officiated by Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the University Council, and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK.  The building is named after Dr. the Honourable Run Run Shaw in recognition of his staunch support of and wise counsel to CUHK over the years.  The University also thanked Mrs. Mona Shaw, Chairman of The Shaw Foundation Hong Kong Limited, for gracing the naming ceremony with her presence. 
Vice-Chanellor Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung expressed his deepest appreciation to Dr. Shaw for his unfailing support to CUHK's development over the years, and praised Dr. Shaw for his support to education and research and for his loving care for students, 'Dr. Shaw's achievements and contributions to society are exemplary for the young generation.  The Run Run Shaw Science Building is a state-of-the-art centralized science laboratory building.  It is most appropriate to name the building after Dr. Shaw, to signify his tremendous contribution to education and scientific research.  As we come to our 50th anniversary, the University is deeply grateful for the continuous support from Dr. Shaw and The Shaw Foundation Hong Kong Limited.  We will continue to strive for academic and research excellence, to further contribute to the betterment of mankind.’ 
Dr. Shaw's long association with CUHK began over four decades ago when he became a member of the Board of Trustees of United College in 1967.  After serving as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of United College and a member of the University Council for many years, Dr. Shaw was appointed a Life Member of the University Council, and Honorary Chairman and Life Member of the Board of Trustees of United College in 1992.  Since 1967, the various generous donations from Dr. Shaw to the University have made possible many projects, particularly the creation of a fourth College—Shaw College—with a donation of HK$110 million in 1986, at that time the largest single private contribution to an educational institution in Hong Kong history.  He also endowed a large auditorium and an academic building.  Dr. Shaw and The Shaw Foundation Hong Kong Limited made a magnanimous donation of shares of Television Broadcasts Limited of about HK$100 million in value to CUHK in support of the University's development, as well as scholarships and bursaries for the students of Shaw College in April this year. 
Located on a hillside on the central campus of CUHK, the Run Run Shaw Science Building is a six-storey structure with a gross floor area of 11,000 sq.m., housing over 70 world-class and state-of-the-art laboratories for the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Medicine, including their School of Life Sciences and School of Biomedical Sciences.  It is the first building in Hong Kong with an original design that caters for scientific experimental needs in a manner that complies with the strictest international standards.  The innovative design takes into equal consideration the needs of scientific research and environmental friendliness, and the building is constructed to maximize user safety while conserving energy.  The undulating curve of the southern façade is made of laminated coloured glass.  The abstract colour pattern was inspired by the periodic table of elements to symbolize the importance of science to mankind.  The panels of the façade were made of glass with high light transmission to let in natural lighting, reducing the need for artificial illumination during daytime.  Its layout is also conducive to interaction between the different academic specialties and among scholars, facilitating interdisciplinary research and collaborations.  Now a landmark of the University, the building has won the 2006 Hong Kong Institute of Architects Merit Award—Community Building Category for its superior architectural design. 
CUHK excels as a comprehensive research university in the international arena, with remarkable achievements in education and research.  The construction of the Run Run Shaw Science Building has boosted the University's research strengths by providing state-of-the-art laboratories and facilities for various scientific research areas, including green catalysis, nanomaterials, transgenic cells, medicinal chemistry, plant science, blood pressure, diabetic embryopathy and prostate cancer The building brings outstanding researchers and specialists from different fields under one roof and makes possible many top-notch and award-winning research projects, including 'Integrative Research on Molecular Basis and Potential Targets for Gastric Cancer', 'Cholesterol-lowering and Cardiovascular Functional Foods and Nutraceuticals' and 'Molecular Characterization of Plant Prevacuolar and Endosomal Compartments', all three winning the Ministry of Education's Higher Education Outstanding Scientific Research Output Awards (Science and Technology) in the category of Natural Sciences; as well as 'Experimental Studies of Turbulent Thermal Convection', a winning project of the State Natural Science Award.
 
For more photos, please visit: 
http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=11&amp;s=
