[date]15 June 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Hau Kit-tai as Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Prof. Dennis Ng as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has approved the appointment of Prof. Hau Kit-tai as Pro-Vice-Chancellor for two years from 1 August 2011. He succeeds Prof. Kenneth Young who will continue to be Professor of Physics and also Master of C.W. Chu College. The University Council is deeply grateful to Professor Young for his dedicated service and exceptional contributions in the last 17 years as Pro-Vice-Chancellor. Professor Hau will join Provost Prof. Benjamin W. Wah and Pro-Vice-Chancellors Prof. Jack Chun-yiu Cheng, Prof. Pak-chung Ching, Prof. Michael King-man Hui, Prof. Henry Nai-ching Wong and Prof. Xu Yangsheng in assisting the Vice-Chancellor to manage the University. The University has also appointed Prof. Dennis Kee-pui Ng as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for three years from 1 August 2011. 
Prof. Hau Kit-tai Appointed Pro-Vice-Chancellor
Prof. Hau Kit-tai is Professor of Educational Psychology and Chairman of University Extension Board at CUHK. Joining CUHK in 1988, he had been the Chairman of the Department of Educational Psychology for 13 years and is currently the President of the Educational Psychology Division, International Association of Applied Psychology. He received his BSc and MA degrees from CUHK and pursued further studies at the University of Hong Kong where he received his PhD degree. 
Professor Hau is also a member of various university committees, including the University Academic Personnel Committee, Board of Trustees of Shaw College and Senate Committee on Teaching and Learning.A former Dean of Students of Shaw College, Professor Hau has been keen on promoting whole-person education among students. ‘I always encourage students to learn through participation in extra-curricular activities and making errors. “By ignorance we err, and by errors we learn.” The university is an ideal place for students to build their character, develop skills in a variety of non-academic areas and grow into well-rounded and mature individuals to contribute to society.’ Professor Hau is grateful to Prof. Kenneth Young for having led the preparation for the new four-year curriculum. In future, Professor Hau will join hands with colleagues to further enhance the academic development of the University, bringing teaching and learning at CUHK to new heights. 
Professor Hau’s research interest includes motivation, self-concept and quantitative methods and he has published extensively in major international academic journals. He also spares no effort in enhancing education in Hong Kong by actively serving on various government and community advisory boards in curriculum and youth development. Over the last 15 years, he has conducted over 80 national advanced applied statistics workshops in mainland China to promote empirical research. 
Prof. Dennis Kee-pui Ng Appointed Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor
Prof. Dennis Kee-pui Ng is currently University Dean of Students and professor at the Department of Chemistry. He was appointed asAssociate Pro-Vice-Chancellorand re-appointed as University Dean of Students for three years commencing 1 August 2011. Professor Ng obtained his BSc and MPhil degrees from CUHK and in 1993 he obtained a DPhil degree from the University of Oxford. He is a Fellow and Chartered Chemist of the Royal Society of Chemistry and a Chartered Scientist of the Science Council, UK. He has published about 140 publications in international journals and received the Young Researcher Award of the University. Professor Ng has also made significant contributions to curriculum development and assessment in Hong Kong’s secondary education by participating in various government committees. 
Professor Ng said, ‘The University will encounter many new challenges in the coming few years.  I wish to further strengthen communications with students and work closely with colleagues to provide a superior learning environment for students, fostering their whole-person development.’
Joining CUHK in 1994, Professor Ng is well-loved by his students and has received the Faculty Exemplary Teaching Award twice as well as The Vice-Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award. Dedicated to promoting student development, Professor Ng was Associate Dean (Student Affairs) of the Faculty of Science and is currently the chairman of the Senate Staff-Student Consultative Committee, Committee on Student Affairs and the 334 Subgroup on Student Support and Development, etc.
