[date]6 July 2011[/date]
[title]Leading Economist Prof. Mark R. Rosenzweig to Speak at CUHK
Public Lecture Now Open for Registration
[/title]
Prof. Mark R. Rosenzweig, renowned economist and Frank Altschul Professor of International Economics, Department of Economics, and Director of Economic Growth Center at Yale University, is visiting The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) as Visiting Professor of the Faculty of Social Science.  He will deliver a public lecture on 'The International Flow of Migrants: Causes and Consequences' during his visit.  Members of the public are welcome to join the lecture.  For registration, please contact the Department of Economics, CUHK, at 3943-8191 (Ms. Christine Li) / 3943-8190 (Ms. Vicky Wong), email at econgrad@cuhk.edu.hk, or fax at 2603-5805. 
Synopsis
This lecture will consider the forces affecting the flow of migrants across the world with particular attention to skilled migrants and those acquiring skill via migration - foreign students.  Among the questions considered are how much do wages differ across comparable workers around the world?  How can we measure the returns to skill across countries?  How much of the global inequality in average wages is due to differences in average skills (education) across countries or the value of (payment for) skills in each country?  How do differences in the value of skills across countries affect the number and quality (skill) of immigrants who go to high-wage countries (e.g. US and Australia)?  What motivates students to migrate to study in high-wage countries - the quality of schools or jobs?  What fraction of students who study abroad does not return?  What is the impact of the migration of skilled persons and students to high-wage countries on poorer sending countries?
 Biography of Prof. Mark R. Rosenzweig
Professor Rosenzweig is currently co-Principal Investigator of the New Immigrant Survey, the first and only representative panel survey of legal immigrants in the US.  He has published extensively on immigration using data from the survey  An article he co-authored on legal and illegal immigrants has won the Distinguished Contribution to Scholarship in Population from the Population Section of the American Sociological Association in 2009. 
Professor Rosenzweig received his PhD in economics from Columbia University in 1973.  Prior to moving to Yale in 2005, he was the Mohamed Kamal Professor of Public Policy at John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, and Director of The Center for International Development. 
Professor Rosenzweig has written extensively on issues in economic development, human capital, migration and demography. He has edited two handbooks of economics, The Handbook of Population and Family Economics, with Oded Stark (Elsevier, 1996), and The Handbook of Development Economics, Volume 5, with Dani Rodrik (Elsevier, 2010).  He has also co-authored a book on US immigration, The New Chosen People: Immigrants in the United States, with Guillermina Jasso (Russel Sage, 1990).  He has published over 100 articles in books and scholarly journals, including American Economic Review, Journal of Political Economy, Econometrica, Review of Economic Studies, and Quarterly Journal of Economics.  His professional honours include citations in Who's Who in the World, Who’s Who in America, and Who’s Who in Economics. He has received research grants from National Science Foundation and  National Institutes of Health. 
In recognition of his outstanding achievements in econometrics and human capital research, Professor Rosenzweig was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994 and a fellow of the Society of Labor Economists in 2009.  He was the editor-in-chief of Journal of Development Economics (2005- 2009), and has been on the editorial boards of Journal of Economic Literature and Review of Economics and Statistics. He was also a member of National Academy of Sciences Committee on Human Dimensions of Global Change (1998-2004), the panel on New Research on Population and the Environment (2003-2004) and the External Advisory Panel, International Monetary Fund (2004-2007). 
Details of Professor Rosenzweig's lecture are as follows:  

Topic:
The International Flow of Migrants: Causes and Consequences

Date:
Wednesday, 13 July 2011

Time:
11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.

Venue:
LT 4, Cheng Yu Tung Building, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin (adjacent to Hyatt Regency Hong Kong, Shatin, outside the University MTR station)

Language:
English

Enquiries:
Ms. Christine Li: 3943-8191 / Ms. Vicky Wong: 3943-8190, Department of Economics, Faculty of Social Science, CUHK 
