[date]24 October 2011[/date]
[title]Developing Global Business Leaders for the Asian Century
CUHK’s EMBA Ranks No. 14 Worldwide, No. 1 Independent EMBA in the Asia-Pacific Again[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Executive MBA Programme scored another success in the Financial Times 2011 ranking of EMBA programmes released today.
In its latest global survey of 100 EMBA Programmes worldwide, the London-based Financial Times ranked CUHK’s EMBA Programme No. 14 in 2011. The programme has been consistently ranked top amongst all independent programmes in the Asia-Pacific region. This year it was again ranked No. 1.
'We are very pleased to see the good performance,’ said Prof. Andrew C. F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme. ‘We were the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and are a truly made-in-Hong Kong product.  The CUHK EMBA programme is now looking ahead to the next phase in its history, and the new image highlights its plans for expanding and refining its curriculum; building on its track record of cutting edge research and teaching excellence; and deepening its commitment to the people and business of Hong Kong and the region.’
The programme scored high in areas such as alumni salary today, salary increase, work experience, international students, international faculty and international advisory board. Alumni salary is the 3rd highest in the world. The average annual salary is as high as HK$2,152,000. The programme’s alumni also achieved a high salary increase rate of 57%.
'As always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit,’ Professor Chan said. ‘What is important is maintaining our ability to nurture top-notch management talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the region.’
'We will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory and practice, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place,’ he remarked. ‘Since 2002, we have enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders.’
Professor Chan noted that the programme has ‘co-organized with RTHK the popular "Talking to CEOs" and the "New Thinking in Management" series. The "Talking to CEOs" programme has been constantly broadcast on RTHK and other TV channels, and the "New Thinking in Management" programme is aired live every Sunday afternoon on RTHK’s Radio One. To reach a broader audience, the content of these programmes as well as that of our EMBA Forum, Conference, Seminars, etc. is regularly published in the form of books, DVDs, CDs and newspaper and magazine articles. Some of the published books have been converted to e-books so the public can access them easily.’
Professor Chan continued: ‘We partnered with the EMBA Programmes of Peking University and the National Taiwan University to conduct the first “Greater China EMBA Elite Study Week” in Hong Kong in May this year. We strategically provided a platform for the three groups of EMBA students in Greater China to interact and develop friendships. The week was the first of its kind conducted worldwide,’ he said.
To enable students to develop a global perspective and interact with senior executives in different parts of the world, the programme will also continue to organize global study trips. Professor Chan said that ‘in August, the students completed a global study programme at Stanford University. They’ll attend another global field study in another place next year.’
About The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)
The Chinese University of Hong Kong was established in 1963, from the amalgamation of three existing colleges. The university has 62 academic departments organized under eight faculties (arts, business administration, education, engineering, law, medicine, science and social science). Within these 62 departments are 117 undergraduate programs and 247 postgraduate programs. A bilingual, multicultural institution, the university currently has 23,000 students. CUHK ranked no. 37 in the QS World University Rankings 2011. Professor Joseph JY Sung is the university’s Vice-Chancellor and President, and Professor Benjamin W Wah is the Provost.
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management – and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, and Marketing. It was Hong Kong’s first business school offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the school offers 10 undergraduate programs and 31 graduate programs (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD).
CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (21,000+) in Hong Kong – many of whom are key business leaders. The faculty currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Professor TJ Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School.
