[date]10 October 2011[/date]
[title]Symposium on Gender Equality Policies in Asia and Europe 2011
Public is Welcome
[/title]
A symposium on 'Gender Equality Policies in Asia and Europe' will take place on 15 October at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The symposium is jointly organized by the Office of the European Union (EU) to Hong Kong and Macao, the Consulates General of the EU Member States and Gender Research Centre (GRC), Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies of CUHK. 
The EU and GRC share the same belief that, fostering gender equality in policy-making is an indispensable direction to promote equal treatment for men and women. In the symposium, experts from European countries and Asian countries would be brought together to explore the implementation aspects of the gender policies in their jurisdictions, to share and discuss their experiences and difficulties in planning and enforcing gender equality and family policies. Policy makers, business leaders, NGO workers and academics are welcome to join. The symposium will be conducted primarily in English, with sessions of speeches and discussions.  
The EU is committed to promoting equal treatment for men and women, and strengthening women's role by fostering gender equality in policy-making. Experts in gender equality from EU member countries, Finland and the Netherlands will share their insights on effective family policies and the safeguard of women's rights at the symposium. 
CUHK has been a pioneer in promoting gender research and gender studies. GRC is the first local research centre on gender and women's studies. The Gender Studies Programme at the Faculty of Social Science offers the only academic programme on gender studies available in Hong Kong. 
Details of the Symposium are as follows:

Date:
15 October 2011
Time:
9:00 a.m. – 12:35 p.m.
Venue:
Lecture Hall 1, Cheng Yu Tung Building, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (adjacent to University MTR Station)
Downloading of application form:
http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkiaps/grc/form/EU_GRC%20symposium_reg%20form.doc
Email:
grcentre@cuhk.edu.hk
Tel:
3943-8775 (Ms. Sally Lo)

                
