[date]26 October 2011[/date]
[title]Overseas Alumni to Get Latest University Info on the Go
Through CUHK Mobile App
[/title]
With the rapid advancement in communication technology and the immense popularity of smart phones, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) launched the app 'CUHK Mobile' earlier this month. It has been very well received with over 4,000 downloads within a few weeks. CUHK Mobile offers comprehensive information with an exquisite design, allowing the public to know more about CUHK and alumni to get connected with their alma mater; overseas alumni can also easily get access to information and the latest news of the University. 
Comprehensive information and latest news
CUHK Mobile allows alumni to check out the latest news and announcements, campus events and feature stories. One may also search the telephone numbers of various teaching and administrative units through the telephone directory and get connected with just one click. The campus photo gallery and videos, as well as CUHK on iTunes U which shares academic resources, are also available for users to keep abreast of the University's happenings. Alumni who have applied for the Library Card may even login to the University Library System for searching resources and checking his or her borrowing record. 
Interactive campus map with GPS
With the continuous development of the University, alumni who plan to visit the alma mater may not be familiar with some new buildings on campus. CUHK Mobile offers an interactive campus map in the Global Positioning System format. By simply viewing or inputting the name of the destination, the exact location will quickly appear. An image of the destination will also be shown upon a single click, allowing users to easily identify the objects of their search. The shuttle bus timetable is another useful function which shows the positions of the stops, and the time for the next service, greatly facilitating transport on campus.  
CUHK Mobile is now available on AppStore for free in both traditional Chinese and English versions, and is applicable to iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad. Please act now to download it and get the latest updates from your alma mater!
