[date]11 November 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Morningside College Inaugurates New Campus[/title]
Morningside College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) celebrated the Inauguration of its new campus today (11 November). Officiating at the inauguration ceremony were Dr. Gerald L. Chan, Director, Morningside Foundation and Chairman, Committee of Overseers, Morningside College; Mr. Ronnie C. Chan, Director, Morningside Foundation; Prof. Ambrose Y.C. King, former Vice-Chancellor and Emeritus Professor of Sociology, CUHK; Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the Council, CUHK; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President, CUHK; and Prof. Sir James A. Mirrlees, 1996 Nobel Laureate in Economics and Master of Morningside College, CUHK. 
Over 400 guests of the College joined the ceremony to witness its inauguration. They were welcomed by the Hong Kong Police Band at its main entrance, as they proceeded towards the ceremonial venue where the students in College gowns had assembled. Guests were entertained to luncheon in the College Dining Hall where they were joined by the students after the ceremony.  
Morningside College was founded in May 2006, and accepted its first cohort of students in September 2010. With a maximum intake of only 300 students, it is the first small college of the University by design, and aims to create a congenial and caring environment in which both students and teachers can maintain frequent contact, and foster a close sense of belonging. A fully residential college with communal dining, the College's self-contained living facilities is designed to cultivate students’ engagement and participation and enable them to share together the joy of learning and discovery.  Prof. Sir James A. Mirrlees, College Master, remarked, 'Morningside College enjoys a unique student body for being diverse and highly international. This multicultural diversity helps nurture students for their future in an international arena, equipping them with greater cultural sensitivity and a global perspective. The College will also open the way to independent ideas and creativity. All students have that potential and we mean to release it.’ 
The College recognizes that, nowadays, the worth of a university student no longer depends on academic performance alone. Involvement in extra-curricular activities, displaying athletic and creative talent, and demonstrating personal integrity and cultural awareness are all yardsticks for measuring a student's accomplishment. CUHK's college system – a feature unique among local universities – is a significant and prized contributor to efforts that will provide whole-person development for the students. General education and informal learning are both emphasized at the College, which will work hand in hand with the University to broaden the perspective and raise the competence of students under its care. Dr. Gerald Chan, Director of Morningside Foundation and Chairman of the Committee of Overseers of the College, echoed this view at the inauguration ceremony, sharing that it is of paramount importance for students to be able to think critically and creativelyas they are being prepared to meet future challenges. 
In addition,Morningside College aspires to becoming a model of excellence in the liberal arts tradition of undergraduate education. It is distinguished by its commitment to service and intellectual inquiry, distinctly international character, and the highly participatory nature of its activities. As such, students closely interact with College Fellows and distinguished visitors from a broad range of professions and academic disciplines within the University and the wider world, through mentorship programmes and communal dinners during term time. Morningside students are also expected to shoulder social responsibility through participation in various volunteer services at both local and international levels, taking part in the activities of NGOs and civic organizations. They are encouraged to participate enthusiastically in the college and offer ideas, inspiration and leadership in college activities. 
Morningside College has received generous financial support from its donors, enabling it to build its beautiful new campus, and bring to fruition its many goals of excellence.
