[date]11 October 2011[/date]
[title]Chinese University of Hong Kong rebrands Faculty of Business Administration
Faculty has new logo and will be known as CUHK Business School[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong announced today that the Faculty of Business Administration has been rebranded with a new, refreshed logo that not only reflects its heritage as Hong Kong’s oldest business school, but is an external manifestation of the cutting-edge research and teaching excellence that it brings to developing global business leaders for the Asian century. As part of the rebrand, the faculty will become known as CUHK Business School.
CUHK Business School offers the city’s oldest and most established MBA program and its Executive MBA is ranked no.10 in the world by the Financial Times. The Business School is now looking ahead to the next phase in its history, and the new image highlights its plans for expanding and refining its curriculum; building on its track record of cutting edge research and teaching excellence; and deepening its commitment to the people and business of Hong Kong and the region.
“The new brand is one component of a wider drive to communicate the strengths of our research and teaching,” said Professor TJ Wong, Dean of CUHK Business School and Professor of Accountancy, Chinese University of Hong Kong. “It’s not just about a new logo, but about curriculum development – ensuring that the Business School offers a coherent set of programs to develop the next generation of global business leaders for the Asian century.”
One of the top Asian business schools, CUHK provides faculty members with unrivalled expertise and connections. It has prestigious collaborative programs with mainland Chinese universities including: an MBA in Finance with Tsinghua University and an Executive Masters in Accountancy with Shanghai National Accounting Institute. It also has major expansion plans and intends to be the first Hong Kong business school with a dedicated campus in mainland China.
“The Asian century is not simply about growth rates, but about different cultures and business models,” said Professor Wong. ”Many institutions claim to serve as a bridge to China, but none has our unique heritage and presence. As we expand in China, we are offering international students unprecedented insight into the workings of Chinese business.
“Just as Stanford and Berkeley played a key role in the creation of Silicon Valley, we aim to be the next Stanford or Berkeley of China to help the development of the Pearl River Delta. The Pearl River Delta’s entrepreneurial spirit has driven Chinese growth, but the region now needs to move up the value chain. CUHK Business School has a key role to play in regional development.”
Last year, the University Grants Committee called for Hong Kong’s universities to bridge East and West, connect to the economic development of the Pearl River Delta, adopt a flexible approach to the language of tuition and foster greater international exchange of both staff and students.
“The standing of any business school resides in the connections between its faculty, students, alumni, employers and the wider community,” said Michael Wong, Director &amp; Group Principal Advisor, Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and CUHK Business School alumnus. “CUHK has a proud track record in this regard, including the largest and best connected group of business school alumni in Hong Kong. The new brand reflects that heritage and I am confident that its introduction will help the business school to move forward from strength to strength.”
John Chu, Executive Vice President and Group Chief Investment Officer of AIA Group Limited, and CUHK Business School alumnus added: “The new global economy will need business leaders with a very strong understanding of East and West and who know how to use such insights effectively in their dealings. CUHK Business School is uniquely placed to instil such understanding, and to develop the professional and leadership skills that employers seek.” 
About Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)
Chinese University of Hong Kong was established in 1963, from the amalgamation of three existing colleges. The university has 62 academic departments organized under eight faculties (arts, business administration, education, engineering, law, medicine, science and social science). Within these 62 departments are 117 undergraduate programs and 247 postgraduate programs. A bilingual, multicultural institution, the university currently has 23,000 students. CUHK ranked no. 37 in the QS World University Rankings 2011. Professor Joseph JY Sung is the university’s Vice-Chancellor and President, and Professor Benjamin W Wah is the Provost.
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management – and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, and Marketing. It was Hong Kong’s first business school offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the school offers 10 undergraduate programs and 31 graduate programs (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD).
In the Financial Times’ 2010 global rankings, CUHK’s EMBA program is at no. 10. CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (21,000+) in Hong Kong – many of whom are key business leaders. The faculty currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Professor TJ Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School. 
For more information, please contact:
Ian Fok: 852 3114 6335 ifok@consultancy-pr.com.hk
Tom Engel: 852 3114 6337 tengel@consultancy-pr.com.hk
Lydia Huang: 852 3943 1842 lydiahuang@baf.cuhk.edu.hk
