[date]10 September 2011[/date]
[title]'Technologies Enhancing Patient Care in the Community'
CUHK Kicks Off Public Education Programme to Showcase Achievements in Computer Assisted Surgery and Clinical Management
[/title]
With advancement in computer and engineering technologies, computer assisted surgery (CAS) has been widely applied in different surgical sub-specialties in the past decade. The Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) have been cooperating to pioneer different CAS techniques in clinical management and various surgical specialties for improving patient care. Department of Orthopaedics &amp; Traumatology and Department of Surgery at CUHK have been actively implementing various innovative ideas and concepts in CAS research and development since 2000, including the application of CAS in the treatment of orthopaedic diseases like injuries, degenerative and tumour conditions, and general surgical diseases in urology and upper gastrointestinal system. CUHK has made great strides in the development of computer assisted surgery in the past 10 years, particularly in the enhancement of detailed pre-operative planning, precise intraoperative execution and the promotion of minimally invasive surgery to a higher standard.
As a pioneer in CAS with notable achievements, CUHK is organizing a public education programme including open lectures and exhibition to transfer related knowledge to the general public and share its accomplishments in CAS research and development. The programme is launched in collaboration with Hong Kong Science Museum (HKSM), Leisure and Cultural Services Department of the HKSAR Government, in view of the increasing demand from the public for better patient care with safer procedures including minimally invasive procedures, and promoting CAS development. The opening ceremony was held at the Hong Kong Science Museum today (10 September), officiated by Dr. NG C.W. Louis, Assistant Director, Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Professor SUNG J.Y. Joseph, Vice-Chancellor and President, CUHK; Mr. LEUNG Wing-mo, Assistant Director, Hong Kong Observatory; Professor YUE On-ching, Science Advisor, Innovation and Technology Commission; Professor FOK Tai-fai, Dean, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK and representatives from CUHK.
In a series of public lectures, professors from the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Engineering share their invaluable experience with the public, followed by interactive discussions. Abstracts of individual talk are listed below:
Bio-Engineering the Human Machine 
Illustrating current technologies to engineer the human machine and the ways in which biomedical engineering pushes the frontier of science and engineering
Computer Assisted Orthopaedic Surgery(CAOS) : Past, Present and the Future
Summarising the development and the state of arts of CAOS with illustrations from different types of surgery in the application of technologies in orthopaedics and traumatology 
Development of Upper GI Surgery: from minimal to non-invasive approach 
Illustrating minimally invasive surgery and  natural orifices transluminal endoscopic surgery 
Robot Assisted Urology Surgery 
Illustrating the advantages of surgical robots and related development
Interactive Weight-bearing Exercise (iWE) Technology : From Research to Application 
Illustrating the use of vibration stimulation to increase bone density and enhance muscle strength, thus expediting rehabilitation period after surgical operations and preventing successive fragility fracture 
Navigation Assisted Neurosurgery: Brain Tumor Surgery
Illustrating the implementation of neuronavigation in large cranial base lesions 
Wearable Systems and Their Applications on Cardiovascular Diseases
Illustrating the concept of the p-Health paradigm to predict the occurrence of fatal cardiovascular diseases by wearing bioinformation detectable sensors 
Exhibition panels at Science News Corner (SNC) of HKSM show the various applications of innovative technologies into efficient ward management, significant outcomes after surgical treatment and better healthcare lifestyle. The exhibition runs from September 10, 2011 till March 31, 2012. Moreover, exhibition booths at the Lobby of HKSM provide instant face-to-face demonstration of surgical equipment and techniques in real life. Highlights of the display items include the equipment designed and developed in CUHK,e.g. active-passive surgical robot,Smartward system and endoscopic suturing device - Eagle Claw.
A series of professional training workshops focusing on trauma navigation and tumor surgery are also conducted at the Orthopaedic Learning Centre (OLC), Prince of Wales Hospital specially catered for orthopaedic surgeons, nurses and engineering specialists.
With ten years of experience, it is high time for the Faculty of Medicine to review its work as well as to help the public at large to know more about this technology. The Faculty also hopes that this event will motivate more talents to take up research and development of the ever advancing technologies for better patient care.
