[date]25 November 2011[/date]
[title]Foundation Stone Laid for CW Chu College at CUHK
A New College for Young Adults to Realize Their Potential and for Scholars to Engage with the World
[/title]
CW Chu College, one of the five new colleges of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) established during 2006-07, held its Foundation Stone Laying Ceremony today (25 November). The ceremony, attended by about 150 friends, mentors, Chu Scholars, College Fellows and teachers, marked the commencement of the college construction work. Officiating at the ceremony were Mr. David Chu, Director, CW Chu Foundation; Dr. Peter Yip, Member, Planning Committee, CW Chu College, CUHK; Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the Council, CUHK; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; and Prof. Kenneth Young, Master, CW Chu College, CUHK. 
In his opening address, Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung expressed his gratitude to Mr. David Chu, the eldest son of Dr. CW Chu and a Director of the CW Chu Foundation, for his generous support, and also to Dr. Peter Yip, a member of the College's Planning Committee and a past beneficiary of the scholarships provided by the late Dr. CW Chu, for initiating and supporting the establishment of the College. Professor Sung also thanked The Lanson Foundation and Dr. Ina Chan for their major donations to support the construction of the college campus.  
Professor Sung spoke about his expectations of the College, 'In the fall of 2012, the College will be welcoming its first batch of students. These founding students will join the College's enthusiastic team to shape the College's character.'
Mr. David Chu shared in his speech the vision of Dr. CW Chu in supporting young men and women to study abroad in the 1970s, and voiced his wish, on behalf of the CW Chu Foundation, that the students of the College will be inspired by Dr. Chu's spirit to contribute to society.  
'I am proud of being one of the Chu Scholars (朱仔), like many others present today. What I have learnt from Mr. CW Chu is his sincerity, passion and unwavering commitment. It was his dedication to help provide education to many of us that changed our lives, giving us opportunities to serve society,' shared Dr. Peter Yip, a Chu Scholar who initiated and supported the establishment of the College. 
Prof. Kenneth Young, Master of the College, introduced the vision and mission of the College. The Fellows and teachers are committed to building a community that will be intimate, international, intellectual and involved. The first cohort of 75 students will be admitted in summer 2012, and will be enrolled into the new curriculum. They will be able to enjoy full residence on campus for all four years, and will participate in communal dining.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;1=1&amp;id=38&amp;s=