[date]1 December 2011[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds its 69th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 69th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees (Congregation) today (1 December). Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, presided at the Congregation and conferred all Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees; and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor, presented awards to 26 outstanding teachers and researchers in recognition of their achievements.
University Grants Committee Teaching Award 2011
This year, The University Grants Committee (UGC) established the UGC Teaching Award to honour academics in the UGC-funded institutions for their teaching performance and achievements, as well as their leadership in and scholarly contribution to teaching and learning within and across institutions. Prof. Poon Wai-yin, Faculty of Science, and Dr. Wong Wing-hung, General Education, CUHK, were among the 16 outstanding nominees from various institutions, and Professor Poon was one of the two award recipients. The Selection Panel was greatly impressed by all the nominees' extraordinary commitment to quality teaching and their success in advancing good teaching methods in their own disciplines and institutions, thereby nurturing thoughtful, self-reliant and globally competitive students for the benefit of society. At the Congregation, Professor Sung presented awards to Professor Poon and Dr. Wong to recognize their teaching excellence. 
Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2010
At the Congregation, Professor Sung also presented the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2010. The award has been given annually since 1999 by the Vice-Chancellor to exemplary teachers nominated by the Dean of each Faculty in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year eight awardees were presented this prestigious award: Prof. Ying Fuk-tsang, Faculty of Arts; Mr. Lai Hon-weng John, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Chung Yue-ping, Faculty of Education; Prof. Cheng Hong, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Xi Chao, Faculty of Law; Prof. Lee Wing-yan Vivian, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Cheung Siu-hung, Faculty of Science; and Prof. Ng Ka-ho Travis, Faculty of Social Science. A total of 88 outstanding educators have been given the award since 1999, seven of whom received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance.
Young Researcher Award 2010 and Postgraduate Research Output Award 2010
Young Researcher Award and Postgraduate Research Output Award were established in 2002 to recognize research accomplishments of young faculty members and to encourage quality research. The Young Researcher Award is open to all eligible full-time teachers who are appointed at Assistant Lecturer grade or above and below the age of 45; Postgraduate Research Output Award is open to all eligible full-time or part-time postgraduate students in the University. The Dean of each Faculty is invited every year to nominate one member who produced the best research output for each award. The Research Committee shall consider nominations received, and recommend successful candidates for approval by Administrative and Planning Committee. Recipients of Young Researcher Award 2010 are: Prof. Tan Nam-hoon Nancy, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Wang Cong, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Tse Chi-shing, Faculty of Education; Prof. So Man-cho Anthony, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Sarah Elisabeth Hilmer, Faculty of Law; Prof. Chor Sin-yee Josette, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Liu Renbao, Faculty of Science; and Prof. Huang Liqiang, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each receive a trophy, a certificate and an amount of HK$100,000 in the form of a research grant. 
Recipients of Postgraduate Research Output Award 2010 are: Mr. Liu Wei, Faculty of Arts; Dr. Li Weiwen, Faculty of Business Administration; Dr. Wang Lijuan Carrie, Faculty of Education; Dr. Liang Junrui, Faculty of Engineering; Mr. Meng Fanpeng, Faculty of Law; Mr. Meng Xiaoming, Faculty of Medicine; Dr. Qiu Zaozao, Faculty of Science; and Ms. Zhang Juan, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each receive a trophy, a certificate and a prize of HK$25,000 in cash. 
Master’s and Bachelor’s Degree Graduates in 2011 
A total of 4,658 Master’s degrees and 3,160 Bachelor’s degrees were conferred at the Congregation. Among the latter were 521 Bachelor of Arts, 619 Bachelor of Business Administration (including four graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree), 38 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 65 Bachelor of Education, 366 Bachelor of Engineering, 63 Bachelor of Laws, 123 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 149 Bachelor of Nursing, 26 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 25 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 648 Bachelor of Science (including eight graduates of the Bachelor of Science degree who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme), and 517 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;1=1&amp;id=44