[date]7 November 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK School of Architecture to Stage 'Building Culture' Exhibition and Symposium with Consulate General of Spain in Celebration of its 20th Anniversary 
Showcasing Avant-Garde Spanish Architecture and Bringing Inspiration to Cultural and Urban Development in Hong Kong 
[/title]
As part of its celebration programmes for the 20th anniversary, the School of Architecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) joins hands with the Consulate General of Spain and the International Conference of Architecture (ICOA) to present 'Building Culture', a multi-faceted event comprising the exhibition 'Architecture without Paper' (12-20 November), international symposium 'Hong Kong / Spain – Water &amp; Culture' (12 November) and student workshops on the topic of 'New Waterfront Communities'. The event offers a unique opportunity for Spanish and Hong Kong architects, designers, academics and planners to exchange their views and experiences in terms of sustainable urban design and cultural development, helping to develop strategies for Hong Kong's current waterfront developments including the West Kowloon Cultural District, the Kai Tak project and the future South Island Aberdeen areas. Members of the public are welcome to visit the exhibition for free while registration for the symposium can be made at: www.arch.cuhk.edu.hk/20ann/poster/20111017SpainHK_SYM.pdf. 
'Since its establishment 20 years ago, our School has been standing at the confluence of ideas and practices in built environment design in China and the world. Spain is privileged to have both a long tradition in architecture and design, and a young and dynamic generation of architects. We're very excited to be able to feature the best of innovative architecture designs from the new generation of Spanish architects in the exhibition, allowing our students and the wider professional public to be exposed to the creative approaches and best practices in the design of living environment in the world. With the dialogue between both Spanish designers and their counterparts from Hong Kong, the symposium provides a platform for advancement of knowledge in sustainability design, urban studies and design, and architectural conservation which are also the focus areas of research and teaching in our School,' said Prof. Ho Puay-peng, Director, School of Architecture, CUHK. 
Prof. Marisa Yiu, Assistant Professor, School of Architecture at CUHK, and co-convener of the symposium said, ' “Hong Kong / Spain – Water &amp; Culture” gathers key members and representatives of current waterfront developments in Hong Kong to showcase the latest projects, including the new cruise terminal at the former airport in Kai Tak and the West Kowloon Cultural District, among case studies and projects developed in cities in Spain such as Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia which have undergone major evolution based on infrastructural changes on their sea and waterfronts to become cultural capitals, and also Madrid which has moved towards rebuilding the centre of the city. Contemporary Spanish practices have not only used iconic architecture and design as instruments to reinvigorate culture, but they also have a sensitive concern for landscapes, waterfronts and “smallness” – an approach to urban regeneration for diverse communities, where planners have redesigned parts of the urban fabric such as Barcelona, with new pocket parks, schools, auditoriums, squares, museums and ramblas (broad avenues) to reclaimed beaches. The discussion will shed lights on strategies that could be employed to activate urban waterfronts and how architecture and building design will influence the community and culture in Hong Kong and Spain.’ 
Exhibition on 'Architecture Without Paper'
'Architecture Without Paper' is an audio visual exhibition curated by renowned Spanish architects Javier Maroto and Alvaro Soto. Presented at the recent Venice Biennale, the exhibition will show the innovation and quality of the work being carried out on the Spanish scene today by 15 young architecture studios. The projects to be showcased will demonstrate a sensitive approach to design excellence and how Spanish culture is situated in a fine balance between tradition and innovation. Design geometries, use of local materials, craft and detailing, innovative forms of building designs, different ways of public space treatment and housing typologies will be shown. Their projects put the spotlight on a fresh, avant-garde architecture that serves the sensibilities and needs of society. 
Symposium on 'Hong Kong / Spain – Water &amp; Culture'
The symposium will draw together 22 architects, professors, planners and academics from Spain and Hong Kong to present case studies of the current developments in their cities, and to share experiences on design strategies for diverse communities; how waterfronts and landscapes can be designed and developed for culture and sustainability; and the future development of designer cities. Participants and speakers include Hon. Ronald Arculli, Chairman of the Development Committee of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority; Stephen Tang, Head, Kai Tak Office of the Civil Engineering and Development Department, the HKSAR Government; Andrés Perea, Professor, Architecture School of Madrid, and Founding Member of the Sustainability and Architecture Association; Christopher Law, Founding Director of Oval Partnership; Manuel Gausa Navarro, Principal Partner of Gausa+Raveau; and Bernard V. Lim, Professor, School of Architecture, CUHK and Principal of Architecture Design and Research Group. Many of the conference speakers are not only professors but active practicing architects, linking the important synergy between the practice and pedagogy of architecture and urban design.
Student workshops on 'New Market and Waterfront Communities'
In conjunction with convening the symposium, Professor Yiu is leading a student workshop with Blanca Lleó, Founder of Blanca Lleó Asociados, Chair Professor and Vice Dean of International Relations, Architecture School of Madrid, for a group of master students. The students will present and carry out material explorations on their design of a new Market Commune structure in the Aberdeen promenade area – a building and public space that supports the local community, future inhabitants in the area and cultural tourists to the area. In the project, students have engaged with fish markets, analysed the Aberdeen waterfront and created their project as a response to the future development of the South Island Line (East) of MTR. 
Details of the exhibition and the symposium are as follows: 
Exhibition on 'Architecture Without Paper'

Date: 
12 November – 20 November, 2011
Time:
Mon-Fri    8:00am – 10:00pm
Sat:           8:00am – 6:30pm
(closed on Sundays &amp; public holidays)
Venue: 
Lecture Theatre, LT1, G/F Cheng Yu Tung Building
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Website: 
www.arch.cuhk.edu.hk/20ann/poster/20111017SpainHK_EXH.pdf

Symposium on ‘Hong Kong / Spain – Water &amp; Culture’

Date: 
12 November 2011
Time:
8:30am                     Symposium Registration
9:00am – 6:00pm   Symposium
6:15pm – 7:30pm   Opening Ceremony and Reception of  Exhibition
Venue:
Lecture Theatre, LT1, G/F Cheng Yu Tung Building
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Registration:  
Please complete and return the registration form by 9 November  2011, by email: arch20@cuhk.edu.hk or fax: 2603-5267
The form can be downloaded at: www.arch.cuhk.edu.hk/20ann/poster/20111017SpainHK_SYM.pdf
Enquiries: 
Ms. Kam Ka Man (Tel: 3943-6557 / Email: ah_kam@cuhk.edu.hk)

                                                                                    
