[date]28 October 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK S.H. Ho College Opens
Creating a Home Away from Home for 600 Students[/title]
With the completion of its new campus, S.H. Ho College at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a ceremony to mark its opening today (28 October). Being the first college which was officially opened among the five new colleges of CUHK, the opening ceremony was officiated by Dr. Vincent Cheng, Chairman of the University Council; Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of the University; Dr. Tzu-leung Ho, Chairman of the Committee of Overseers, S.H. Ho College, and Governor of The S.H. Ho Foundation; and Prof. Samuel Sun, Master of S.H. Ho College. Plaque-unveiling ceremonies for the four main buildings of the College, namely, Ho Sin Hang Hall, Ho Tim Hall, Lee Quo Wei Hall and Chan Chun Ha Hall, were also held. Ho Tim Hall and Lee Quo Wei Hall are student hostels; Chan Chun Ha Hall is an administrative and student amenities building; and Ho Sin Hang Hall is a multi-purpose hall. In the evening, Dr. Tung Chee-hwa, former Chief Executive of HKSAR, together with nearly 600 students and staff members of the University, benefactors, representatives of partner universities and guests attended the High Table Dinner in celebration of the historic moment of the College. 
At the opening ceremony, Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, said, 'Starting from 2012, universities in Hong Kong will switch to a four-year curriculum, indicating that we will admit 30% more undergraduate students in the coming year. In face of the challenge, the University, with the collegiate system as its cornerstone, has established five new colleges. I am particularly impressed by S.H. Ho College's commitment in creating a homelike environment for both local and overseas students. Many current social problems are in a certain way related to the diminishing function of families. I wish students will feel like home at S.H. Ho College so that they can grow and learn in a congenial and supportive environment.' 
The opening ceremony was also officiated by representatives of three exchange partners of S.H. Ho College, including Prof. Matthew Gutmann, Vice-President for International Affairs, Brown University; Lord Wilson of Dinton, Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge University; and Prof. Xu Chongren, Dean of Yuanpei College, Peking University. This year, the College has sent a number of students to these three partner universities. Professor Sung said, 'I'm delighted to see the partnership between S.H. Ho College and Brown University, Emmanuel College of Cambridge University and Yuanpei College of Peking University, which are the most prestigious institutions in America, Europe and Asia respectively and represent the most successful practices of college education in the world. I believe the collaborations will further promote the vision of college education.' 
Various benefactors and their representatives also delivered speeches at the ceremony, including Dr. Tzu-leung Ho; Dr. David Ho, Chairman of The S.H. Ho Foundation; Mr. Normal Ho, Trustee of Ho Tim Foundation; Mr. Thomas Liang, Chief Executive Officer of Wei Lun Foundation; and Mr. Lin Chung-pak, Trustee of Chan Chun Ha Charitable Trust. Dr. Lee Quo-wei, former Chairman of the University Council and Wei Lun Foundation, unveiled the plaque of Lee Quo Wei Hall together with Mrs. Lee Quo Wei. Dr. David Ho said, 'The Foundation will work closely with the College to nurture students who will excel in their professional field and also make contributions to society. My beloved father Dr. Ho Sin-hang worked closely with Dr. Ho Tim, Dr. Lee Quo-wei and Mr. Chan Chun-ha to develop their banking business with resounding success. Today, we are delighted to witness the opening of the buildings named in honour of them at the College named after my late father, perpetuating their partnership and benevolence.' 
At the ceremony, the officiating guests each contributed a memento which is meaningful to the College, to be sealed in a time capsule and buried under the College sculpture at its lawn. The mementoes include the book On My Life Experience authored by Dr. Ho Sin-hang, the constitution of the College, a photograph of the first meeting of the Overseers, a roll of the first batch of students, the campaign poster of the first student union, a photograph of Professor Sung with students taken at their social service trip to Uganda, and souvenirs from various exchange partners. 
S.H. Ho Collegeis a 'home' for students, offering a diversified, inspiring and interactive environment for students to exchange knowledge and ideas. After the ceremony, representatives of the benefactors planted four osmanthus fragrans (sweet olive trees) on the lawn, wishing all students will grow as sound and strong as the trees in the congenial community. 
About S.H. Ho College 
To enhance its collegiate system and students' holistic development, CUHK has established five new colleges to offer more choices for students. S.H. Ho College was established in 2006 with the generous donations of The S.H. Ho Foundation. It admitted its first cohort of students in 2010, and will accommodate a full complement of 600 students in 2012. Through full residence and whole person education programmes, the College aims to help students advance in the four virtues of the College motto — culture, morals, devotion and trustworthiness. The five golden lines on a blue ground that dominate the College's emblem derive from the Chinese character 'jia' (家), meaning 'home'. 
As a home away from home for its members, the College offers full residential and communal dining. The Master and all members of the College will gather and share their thoughts at the thrice-weekly dinners and various activities. A high table dinner is also held once a month where students will attend in their College gowns and interact with notables from all walks of life. 
The College has established exchange programmes with prestigious universities around the world. Graduates may enroll for graduate programmes at Hughes Hall, Cambridge University with full scholarships. The College students have also been very active in social services both locally and overseas, including building a dormitory for orphans suffering AIDS, constructing a bridge on Yunnan border, taking part in 'Stand Tall' rehabilitation programmes for earthquake victims in Sichuan and paying regular visits to local elderly homes.