[date]16 September 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Faculty of Engineering to Stage Innovation and Technology Fair 
to Showcase 20 Years of Excellence and Achievements
[/title]
In celebration of its 20th anniversary, the Faculty of Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) showcases in the 3-day Innovation and Technology Fair a wide spectrum of new innovative research projects in engineering and information technology conducted by its faculty members and students from today (16 Septermber) to 18 September on campus.  Project highlights include applications of biomedical engineering, cloud computing, robotics and automation, multimedia, wireless and mobile technologies. 
The Innovation and Technology Fair is one of the highlights of the Faculty's 20th anniversary celebration. The Opening Ceremony was officiated by Professor Wu Hequan, Former Vice-President, Chinese Academy of Engineering; Professor Sir Charles Kao, former Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Dr. Leung Siu Hong Raymond, Chairman, Advisory Board of the Faculty of Engineering, CUHK; Professor Ching Pak Chung, Acting Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Professor Wong Ching Ping, Dean of Engineering, CUHK and Professor Wong Kam Fai, Chairman of the Organising Committee of the Faculty 20th Anniversary Celebration in the morning. Over two hundred staff, students, alumni and friends participated at the Opening Ceremony to celebrate this joyful anniversary event.  
Professor Wong Ching Ping said, 'I take pride in being the Dean of Engineering in seeing the Faculty's latest research outcomes.  Over the past two decades, the Faculty has made great strides towards enhancing our research capability, nurturing talents, fostering innovation and development among teachers and students in hope of solving social human problems with engineering research results, and meeting the new century grand engineering challenges with the best solutions to better serve the community.' 
At the Opening Ceremony, Professor Wu Hequan delivered a keynote speech on the development of network technologies. 'Internet is one of the most influential innovations in the economic and social aspects in the twentieth century, and internet technology is at a turning point to change and evolve,' he said. He also shared his view that tri-network convergenceis is an inevitable trend in information and communication technology, and the integration of telecommunications network, cable television network and the internet will promote the evolution of telecommunication and broadcast management. He pointed out the challenges like the problem of limited resources for internet business development while emphasizing on grasping the opportunities of evolving network technologies to meet the challenges ahead. 
Nearly 40 project exhibits are displayed to broaden public understanding of the Faculty's effort in promoting innovation and engineering education. Some new inventions include: System for Nasal Surgery that helps surgeons carry out surgical procedures in a nasal cavity, Vascular Intervention Simulation System that facilitates training of common vascular intervention procedures as well as Intelligent Video Surveillance.  Apart from many innovative technological projects, winning entries of the 'Apps Design Competition' by university and secondary students are also displayed, fully demonstrating the creativity of the 90s generation.  With its strong foundation of excellence, the Faculty will continue to pursue cutting-edge research and nurture talents for building a better future. 
CUHK Faculty of Engineering 20th Anniversary Innovation and Technology Fair
Public is welcome. Free entry. Details of the exhibition are as below: 

Exhibition Period:
16.9.2011 – 18.9.2011
Opening Hours: 
10 am to 5 pm
Exhibition Venue:
Room 603, Ho Sin Hang Engineering Building, Main Campus, CUHK
Transport: 
Shuttle bus will run between the University Station and Ho Sin Hang Engineering Building
Enquiries:
3943 1109
Website:
www.erg.cuhk.edu.hk/20th_Anniversary

                               
