[date]1 November 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Spearheading Internet Development in Hong Kong for Two Decades
Features 'Eagle Eye' Project at InnoCarnival 2011
[/title]
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Internet connection in Hong Kong.  The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present the leading role it has played in facilitating Internet connection in Hong Kong over the years, and showcase 17 research achievements in the InnoCarnival 2011 organized by the Innovation and Technology Commission of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government from 5 to 13 November at the Hong Kong Science Park. For the first time, CUHK collaborates with the host of InnoCarnival 2011 to enhance youngsters' interest in science, engineering and mathematics through a series of workshops and laboratory visits.  Professor Sir Charles Kao, fibre optics, green technology, and biomedical engineering will be featured. 
Driving the rapid Internet evolution of Hong Kong
Local development of fibre optics and Internet connection has a long-standing association with CUHK. Former Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Charles Kao, commonly known as the 'Father of Fibre Optics' created something that has advanced information and Internet connectivity and benefited mankind in a tremendous way. Under Professor Kao's leadership, CUHK took the lead in establishing a satellite link from CUHK to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to pave way for the speedy Internet connection between Hong Kong and the global network. Hong Kong has become a place with one of the world's most extensive broadband coverage today.
In 1995, the establishment of the Hong Kong Internet Exchange (HKIX) by CUHK has given Internet services providers greater ease and speed in local Internet communications, without having to go through overseas facilities such as those in the US. More small-scaled Internet services providers are attracted to enter the industry, allowing the general public in Hong Kong to enjoy competitive Internet services at low cost. Over the past 10+ years, HKIX has acted as the Internet hub of the Asia Pacific region on which various large Internet services and content providers rely for exchange and sharing of information. 
In retrospect, Internet connection was originally introduced for academic purposes and later adopted as an electronic mail communication tool for transfer of text messages. Nowadays, Internet has become an integral part of Hong Kong people's life and even mobile phones carry the function of Internet browsing. According to a survey conducted in 2010, Hong Kong people on average spent 145 minutes daily on surfing the net, 5 minutes more than that on television programmes, the first time internet consumption was shown to be higher than television watching. It was also found that the number of Internet users aged between 50 and 64 had increased from 15% in 2006 to 31% in 2010. This was evidence that Hong Kong has indeed begun its digital age. 
HKIX will continue to commit itself to the promotion of Internet development and technologies in Hong Kong in the face of the rapid global changes such as IPv6, Internet of things and cloud computing. As a non-profit making organization, HKIX is much in need of resources and support from government and industry for the upgrading of facilities and services, all for the future Internet development in Hong Kong. 
'Eagle Eye' supports outdoor learning
As an Internet pioneer in Hong Kong, CUHK does not only contribute to network infrastructure but also emphasize on improving Internet applications. CUHK has recently received a funding of around HK$100 million from The University Grants Committee (UGC) to support its initial invention 'Network Coding', a new generation of Internet technology. In addition, different research teams in CUHK cooperate closely with industries to develop Internet application technologies like RFID, simulation training of surgery, smart ward, etc. Prof. Morris JONG Siu Yung, Assistant Professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, Faculty of Education, and Associate Director of the Centre for the Advancement of Information Technology in Education, CUHK, has also developed an Internet-based learning system named 'Eagle Eye'.   
Eagle Eye is an ultimate solution for outdoor exploratory learning for subjects like geography, biology, culture, and sustainable development. Students can access learning materials from teachers in an on-demand fashion and through a software platform which consists of a front-end on a GPS-enabled notebook computer, tablet computer or smart phone. Student-centered exploration of an outdoor environment can be achieved by using location-based guidance. On the other hand, the back-end PC-based console enables teachers to pre-load and tag map images, and attach tailor-made learning materials such as multimedia artwork, guiding notes and learning task deployment. The console also enables teachers to monitor the exploration tracks of individual student groups and collect student submissions after learning activities. 
This system can enrich the content of mobile learning, enhance the quality and efficiency of mobile learning, stimulate students' motivation, encourage self-learning, and strengthen their ability to digest and memorize the content. 
About InnoCarnival 2011
Members of the public are welcome to the InnoCarnival 2011 and to learn about CUHK's contribution in Internet connection over the past 20 years, Eagle Eye, and 16 other innovative research projects. Interactive games are also available. Members of the public are also invited to join the 'iTour' to be held on the same dates. 

Date: 
5 to 13 November 2011
Time:
10:00 am to 7:00 pm
Venue:
G/F., Lakeside II, Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks, Sha Tin

Website of InnoCarnival 2011： http://www.itm.gov.hk/
Website of HKIX： http://www.hkix.net/
Website of Eagle Eye： http://caite.fed.cuhk.edu.hk/ee/
Website of iTour： http://www.cintec.cuhk.edu.hk/itour
