[date]5 October 2011[/date]
[title]Global Internship Preps for Graduate Success in Internationalized Job Market[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a certificate presentation ceremony recently to award a total of 288 students for their completion of internship offered by the Global Internship Programme (GIP).  The programme, organized by the Office of Student Affairs, has been developed to provide students with a diversity of internship and cultural exchange opportunities since 1997.
Global Mindset for an Integrated World
As internationalization becomes a trend around the world, the job market requires graduates to have high geographical mobility and flexibility to work with people with different socioeconomic values. Offshore internship opportunities offered by GIP equip students with a global vision and raise their adaptability towards the integrated cross-cultural work environment.  The programme strategically enhances students’ competitiveness in the job market. Prof. Benjamin W. Wah, Provost of the University, mentioned in the welcome speech in the ceremony that concerted effort has been made with an aim to providing every undergraduate student with an internship opportunity during his/her studies with the University.
Experiential Learning Instills Personal Growth
The University has placed strong emphasis on all-round development of students and has been dedicated to grooming their intellectual curiosity so as to facilitate their academic pursuit and personal growth.
Dr. Paul Kan, Chairman of the Career Development Board of the University, remarked that offshore internships provide unparalleled experiential learning opportunities that broaden students’ horizons, polish soft-skills such as cultural sensitivity and promote a healthy outlook on life. From the employers’ perspective, such attributes are considered as crucial assets of a potential employee to develop a bright future with the company.
The programme offered 288 internships this year, with a slight increase of 3% over that in last year, under the generous sponsorships of Mr. Cheung Kung-hay, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, CUHK Caring Alumni Fund, Mrs. Lai Chan Pui-ngong, Dr. and Mrs. Yeung Ming-biu and Mr. David York. Among them, 221 students interned in 17 mainland cities while 67 students received their internship training in 14 major overseas cities.  
Internship opportunities offered by GIP cover a wide spectrum of sectors to cater for students’ diverse interests from scientific research and technology, cultural industry to non-commercial organizations. GIP interns agree that they understand more about real work environment and affirm the positive impact of the experience in their career planning.  Summer internships not only enable students to establish long-lasting friendship with their co-workers and friends met during their internships, but also inspire them in their search for value of life.
Gloria Leung, a Fine Arts student, found her internship in London with the Hong Kong Economics and Trade Office extremely fruitful. She had the chance to capitalize the knowledge learnt. ‘I was assigned to build up a database for the arts festivals in some monitored European countries and prepared arts market reports. I even got the chances to attend meetings with members of the British Museum, providing a golden opportunity to interact with people with ample experience in art appreciation.’
Cherry Cha, a year 3 student of the Integrated Business Administration Programme, embarked on her eye-opening journey to Xinjiang in June and interned at the Bank of East Asia Urumqi Branch. During the internship, she not only acquired hands-on work experience related to her study, but was also inspired in an outing with the internship company. ‘The most memorable part was the staff’s trip to Jiangbulake Grasslands. For the first time in my life, I saw so many sparkling stars in the sky. I was amazed by mother nature and its compelling eternal power.'
The ceremony received warm responses from many partner organizations. Representatives from the Liaison Office of The Central People’s Government in the HKSAR, partner universities and a number of internship organizations joined the ceremony to show their support.
