[date]10 October 2011[/date]
[title]ISEIS Young Scholar Wins AARS Best Paper Award of 2011[/title]
Dr. Chen Fulong, research associate of the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science (ISEIS) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), recently won ShunjiMurai Award– the Best Paper Award of the annual conference of Asian Association on Remote Sensing (AARS) with his research paper 'Surface Deformation Monitoring Along Qinghai-Tibet Railway Using Small Baseline SAR Interferometry, A Case Study of Beiluhe Section, Qinghai, China', co-authored by Prof. Lin Hui of ISEIS. Funded by the Research Grants Council of the HKSAR Government, Dr. Chen's paper presents a new method for monitoring the stability of the roadbed in the frozen ground zone of the depopulated region, which could be a valuable reference for further studies on the monitoring of deformation of large scale man-made linear features such as high-speed railway and highway networks. 
Named after the former president of International Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, the award is given annually to young authors under the age of 40 whose papers are ranked at the top of all submissions. The winner was recommended to AARS Council by an international review committee formed by international well-known scholars from ETH of Switzerland, Melbourne University, and University of Tokyo. 
Radar satellite remote sensing has been one of the foci of ISEIS, including InSAR methods for monitoring ground deformation of earthquake zone, urban ground subsidence, and stability of transportation facilities. In the past decade, ISEIS has received several related awards from international conferences, and outstanding ISEIS researchers in this field have been selected by the Chinese Academy of Sciences and State/Ministry Key Laboratories of mainland universities. 
AARS is an international academic organization consisting of ordinary members from national remote sensing organizations of 28 Asian countries, including those from the 'world space club' countries such as China, Japan and India. With the rapid development of space remote sensing in Asia in the past decade, AARS has also attracted associate members from national agencies and organizations from USA, Canada, Germany, UK, France, Switzerland, The Netherlands, and European Space Agency.
