[date]2 October 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Launches CUHK Mobile App
University Information at Fingertips[/title]
With the rapid advancement in communication technology and the immense popularity of smart phones, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) launches the app ‘CUHK Mobile’ to make its information and latest news more readily available to those who require such data.
Interactive campus map with GPS
The beautiful 137-hectare campus of CUHK is the largest in the territory and attracts a large number of visitors. CUHK Mobile offers an interactive campus map in the Global Positioning System format for visitors and new students who are not familiar with the parts of campus that they want to travel to. By simply viewing or inputting the name of the destination, the exact location will quickly appear. An image of the destination will also be shown upon a single click, allowing users to easily identify the objects of their search. The shuttle bus timetable is another useful function which shows the positions of the stops, and the time for the next service, greatly facilitating transport on campus. 
Comprehensive information and latest news
CUHK Mobile allows everybody to check out the latest news and announcements, campus events and feature stories. One may also search the telephone numbers of various teaching and administrative units through the telephone directory and get connected with just one click. The campus photo gallery and videos, as well as CUHK on iTunes U which shares academic resources, are also available for users to keep abreast of the University’s happenings. One may even login to the University Library System for searching resources and checking his or her borrowing record.
'Orientation Day for Undergraduate Admissions' Guide
The Orientation Day for Undergraduate Admissions will be held on 8 – 9 October. An 'O’Day’ page has been created on CUHK Mobile to provide information on the programmes for the two days, as well as the relevant location maps and transportation details.  This will allow secondary school students and their parents who are not familiar with the CUHK campus to gain access to their desired destinations with ease. By pointing to a specific building on the map, the schedule of various activities to be held at that venue will be shown to give visitors a comprehensive view of what will happen during those two days.
CUHK Mobile is now available on AppStore for free in both traditional Chinese and English versions, and is applicable to iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad.
