[date]11 October 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK United College Distinguished Visiting Scholar Prof. Herman Cheung to Speak on Advances and Challenges of Stem Cell-based Regenerative Medicine
Public Lecture Open for Registration
[/title]
Prof. Herman S. Cheung of the University of Miami will visit United College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) between 15 and 24 October as Distinguished Visiting Scholar in 2011-12 and deliver two public lectures on campus. The lectures will be conducted in English. Members of the public are welcome to join and call 3943-7455 for reservation. 
Professor Cheung is an internationally renowned researcher and scholar in life sciences. He was bestowed the James L Knight Professorship in 2001 and appointed Senior Veteran Affairs Research Career Scientist in 2003. He holds 3 professorships at the University of Miami – Professor of Medicine since 1996, Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation since 1997, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering since 2003. Professor Cheung has been dedicated to his research work in biomedical engineering over the past 40 years and is renowned in his research achievements in stem cells and regenerative medicine. His research also extends to applications in vascular biology of cardiovascular diseases, cell-based therapy, orthopaedic complications, diabetes and autoimmunity. Professor Cheung has attracted numerous research grants, leading research programmes with well over US$30 million grants and holding a number of profitable patents. 
Professor Cheung has been serving as editor of the E-Book Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine since 2010 and guest editor of the Current Rheumatology Review Special Issue Stem Cells, Cartilage Repair and Osteoarthritis. He is a member of NIH study sections, VA Merit Review Boards, various foundations, as well as the Cell Biology Study Section of the Arthritis Foundation. He also serves as reviewer for the Research Competitiveness Programme (RCP) at the American Association for the Advancement of Science and Technology Foundation STW, and Dutch Organization for Scientific Research, The Netherlands. 
It is a challenge for many scientists nowadays to successfully commercialize one's research outcome. Professor Cheung is the site director of National Science Foundation Industry/University Center for Biosurfaces and co-director of the Cellular Therapy and Tissue Engineering Initiative at University of Miami. For more than 25 years, Professor Cheung has been a consultant and a science board member of several biotechnological companies and holds a number of licensing agreements. To Professor Cheung, the best part of his job is 'not cutting-edge research', but 'seeing young people succeed'. His mentorship covers scores of students specialized in different professional fields as team leaders, award winners and professors.
Details of the two public lectures are as follows:  

1.
Advances and challenges of stem cell-based regenerative medicine

 
Date and time: Tuesday, 18 October 2011, 4:30pm – 6:00pm
Venue: Lecture Theatre 1, Cheng Yu Tung Building, CUHK (adjacent to the University MTR Station)

 
 

2.
Can entrepreneurship co-exist with academia research?

 
Date and time: Thursday, 20 October 2011, 4:30pm – 6:00pm
Venue: Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, CUHK

Enquiries: Mr. George Lam at 3943 7598 or Ms Amy Yeung at 3943 7455 of the Dean of Students' Office, United College, CUHK.
