[date]28 November 2011[/date]
[title]SHKP and CUHK Present Distinguished Lecture 
by Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences
Free Tickets Available
[/title]
Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present the 19th installment of the widely acclaimed Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures on 5 December (Monday), featuring Prof. Peter A. Diamond, 2010 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences on 'Steps to Limit Future Global Economic Crises'. During the lecture, Professor Diamond will share his scholarship with CUHK staff, students, alumni and members of the political, commercial and education sectors.
Prof. Peter A. Diamond will review factors that contributed to the global economic crisis and discuss some steps for addressing them as well as issues needing more research. Professor Diamond is an Institute Professor Emeritus at MIT where he taught from 1966 to 2011. He has written on public finance, social insurance, behavioral economics, uncertainty and search theories, and macroeconomics. His books include Saving Social Security: A Balanced Approach (with Peter R. Orszag), Reforming Pensions: Principles and Policy Choices and Pension Reform: A Short Guide (both with Nicholas Barr), and Behavioral Economics and Its Applications (edited with Hannu Vartiainen). 
His recent papers include The Mirrlees Review chapter 'The Tax Base' (with James Banks), 'Capital Income Taxes with Heterogeneous Discount Rates' (with Johannes Spinnewijn, American Economic Journal: Economic Policy), 'The Case for a Progressive Tax: From Basic Research to Policy Recommendations' (with Emmanuel Saez, The Journal of Economic Perspectives) and 'Unemployment, Vacancies, Wages' (the Nobel Lecture in the American Economic Review). His recent report is Pension Reform in China: Issues, Options and Recommendations (with Nicholas Barr). He has been President of the American Economic Association, of the Econometric Society, and of the National Academy of Social Insurance. He was one of the three winners of the 2010 Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. 
The lecture will be shown live at local universities to reach a broader audience. A hyperlink to the webcast will also be provided by Hong Kong Education City for online viewing by secondary school teachers and students. There will also be a live feed to the Fudan, Shanghai Jiao Tong, Zhejiang, Nanjing and Sun Yat-sen Universities on the mainland. 
Free tickets will be available to give Hong Kong people a chance to benefit from the distinguished scholar's insight. Details are as follows: 
Lecture:

Date:
5 December 2011 (Monday)
Time:
5:00 pm
Place:  
Lecture Theatre 6, 1/F, Lee Shau Kee Building, CUHK
Language:
English

Ticket collection:
Tickets are now available at the following outlets:

Outlets 
Opening Hours

Tsimshatsui Oriental Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 13/F, Oriental Centre, 67 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 21:00
Saturday: 9:00 – 18:00

Central Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 1/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 20:00
Saturday: 9:00 - 17:00

Mongkok Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 4/F, 90A Shantung Street, Mongkok, Kowloon
Monday to Friday: 9:00 – 20:00
Saturday: 9:00 – 17:00

Tickets will be available while they last – one per person.  Public can also apply for online tickets at www.cuhk.edu.hk/nobellectures. Enquiries: 3943-8893 
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures were inaugurated in 2004 with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The series brings Nobel Laureates to speak to a broad cross-section of the community, to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, encouraging life-long learning and innovation. After this 19th installment of the series, 26 Nobel Laureates or renowned scholars will have lectured in Hong Kong.
