[date]12 November 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Green Pioneer Series
Film Show and Public Forum 'In Search of Harmony with Nature: Global Vision and Local Action'
Now Open for Public Registration
[/title]
The Earth is our home. It is the basis of all economies and life-support systems.  Seen from space, the Earth looks like a fragile blue planet threatened by over-production and over-consumption of goods and services.  But it is this fragile planet that sustains us.  If we get our values right and truly value ecological functions over goods and services, the vitality and fertility of the Earth can be restored.  
The Centre for Environmental Policy and Resource Management (CEPRM) and the CU Tree Project of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will jointly organize a Film Show and Public Forum entitled 'In Search of Harmony with Nature: Global Vision and Local Action'. In this Forum, Director John Liu of the Environmental Education Media Project (EEMP) will present a documentary 'What if we change?' and share his view on ecological restoration in China and other parts of the world.  Dr. S.T. Tsim and Mr. George Jor will share their first-hand experience of ecological conservation and green education in Hong Kong.  Finally, there will be a Q &amp; A session and members of the audience are welcome to join the discussion on issues related to ecological conservation. Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor, will join the event to show his support. 
Public is welcome.  For online registration, please visit http://www.grm.cuhk.edu.hk/eng/news/confnews/filmshow.html
Details are as follows：

Date：
23 November 2011 (Wednesday)

Time：
6:15pm-8:30pm

Venue：
Lecture Theatre 1, Esther Lee Building, CUHK

Language：
Film show and speech (English); Q &amp; A (English / Cantonese)

Opening Remarks:
Prof. Tung Fung, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK

Speakers:
 
Director John Liu, EEMP (Keynote speaker)
Dr. Siu Tai Tsim, Consultant, Estates Management Office, CUHK
Mr. George C.K. Jor, Holder, CU Tree Project

Panel Discussants:
 
Prof. David Y.Q. Chen,  Head, Geography &amp; Resource Management, CUHK
Prof. Sai Leung Ng, Director, CEPRM, CUHK
Prof. Lee Man Chu, Chairman, Committee on Campus Environment, CUHK
Mr. Benny P.S. Tam, Director, Estates Management Office, CUHK

Enquiry：
Mr. Vincent Wong, Project Coordinator, CEPRM, CUHK
(Tel: 3943-6643／Email:waifung28@cuhk.edu.hk)

CUHK Green Pioneer Series
CUHK is privileged to have a green campus that is among the most beautiful in Asia.  For two years in a row, the University has been recognized at the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence, reaping the gold award last year under the category of Public Organizations and Utilities among a total of 400-plus entries, and granted the class of excellence 'Energywi$e' label, setting a model of sustainability in the academic sector.  
CUHK will build on its outstanding achievements in carbon reduction, water saving, paper saving, ecosystem conservation, and environmental education.  It will launch more innovative projects and share its latest green works through the Green Pioneer Series, bringing its experiences off-campus and share them with the public to promote green living.
