[date]7 December 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK School of Architecture Holds First-ever Croucher Advanced Study Institute on Urban Climatology for Tropical and Sub-tropical Regions[/title]
The School of Architecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is holding a six-day 'Croucher Advanced Study Institute (ASI)' this week on campus to look into urban climatology for tropical and sub-tropical regions. The opening ceremony was held recently, officiated by Mr. Jimmy Leung, Director of Planning of HKSAR Government, Mrs. Hilda Lam, Assistant Director of Hong Kong Observatory, Dr. Rupa Kumar Kolli, the representative of World Meteorological Organization (WMO), and Prof. Henry Wong, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK. About 20 world’s leading distinguished experts and professors in the field of urban climatology shared their latest research findings, attracting over 150 local and overseas participants, including urban planners, architects, academics, researchers and government officials.
Given the interdisciplinary nature of the urban climate issue and with an aim of bridging scientific research and application for planning practice, three inter-connected ASIs were held to address the topic from a multi-dimensional perspective. The themes are: urban climate for human comfort, urban climate and air pollution, as well as climate change and urban design. Participants were able to exchange ideas with world-class experts on urban climatology, and selected participants also had the chance to present their research results through oral or poster presentations. Visits to the Hong Kong Observatory and Hong Kong Planning and Infrastructure Exhibition Gallery were also arranged. 
The Croucher Advanced Study Institute is fully sponsored by The Croucher Foundation which aims at promoting the dissemination of knowledge and international academic exchanges through short courses.This first-ever themed programme on urban climatology for tropical and sub-tropical regions isorganized by a team led by Prof. Edward Ng Yan Yung of the CUHK School of Architecture, with the support of influential international and local organizations including the WMO, United Nations Environmental Programme and Hong Kong Green Building Council.
