[date]12 December 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Awards Honorary Doctorates to Four Distinguished Persons[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will confer honorary doctorates on the following four distinguished persons at its 70th Congregation to be held on Thursday, 15 December, in recognition of their outstanding contributions in their respective areas of achievement to academic, cultural and scientific progress, socio-economic advancement, the promotion of community welfare, and the development of CUHK.
Dr. Ju Ming is an internationally-renowned sculptor whose works are seen in many places around the world including the mainland, Southeast Asia, Europe and the US. His works have been exhibited and recognized throughout the art world.  His Taichi Series and Living World Series, including the pair of Taichi Series work called 'Harmony’ created for the Bank of China in Hong Kong, are particularly well known.  Embracing oriental spirits, his works combine tradition and modernity, showing his continuous pursuit of innovation.  Dr. Ju actively collaborates with schools to promote art education among children, and he has also devoted much effort to the preservation of precious art subjects.  His famous sculpture, the ‘Gate of Wisdom’, installed on the CUHK campus over 20 years ago, is of great significance to the University and has become a campus landmark.  The University will confer upon Dr. Ju the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa, in recognition of his distinguished achievements in art and the preservation of cultural heritage.
 
Dr. Ho Tzu-leung is an eminent urologist and a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons.  He has been for many years a medical practitioner in the United States, Hong Kong and Singapore.  Dr. Ho and his family have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to the development of tertiary education and medical services worldwide through generous donations to universities in Hong Kong, mainland China, the UK and the US.  The S.H. Ho Foundation managed by Dr. Ho has been generously supporting the academic and research development of CUHK, including the building of teaching and research facilities as well as student hostels, sponsoring scientific research, and establishing the superbly-equipped S.H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke Centre and the S.H. Ho Centre for Geriatrics and Gerontology.  The Foundation also made possible the establishment of the S.H. Ho College to provide whole-person education for students.  Dr. Ho is also a current member of the University Council and has been actively contributing to the University’s development.  The University will confer upon Dr. Ho the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his remarkable contributions in the education and medical sectors.
 
Mr. Lee Woo-sing, an eminent entrepreneur, and a leader in finance and the community at large, is currently Chairman of the Board of Grand Finance Group Co. Ltd., Permanent Honorary President of the Shanghai Fraternity Association, and a Member of China National Committee of Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Forum. He has made distinguished contributions to the economic development and community services in Hong Kong and mainland China.  Currently a member of the Board of Trustees of Shaw College and a member of the Council of CUHK, Mr. Lee has rendered great support to the University by contributing to the establishment of the Shanghai Fraternity Association Research Services Centre, the Lee Woo Sing Hong Kong History Resource Centre, the ‘Home in Hong Kong’ project and the Mainland Undergraduate Association of the University.  In 2007, Dr. Li Wo-hing, Mr. Lee’s brother, made a magnanimous donation to CUHK to establish the Lee Woo Sing College, in recognition of Mr. Lee’s contributions to local education and philanthropy.  The University will confer upon Mr. Lee the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, for his exceptional contributions to the community and CUHK.
 
Prof. Richard Yu Yue-hong is a distinguished nephrologist and  philanthropist.  He is currently a Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine and the three Royal Colleges of Physicians in UK and Australia, and an Honorary Consultant Physician at the Ruttonjee Hospital and Princess Margaret Hospital.  He was the pioneer who introduced and established the specialty in Nephrology to Hong Kong, and the founder of the Hong Kong Society of Nephrology.  As the Chairman of the Higher Physician Training Committee, Professor Yu is devoted to raising the standard of medical education, hospital services and the medical sector in general.  He has long been associated with CUHK and has been a staunch supporter in the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine.  He is currently Honorary Professor of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics of CUHK, and has made generous and substantial donations to the Faculty for the setting up of a number of scholarships, supporting its medical research and improving its facilities.  In recognition of his lifelong contributions to medicine and the development of CUHK, the University will confer upon Professor Yu the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa.