[date]6 December 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Launches New 2-Year Undergraduate Programmes for Associate Degree/Higher Diploma Holders[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will launch three two-year full-time UGC-funded undergraduate programmes which are specially designed for associate degree/higher diploma holders in the 2012/13 academic year. These include the Bachelor of Science Programme in Gerontology, the Bachelor of Science Programme in Exercise Science and Health Education, and the Bachelor of Social Science Programme in Global Studies. 
B.Sc. Programme in Gerontology
Prof. Diana T.F. Lee, Director of The Nethersole School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, related that the new undergraduate programme in Gerontology, the first-of-its-kind in Hong Kong, is designed in response to the expanding aging population and the associated manpower shortage in health and social elderly care services in Hong Kong. It will equip graduates with a full scope of knowledge and skills in planning, delivering and coordinating elderly care services in a wide variety of health and social elderly care settings. Practicum in community care, rehabilitative care and residential care will also be provided to enable students to transfer theoretical knowledge of gerontology into practice. 
Graduates will be well-positioned to seek employment with organizations that provide different levels of elderly care services, including elderly community centres, day care centres, home-based services, respite services, geriatric rehabilitation centres and residential care homes. They will be equipped with professional knowledge in programme planning, project coordination and implementation as well as elderly service reengineering, administration and evaluation. Graduates will also be prepared to work across different health and social care service providers. 
B.Sc. Programme in Exercise Science and Health Education
The new programme in Exercise Science and Health Education is specially designed for students who aspire to pursue a career in exercise, sport and allied health sciences. Prof. Amy S.C. Ha, Chairperson, Department of Sports Science and Physical Education, Faculty of Education, said, 'The programme is characterized by two closely linked areas: exercise science and health education. The exercise science component explores the complex nature of human movement and examines the manner by which the body reacts to acute and chronic physical activity pursuits, such as general fitness regimes, lifestyle physical activities and elite sport; the health education component examines the efficacy of a variety of prescribed physical activities, as well as theories and strategies for health promotion.' 
The programme aims to train professionals in exercise science and health education to assist individuals and communities to have a better understanding of health issues, thereby preventing and changing unhealthy lifestyle and behaviours linked to chronic disease, disability and poor quality of life. The programme will provide internship opportunities in community centres, subvented national sports associations or club houses to prepare students for professional practice. Graduates can develop their career as administrators in subvented national sports associations; physical training officers, inspectors or officers in disciplinary forces; or executives in fitness and leisure industries. 
B.S.Sc in Global Studies
Prof. Sunny K.S. Kwong, Associate Dean (Education), Faculty of Social Science, remarked that the Global Studies programme is designed to meet the growing demand in society for professionals with global vision and knowledge of global issues - including global politics, world economies, environmental issues, human rights, poverty and international law. Course contents will be highly relevant to the global trend of the 21st century. 
The programme will provide internship opportunities with various organizations, including multinational corporations, NGOs and government agencies, offering valuable learning experience for students to prepare for their career. Compulsory language proficiency training will also be provided to raise students' competitiveness. Graduates can take up positions of administration, management, social analysis and programme coordination in multinational organizations, non-governmental organizations or the civil services sector. They can also further pursue Master or PhD degrees in local or overseas universities. 
Admission Requirements
Applicants shall be eligible to apply for admission of the above programmes if they have successfully completed a local course of study leading to the qualification of associate degree/higher diploma or equivalent, and have attained an acceptable level of proficiency in the English and Chinese languages. For application to the Gerontology programme, applicants from all disciplines are welcome but those with an associate degree or a higher diplomain health sciences, social sciences, psychology and counseling, human and life sciences, or Chinese medicine is preferable; for application to the Exercise Science and Health Education programme, the associate degree/higher diploma should be in sports-related discipline; for application to the Global Studies programme, students from all disciplines are welcome. The deadline for application is 9 February 2012. Details of application can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/adm/subdegree/.
