[date]30 January 2012[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Business School MBA ranked 28th globally by Financial Times, 2012
Career progression ranked no.4 in the world
Full Time MBA graduates achieve outstanding career advancement
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Business School announced that its MBA program is ranked 28th in the world according to the Financial Times 2012 rankings of the top 100 full-time global MBA programs released today.
The ranking results demonstrate the ability of CUHK MBA program to ensure its graduates’ career progression, salary percentage increase and aims achieved, CUHK MBA ranked no.4, no.5 and no.9 in the world respectively and no.1 in Hong Kong in all three measures (please refer to “Note on criteria of measurement” on Page 2 for explanation of the above criteria of measurement).
CUHK’s MBA program was also cited as the top ranked for career placement in Hong Kong and no.2 in the Greater China Region for salary percentage increase. These outstanding results for the employment rate and career advancement of its global Full Time MBA graduates can be attributed to the Business School’s world class MBA curriculum and its personalized “Individual Career Counselling Program”. In addition, this comprehensive career service which has been of such a great benefit to the Full Time Global MBA graduates has been launched for the Business School’s Part Time MBA students.
Professor Tak-Jun Wong, Dean of the CUHK Business School, said, “Thanks to the tremendous support from our faculty, alumni and students, CUHK MBA is recognized as one of the leading MBAs in the world. In this Asian century, our uniquely strong alumni network in Asia - particularly in the Great China Region - provides an unparalleled opportunity for students to build a global business network. We are proud to be celebrating the MBA’s 45th anniversary this year with such great results.”
“CUHK MBA offers a coherent set of programs to develop the next generation of global business leaders for the Asian century. With both international and mainland China focus expertise, we provide the right MBA program for Chinese students seeking global perspective, or for international students who truly want to get to grips with business in China. We also have a diversified coverage across different industries for students to develop an exchange platform for expertise sharing with business leaders from the PRC and around the world. We are honoured that our unique Asian focus curriculum is recognized internationally.” said Professor Michael J. Ferguson, Associate Dean of CUHK Business School and Director of MBA Programs.
Commenting on the success of the “Individual Career Counselling Program”, Mr. Lawrence Chan, Administrative Director of Marketing and Student Recruiting, MBA Programs, said, “2011 was a good year for our students’ career placement. By mid 2011, nearly 100% of our graduates were employed globally. One of the key career objectives of our full time students is career change and about 75% achieved this important goal in 2011. In which, about 50% of our students were employed by major financial institutions. A substantial proportion of our students joined Chinese investment banks, which are becoming major players in the financial and capital market. We believe our world class, international/China-oriented program made a significant contribution to their success. Other graduates joined major FMCG companies, luxury brands and management consulting companies. And we are witnessing a growing trend of part time students seeking career switches after they finish the MBA.”
The new personalized "Individual Career Counselling Program" for part time students is supported by professional consultants, typically experienced executive search specialists commissioned by CUHK Business School. These consultants provide 1-on-1 expert job search advice and all-round career development coaching to Part Time MBA students. 
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management – and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, Marketing. It was Hong Kong’s first business school offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the school offers 10 undergraduate programs and 31 graduate programs (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD) 
In the Financial Times’ 2011 global rankings, CUHK’s EMBA program is at no.14. The FT also ranks the School’s EMBA as the number 1 independent EMBA program in Asia Pacific. CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (21,000+) in Hong Kong – many of whom are key business leaders. The faculty currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Professor TJ Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School.
Note on ranking criteria of measurement
Career progress: This is calculated according to changes in the level of seniority and the size of the company alumni are working in now versus before their MBA.
Salary percentage increase: The percentage increase in average alumni salary from before the MBA to today as a percentage of the pre-MBA salary. 
Aims achieved: The extent to which alumni fulfilled their goals or reasons for doing an MBA. 
Placement success: Alumni who used the careers service at their business school were asked to rank its effectiveness in their job search.