[date]13 December 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Department of Economics and Department of Educational Administration and Policy Jointly Present 'International Symposium on the Economics of Education'
Education Sector and Public are Welcome
[/title]
The Department of Economics and the Department of Educational Administration and Policy at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) jointly organize the 'International Symposium on the Economics of Education' to be held on campus on 17-18 December. The symposium aims at facilitating interaction among local and international academics specializing in economics of education, as well as providing a platform for researchers, policymakers, and educational practitioners to discuss key educational issues of Hong Kong. The opening ceremony will be officiated by Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK. Interested members of the education sector and the public are welcome to join and please contact the CUHK Faculty of Education at 3943-6776 for registration on or before 15 December (Thursday).  
Education, both as a multidisciplinary research field and as a profession, draws heavily from economics, among other disciplines. Economic perspectives and methods can be employed in many issues of education, including the analysis of public finance, school choice, ability tracking, accountability, teacher incentives, occupational training, and social equality. In Hong Kong, economic perspectives and research have framed much of the discussion and decision-making in education. The increasing availability of high quality data in Hong Kong will promote the application of economics to education. 
Three renowned scholars are invited to give keynote speeches in the symposium. They are Joshua Angrist (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), Henry M. Levin (Columbia University), and Mark Rosenzweig (Yale University). Prominent scholars from around the world will also present their research in several panels. They come from top universities from Canada, the US, the UK, Israel, Australia, Europe and Mainland China to address topics ranging from early childhood education to higher education.  Some of the major themes are: college premium, education finance and spending, higher education, human capital investment and return, peer effects, preschool education, school management, teacher performance, special education, and student outcomes. 
Members of the education sector and the public are welcome to join the opening ceremony and the first keynote lecture of the symposium. Details are as follows:  

Date:
17 December 2011 (Saturday) 

Time:
8:45 a.m. - 10:15 a.m.

Venue:
LT1, Esther Lee Building, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin 

Officiating guest:
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 

Keynote speaker:
Henry M. Levin (Columbia University) 

Topic:
Rediscovering the Roles of Noncognitive Elements of Human Capital 
Language:
English 
Registration and enquiries:
Ms. Angel Sun, Faculty of Education, CUHK (Tel: 3943-6776)
Website:
http://conference.econ.cuhk.edu.hk/
