[date]19 January 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Anthropology Department Releases Research Findings on Nepalese Drug Abusers in Hong Kong[/title]
Among Hong Kong’s ethnic minorities, the Nepalese have the highest rate of drug abuse. According to the Central Registry of Drug Abuse, the number of reported Nepalese drug abusers has been rising in the last few years, reaching 258 in 2010. The situation is alarming. Commissioned by the Beat Drugs Fund, Prof. Siumi Maria Tam and researcher Mr. Wai-Man Tang of the Anthropology Department at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) conducted a research on Nepalese drug abusers in Hong Kong to enhance understanding on their situation. The results showed that a large majority of drug abusers started taking drugs between 10 and 19 years old, and more than 90% of them abused heroin. Nearly 70% of them had joined a residential rehabilitation programme in Nepal and more than 70% of them had used the service of a methadone clinic in Hong Kong. Negative social and familial experiences were the main factors conducive to drug abuse among them.
Research Methods and Sample
The research period was from September 2009 to June 2010. Data was collected using both qualitative and quantitative methods: 1) survey; 2) participant observation; and 3) individual interviews. For the survey, a total of 89 Hong Kong Nepalese drug abusers and 21 Hong Kong Nepalese non-drug abusers were invited to respond to the survey questionnaire. Drug-abuser respondents were recruited among participants of drug-related services, which include methadone programme and drug rehabilitation centres in Hong Kong and Nepal. Participant observation was carried out in a drug rehabilitation centre in Hong Kong. Interviews were conducted with 10 Hong Kong Nepalese drug abusers and 10 professionals from academic and non-governmental organizations in Nepal.
In the survey, the sample of drug abusers consists of 85% males. The average age was 27. Of the sample, 35% were born in Hong Kong, and over 90% were descendants of Gurkha soldiers in the British Army. The average age of their coming to Hong Kong for long term stay was 18. After coming to Hong Kong, on average they spent 75% of their time in Hong Kong. A majority (over 80%) of them attained a junior secondary level of education and about one-third worked in the wholesale/retail industry.
Key Findings
1. Drug Abuse Pattern
Heroin No. 4 was the most commonly abused drug (over 95%). A majority (80%) abused marijuana at the first time of drug taking. A large majority (90%) started taking drugs between 10 and 19 years old. Half of the sample used injection. A majority (90%) abused drugs in both Hong Kong and Nepal.
2. Drug Related Services
In Nepal, residential rehabilitation service is most commonly used by Hong Kong Nepalese drug abusers (near 70%), whereas in Hong Kong the most common service used was methadone clinic (over 70%). Less than one-third joined residential rehabilitation programme in Hong Kong.
3. Perceived Reasons for Drug Abuse
Mood changing was the main reason for drug abuse as perceived by the respondents. To enjoy the company of friends was secondary. Respondents claimed they abused heroin, Tidigesic and ice for changing mood, while marijuana, Nitrosun, and cough syrup were abused for social purposes. Female drug abusers were less likely to abuse drugs for social purposes.
4. Socio-Cultural Environment of Drug Abusers
Comparing drug abusers and non-drug abusers, the familial factors (especially the lack of parental care) and cultural factors (such as the concepts of drug and masculinity in Nepali culture) are the main reasons conducive to drug abuse. Of the sample of drug abusers, less than 10% claimed that they had faced discrimination in Hong Kong. Comparatively, more than 30% of non-drug abusers claimed that they had been discriminated against in Hong Kong. Through individual interviews and participant observation, it was found that drug abusers were isolated from mainstream society, and they tended to conduct their daily life within their own ethnic community. Thus isolation from mainstream society was a self-defense mechanism to avoid discrimination. In Hong Kong, Nepalese do not have equal opportunities in education, employment, social and medical services. This further isolated them and resulted in the phenomenon of ‘ghettoization’.
Recommendations: A Culture-based Humanistic Approach
The research showed that drug abuse among Hong Kong Nepalese is closely related to their negative social-cultural experience. To prevent ethnic minorities from early drug abuse, to facilitate their rehabilitation, and to prevent relapse, a culture-based humanistic approach is needed. In the short and medium term, collaboration with ex-drug abusers and their communities should be enhanced, and a culture-based programme should be re-designed to involve them as partners.
Primary Prevention: In order to prevent Hong Kong Nepalese from early drug abuse, anti-drug messages should be conveyed through the media and social settings that they are familiar with. The messages should be targeted at the high risk group (10 to 19 age group), their families and peers whose involvement is especially important.
Secondary Prevention: To prevent Hong Kong Nepalese drug abusers from further drug abuse and to facilitate their rehabilitation, a variety of approaches should be made available. The programmes should be sensitive towards the cultural needs of drug abusers and the drug abusers’ families should be engaged as part of the rehabilitation programmes. More Nepalese social workers and outreach workers are also needed.
Tertiary Prevention: To prevent Hong Kong Nepalese ex-drug abusers from relapse, it is important to help them reintegrate into society and to help them build new social networks. It is important to enhance the awareness of ethnic culture and equal opportunity among social workers-in-training, as well as for staff in drug-related programmes, by adding the culture components in the curriculum.
In the long run, to tackle the drug abuse subculture among Hong Kong Nepalese, the Hong Kong SAR government should take a leadership role in eliminating structural discrimination in the Hong Kong society. Equal access to important resources such as education, employment and participation in social development must be guaranteed. The government should also make efficacious use of the cultural and human resources of ethnic minorities to create a multicultural society.