[date]17 January 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Faculty Celebrates 20th Anniversary
Organized Asian Engineering Deans Summit 2012 
To Embrace a Better Future in Engineering Education 
[/title]
The 'Asian Engineering Deans Summit' organized by the Faculty of Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today ended with success (17 January 2012). The event brought over 20 deans of engineering schools from different parts of Asia including mainland China, Singapore, Japan, Thailand and Korea to share valuable experience on engineering education. With the theme of 'Engineering Asia for a Better Future', the Summit had an overview of the technology related policies and development in different Asian cities, and explored ways to enhance quality engineering education in Asia and strengthen research collaborations in the field. It was also one of the signature events to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Faculty of Engineering at CUHK.
The opening ceremony was officiated by Prof. Benjamin W. Wah, Provost, CUHK; Prof. Wong Ching Ping, Dean of Engineering, CUHK; and Prof. Shiyi Chen, Dean of Engineering, Peking University. Prof. Wong Ching Ping said, 'The Faulty of Engineering has been committed to nurturing future leaders in engineering to meet the needs of the industries and society for further development. The Summit aims to achieve a better future by gaining more solid understanding of the emerging trend in Asian engineering education and collecting views from Asian engineering deans.'
Senior government officials and experts in the field of education, science and technology were also invited to deliver plenary speeches, including Mr. Terence Chan Sing Sing, Assistant Commissioner for Innovation and Technology (Infrastructure and Quality Services), HKSAR Government; Mr. Wallace Lau, Principal Assistant Secretary for Education, HKSAR Government; Prof. Low Teck Seng, Managing Director, ASTAR, Singapore; Prof. Chan Eng Soon, Dean of Engineering, National University of Singapore; and Prof. Jaiyong Lee, Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Yonsei University, Korea.  Delegates also visited the Faculty of Engineering at CUHK and the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks.
Details of the Summit are available at www.erg.cuhk.edu.hk/aedm.