[date]26 March 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development to Host Conference on 'HKEx and the Market Structure Revolution'
Now Open for Online Registration
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Law Faculty's Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development(CFRED) will host a conference on 'HKEx and the Market Structure Revolution' this Saturday (31 March) in Hong Kong.  Panel members include Prof. Christopher Gane, Dean, Faculty of Law, CUHK; Dr. Kalok Chan, Associate Dean of Business and Management, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; Mr. Richard Leung, Senior Vice President and Co-Head of IT Division, HKEx; and Mr. Keith Lui, Executive Director, Supervision of Markets, Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong. Interested parties may visit the website https://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2012conference/cfred/registration.php for online registration. 
The conference will bring leading scholars from around the world to discuss the exchange market structure revolution and the quality of the Hong Kong market with regulators and market officials. 
Details are as follows:

Topic:
'HKEx and the Market Structure Revolution'

Date:
Saturday, 31 March 2012

Venue:
CUHK Graduate Law Centre2/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central, Hong Kong

Programme rundown and speakers list are attached.

About CFRED 
The Faculty of Law of CUHK formed the Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development (CFRED) to support and facilitate research in all areas of law affecting commerce and business dealings, including the fields of banking law, capital markets, commercial law, contract law, corporate law, investment law, intellectual property, securities regulation, international trade law, tax law, and any other economically focused area of law in which a member of the CUHK Law Faculty addresses his or her research. 
CFRED organizes and holds conferences, workshops, seminars and colloquia. It manages the CFRED Working Paper Series and serves as a vehicle to organize team research projects and seek funding for the latter. 
CFRED actively seeks affiliations and collaborations with leading research centres and institutes located worldwide that pursue aims similar or complementary to its own, whether those centres or institutes be in universities, the public sector or privately managed. In particular, CFRED aims to have solid links in each of four economic areas: China, Asia generally, Europe and North America.