[date]3 February 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar Lecture 2011-12
 Professor David C. L. Liu from Taiwan Tsing Hua University to Speak on ‘A College Student of the 21st Century: Educated and Civilized’
Now Open for Public Registration
[/title]
Prof. David C.L. Liu, William Mong Honorary Chair Professor of Computer Science, Tsing Hua University in Taiwan and Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar 2011-12, will speak on ‘A College Student of the 21st Century: Educated and Civilized’ at Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) next Wednesday (8 February), sharing his ideas on ‘educated’ and ‘civilized’ and how university education is related to these concepts. Interested members of the public can call 3943 8538 (Miss Ho) for registration. Admission is free..
Prof. David C. L. Liu is an internationally renowned scholar in computer science who was the Associate Provost at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign from 1996 to 1998. Later from 1998 to 2002, Professor Liu became the President of the Tsing Hua University in Taiwan where he is currently the William Mong Honorary Chair Professor of Computer Science. He received his Bachelor of Science degree at the Cheng Kung University in Taiwan and his Master of Science and Doctor of Science degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His teaching career spans over forty years at MIT, the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, and the Tsing Hua University in Taiwan. 
Since 1989, CUHK Shaw College has been organizing the Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar Lecture to invite an internationally distinguished scholar or individual to visit the College and give lectures annually. Past visiting scholars included Prof. Yang Chen-ning, Prof. Lee Yuan-tseh, Prof. Yau Shing-tung, Prof. Ho Ping-ti, Prof. Andrew Yao, Prof. Charles Kao, Prof. Deborah Davis, Prof. Xu Guanhua, and Prof. Harry Lewis etc. 
Public is welcome to attend the lecture. Details are as follows:

Date:
8 February 2012 (Wednesday)

Time:
5:00 pm

Venue:
Lecture Theatre, Shaw College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Language:
Cantonese with English interpretation

Transportation:
Shuttle bus will depart the University MTR station at 4:25pm and 4:40pm

Registration:
Please contact Miss Ho（Tel: 3943 8538）
