[date]29 February 2012[/date]
[title]Tree Planting Ceremony Held at New Asia College to Celebrate 20th Anniversary of CUHK Department of Japanese Studies
[/title]
The Department of Japanese Studies (JAS) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) celebrated its 20th anniversary by joining New Asia College to plant 20 cherry trees on campus yesterday (28 February). The event brought together about 100 friends of New Asia College and JAS, representatives from the Japanese business community, and staff and students at the Pavilion of Harmony to welcome the arrival of cherry trees to the beautiful campus of CUHK. 
The tree planting ceremony was officiated by Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Mr. Daisuke Matsunaga, Deputy Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong; Mr. &amp; Mrs. Mike Mizoguchi, President of MRT (HK) Co. Ltd.; Mr. &amp; Mrs. Ronald Chao, Vice-Chairman of Novel Enterprises Ltd.; Prof. Henry Nai-ching Wong, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and former Head of New Asia College, CUHK; Mr. Leung Ying-wai, Chairman, Board of Trustees of New Asia College, CUHK; Prof. Chu Ka-hou, Acting Head of New Asia College, CUHK; Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Prof. Leung Yuen-sang, Dean, Faculty of Arts, CUHK; Prof. Lynne Nakano, Chairman, JAS, CUHK; and Prof. Takanori Kitamura, Professor, JAS, CUHK. 
Cherry blossoms mark the arrival of spring – a season with new hopes and opportunities. 'The trees will fully integrate with the Pavilion and with the beautiful campus of CUHK to reflect the harmony between man and nature. When the trees blossom, all students at CUHK – including those who haven't had a chance to study in Japan– can enjoy hanami (or 'flower viewing') on campus,' said Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung in his welcoming remarks. 
New Asia College has a mission to encourage cultural exchange and mutual understanding between countries and regions. For over 40 years, the College has been organizing student exchange programmes with two universities in Japan, namely Asia University and Soka University. Besides, New Asia College also offers summer language programme in Kyototo enhance students' competence in Japanese and their understanding of the Japanese culture. The planting of cherry trees at New Asia College, therefore, has a significant meaning. 
CUHK has offered courses in Japanese language and studies since 1967. Since 1991, JAS has offered a major programme in Japanese Studies that provides students with comprehensive training in Japanese society, culture and language. The programme sends all of its major students for one year of study at an exchange partner university in Japan. All JAS students are offered exchange places at 18 Japanese universities including first-tier institutions such as Kyoto University, Osaka University,Waseda University, Hitotsubashi University and Meiji University. Since 1992, over $23 million in scholarships has been secured to enable nearly 500 major students to study in Japan.  The Department is committed to nurturing culturally-sensitive and committed graduates with strong capabilities in critical analysis and problem solving who will make great contributions to the Hong Kong society.