[date]18 April 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Fok Tai-fai as Pro-Vice-Chancellor[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has approved the appointment of Prof. Fok Tai-fai as a Pro-Vice-Chancellor for two years, from 1 January 2013. Professor Fok is appointed in succession to Prof. Jack Chun-yiu Cheng who will continue to be Professor of Orthopaedics and Traumatology. The University Council is deeply grateful to Professor Cheng for his dedicated service and exceptional contributions in the last decade as Pro-Vice-Chancellor. Professor Fok will join Provost Prof. Benjamin W. Wah and Pro-Vice-Chancellors Prof. Ching Pak-chung, Prof. Michael King-man Hui, Prof. Henry Nai-ching Wong, Prof. Xu Yangsheng and Prof. Hau Kit-tai in assisting the Vice-Chancellor in the governance of the University. 
Professor Fok is currently Professor of Paediatrics and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at CUHK. He joined the Department of Paediatrics of CUHK in 1984 and served as Sub-Dean and Associate Dean before he took up the Deanship in 2004. Professor Fok will step down from the Deanship of Medicine with effect from 1 January 2013. 
Much pleased to accept the appointment, Professor Fok remarked, 'I am gratified to have served as Dean of Medicine in the past 8 years.  Together with many able colleagues, we are happy to have witnessed the Faculty growing from strength to strength.  It is my honour to be appointed as Pro-Vice-Chancellor, and I am happy to take up the new challenge with a view to making greater contribution to CUHK.'
Professor Fok graduated in Medicine from the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and received his MD in CUHK. A paediatrician and a neonatologist by training, he served in HKU and Queen Mary Hospital as a Lecturer in Paediatrics, and spent a number of years working in the Neonatal Units at the John Radcliffe Hospital in the University of Oxford, UK and the McMaster University Medical Centre, Canada. He was also the Chief of Service in Paediatrics at the Prince of Wales Hospital. 
An internationally renowned neonatologist, Professor Fok has published over 360 research articles in international journals, and is serving as a member of the editorial boards of a number of international and national medical journals. He is an Honorary Life Member of the Hong Kong Paediatric Society, a Fellow of the Royal Colleges of Physicians (London and Edinburgh), Royal College of Paediatricians and Child Health, and the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine and Hong Kong College of Paediatricians. He serves on a large number of committees and advisory boards of the Government and non-government organizations and has contributed significantly to the community. He is Honorary Consultant and Cluster Coordinator in Paediatrics of the New Territories East Cluster, Board Member and Chairman of the Medical Services Development Committee of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority, Deputy Chairman of the Preliminary Investigation Committee of the Hong Kong Medical Council, and the Immediate Past President of the Hong Kong College of Paediatricians. 
Professor Fok has also received many honours and awards throughout his career, including the Outstanding Asian Paediatrician Award (2003), the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award of CUHK (2002), and Master Teaching Award of the Faculty of Medicine (2003). He had also been honoured with the Most Outstanding Teacher Award of the Faculty of Medicine five times.