[date]29 December 2011[/date]
[title]CUHK Social Science Adopts Dual-mode Admission for Four-year Curriculum
Two New Interdisciplinary Programmes Launched to Meet Societal Needs
[/title]
To tie in with the implementation of the '3+3+4' academic structure in 2012, the Faculty of Social Science of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will introduce the broad-based admission scheme (JUPAS Code: JS4801) to allow students to experience different social science disciplines in Year 1 before deciding on the most suitable major programme with the guidance and advice from associate deans and teachers from the Faculty. No quota will be set for a particular programme and students do not need to compete against each other for their desired programme. Meanwhile, programme-based admission will be adopted in parallel with broad-based admission to offer greater flexibility for students. In response to the development of society, the Faculty will also launch two new interdisciplinary programmes — 'Urban Studies' and 'Global Economics and Finance'— to nurture future social leaders and professionals in global economics and finance. Nurturing Students to Embrace Challenges of Society The Faculty of Social Science at CUHK is committed to nurturing students with social consciousness as well as a scientific and analytical mind to face challenges of the ever-changing society. In recent years, Hong Kong's social, political and economic developments are getting more diversified and an increasing number of social science graduates have developed interest in government and community work. As such, the Faculty is seizing the opportunity brought about by the new 3+3+4 reform to introduce broad-based admission, allowing students to understand their own capability and interest through first year's interdisciplinary learning. It also helps students develop broadmindedness and ability to analyse social problems with a wide variety of subject knowledge and perspectives.Interdisciplinary Learning in the First Year Most of the major subjects offered by the Faculty of Social Science are new to the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) graduates. To ensure that students have adequate exposure to these subjects before choosing their major, the Faculty will admit a total of 89 students for the 2012 entry from both JUPAS and non-JUPAS channels via broad-based admission, allowing them to take various basic courses in Year 1, including at least three Faculty Package courses offered by different departments/schools at the Faculty. Under the guidance of teachers, students can assess their own capabilities and choose the most appropriate major programme from the eight on offer (Architectural Studies, Economics, Geography and Resource Management, Government and Public Administration, Journalism and Communication, Psychology, Sociology, and Urban Studies). Personal Academic Counselling Associate deans and teachers from various departments/schools at the Faculty will serve as academic advisors to provide personal advice and guidance for students on academic problems and programme selection. Through interviews and counselling sessions, the three associate deans from the Departments of Economics, Psychology and Sociology respectively will gain a better understanding of students' aptitudes, interests and competence before offering advice. The students will then make their preliminary choice of major programme and discuss with and obtain advice from the respective teachers of the programme. The comprehensive and personal counselling will help students grasp an in-depth understanding of their preferred subjects and enhance teacher-student relationship. To relieve students from stress, no individual quotas will be set for programmes. Students do not need to compete against each other for their desired programme. Dual-mode Admission for Greater FlexibilityTo offer greater flexibility for students, programme-based admission will be adopted in parallel with broad-based admission. Students can directly apply for the ten four-year major programmes: Architectural Studies, Economics, Geography and Resource Management, Government and Public Administration, Journalism and Communication, Psychology, Social Work, Sociology, Urban Studies, and Global Economics and Finance. (Social Work and Global Economics and Finance will only adopt programme-based admission.)Urban Studies to Nurture Future Leaders of Society The interdisciplinary major programme in Urban Studies is jointly organized by the Department of Geography and Resource Management and the School of Architecture. It explores the complexities and challenges of the rapidly evolving urban lifestyle, the global urbanization processes and the various strands of urbanism. The programme enables students to inquire broadly and deeply into the nature and dynamics of cities through the theoretical perspectives of different schools of thoughts, the rigorous application of skills and techniques for urban analysis, and the contextual learning of the world's best practices in sustainable urban development, planning and design. The programme will prepare students for a wide range of careers and will equip them with a uniquely multi-disciplinary perspective in investigating and understanding urban issues and developing sustainable solutions to developmental challenges found in Hong Kong, the Pearl River Delta region and beyond.Global Economics and Finance to Groom Banking and Finance ProfessionalsThe interdisciplinary major programme in Global Economics and Finance is jointly organized by the Department of Economics and the Business School to provide students with solid interdisciplinary training in economics and finance in the context of global economy, and to cater for societal needs by equipping students with strong analytical ability and a global mindset to meet future challenges of the banking and finance industry. The new programme will cover topics not on offer in conventional economics or finance programmes, e.g. 'monetary systems around the world and their interrelationships', 'the emergence of China and its impact on the international economic and financial order', 'asset bubbles', 'financial crises and contagion' and 'corporate social responsibility and sustainability of financial institutions in a global context'. The programme will also provide overseas exchange and internship opportunities to strengthen students' knowledge. Anthology for Senior Secondary Students Social science is concerned with the well-being of people and society. It provides a multitude of theories and research methods for issues relating to individuals, families and interpersonal relationship as well as socio-economic and political developments of society. The Faculty has recently published an anthology —《八度空間──社會科學的視角》, collecting 40 articles authored by experienced scholars from the eight departments/schools of the Faculty, analysing various hot social topics from professional angles. The book aims at introducing basic knowledge on social science to young people and arousing their interest in the discipline.