[date]31 January 2012[/date]
[title]World-renowned Composer Dr. Lam Bun Ching to Speak on ‘Identity and Difference: the Contemporary Artist in Global and Local Culture’ 
at CUHK Chung Chi College Annual Education Conference
Public is Welcome 
[/title]
Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is very honoured to have invited Dr. Lam Bun Ching, a world-renowned composer and a music graduate of Chung Chi College in 1976, to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2011/2012. During her visit from 30 January to 10 February, Dr. Lam will be meeting College members in a series of activities including the Annual Education Conference, College Life Luncheon Talk, College Assembly and Tolo Nocturne, etc. In the Annual Education Conference to be held this Saturday (4 February), Dr. Lam will share her insights on ‘Identity and Difference: the Contemporary Artist in Global and Local Culture’ and the Hong Kong New Music Ensemble will give a live music performance of Dr. Lam’s work titled Omi Hakkei. Interested members of the public can refer to the following website and register for free: www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/. 
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College. With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff and students, the programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong. In the past 29 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields including Prof. C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the mainland; Prof. Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University; and Prof. Pai Hsien-yung Kenneth, Professor Emeritus, Department of East Asian Languages &amp; Cultural Studies of the University of California, Santa Barbara, USA, were invited to visit the College as Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows. This year’s programme is also one of the major celebratory events of the College’s 60th Anniversary. 
The Annual Education Conference is the highlight of Dr. Lam’s visit toChung Chi College.  Details are as follows: 

Date :
4 February 2012 (Saturday)

Time:
10:00 a.m. 

Venue:
Lee Hysan Concert Hall, Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College 

Topic:
'Identity and Difference: the Contemporary Artist in Global and Local Culture' 

Guest speakers:
Dr. Lam Bun Ching, Chung Chi College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2011/12Prof. Tsang Yip Fat Richard, Professor, Department of Cultural and Creative Arts, the Hong Kong Institute of EducationDr. Leung Hio Ming, Director of Macao ConservatoryMr. Leung Man Tao, media and cultural critic 

Moderator:
Prof. Mak Su Yin, Vice-Chairperson of the Department of Music, CUHK 

Language:
Cantonese, with simultaneous interpretation in English provided 

Registration:
www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/ 
