[date]26 July 2012[/date]
[title]The Chinese University Recruits The Largest Number of Candidates with Grade A in Five or Six Subjects in Hong Kong’s Last HKALE  Exam[/title]
In this final year when the HKALE (Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination) is used as one of the major criteria for university admission, The Chinese University of Hong Kong has recruited a total of 2,451 candidates through the Joint University Programmes Admission System, or JUPAS.  Out of these, 2,428 students, or 99% of all HKALE candidates admitted, have CUHK programmes as their Band A choices.  The University also recruited three of the four candidates territory-wide who scored six grade As in the 2012 examination, as well as five candidates who scored five grade As.  Furthermore, close to 40% of all candidates in Hong Kong who scored three As or above were offered admission by CUHK.  Out of all HKALE candidates who have at least one subject at A grade, 46.8% have been offered places by CUHK, the highest percentage amongst all nine institutions participating in JUPAS.
Students admitted on the strength of four or more As have opted for programmes in Global Business Studies, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis, and Professional Accountancy in the Faculty of Business Administration, while others would take up programmes in the Faculties of Arts, Science, and Social Science, including Chinese Language and Literature, History, Philosophy, Mathematics, Journalism and Communication, Psychology, and Sociology.  There is considerable diversity in the choice of majors for these students, which speaks for the fact that their options are primarily guided by their academic interests.
The ranked order of programmes/professional fields in terms of the highest calibre of candidates admitted is as follows: Global Business Studies, Journalism and Communication, Mathematics, Medicine, and Psychology.  In terms of the median score of candidates admitted, the top five programmes/professional fields are Global Business Studies, International Business and Chinese Enterprise, Medicine, Pharmacy, and Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science.
In 2012, the Chinese University also recruited 77 of its freshmen through the "School Principal's Nomination Scheme", and 14 through the "Self-Recommendation Scheme".  Another 14 students were admitted through the "Sports Scholarship Scheme".  Most of these 14 sportsmen/sportswomen are members of teams that represent Hong Kong officially, and have excelled themselves in rowing, swimming, synchronized swimming and fencing.
A mathematics genius who demonstrates his mettle through volunteer tutoring service for his fellow students
Chan Heung is the only Science stream student with five grade As in Hong Kong, his five "A" subjects being Chinese, English, Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Physics.  He will be studying Mathematics at CUHK.  He has been a volunteer tutor in mathematics for his classmates since Form 4, in which capacity he has found it a pleasure to share his knowledge with others.  He looks forward to his perspective being expanded through a university education, and doing research in mathematical theories in addition to the prescribed curriculum.  In the long run, he aspires for achievements in his studies and research.
Proactive efforts and lots of hard work help candidate to eliminate impediment from loss of sight
Wong Ka-ho, who has been blind since childhood, has been admitted to the Department of Social Work at CUHK.  His perseverance and resolve are evident from the fact that he has all along insisted on attending a mainstream school.  Ka-ho is very grateful to his family, teachers and social workers for their support and encouragement, and hopes that he could in turn offer his service to others in need, when he qualifies as a social worker, through his own example in striving for success.  The Chinese University is prepared and equipped to offer comprehensive support to students with special needs, which includes, amongst others, the availability of a rehabus, and facilities that match the specific conditions of these students.
Seeking commercial experience and paying back to society
Yiu Yan-ki is admitted to the Global Business Studies programme at CUHK on the strength of six A Levels at A grade.  She says: "Many people in Hong Kong do look at the business sector negatively, on the assumption that all that the businessman wants is to make quick money.  However, what motivates me to take up business as my major is an urge to be able to contribute what I learn to society, in the hope that the community's generally negative attitude towards the business sector may be changed.  I am planning to start my career with an investment bank.  Having gained some experience of how the world of business works, I will then move on to the public sector and work for the benefit of the community at large."  Yan-ki is eagerly looking forward to modules in the Global Business Studies programme which are pursued abroad, through which she hopes to be able to learn about business policies and practice in Europe, the United States and the rest ofAsia.
The 2013 HKALE  Examination is for private candidates only.