[date]27 July 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Decides Not to Submit Tender for Private Hospital Site at Current Exercise[/title]
Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Dean, Faculty of Medicine, issued the following letter to staff, students and alumni today regarding the University's decision on tender submission for private hospital site:
Dear colleagues, students and alumni,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been seriously considering the establishment of a CUHK Private Teaching Hospital since the government rolled out private hospital sites in December 2009. The sole purpose of the University has always been service to the community at large. The vision of the University in the proposed private hospital project is to build an institution that provides patient-centred, high-quality healthcare services at transparent and affordable costs. It is also intended to benefit both the general public and the University, by serving as another base for clinical research and medical education and training.
In 2010, the University submitted an Expression of Interest (EOI), on a non-committal basis, for the development of the CUHK Private Teaching Hospital in Tai Po to the HKSAR Government and formed a special taskforce led by Dr. Edgar W.K. Cheng, Senior Advisor to the University Council. Under the leadership of Dr. Cheng, the taskforce proactively studied the government's tender requirements and formulated a concrete proposal to develop the private hospital.
After continued efforts and deliberation over the past two years, unfortunately, the University was not able to reach a consensus on details of collaboration with the potential partner. After considering the report and recommendations recently received from the taskforce, the University Council decided not to submit tender by the closing date today. The University is deeply grateful for the effort made by Dr. Cheng and the members of the taskforce, and will continue to explore different ways to further its objective of serving the public. 
Yours faithfully,Fok Tai-faiDean, Faculty of Medicine
27 July 2012