[date]18 May 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development and Duisenberg School of Finance Jointly Host Conference on ‘Institutional Structure of Financial Regulation: International Perspectives and Local Issues in Hong Kong and Mainland China’
Now Open for Online Registration
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Law Faculty’s Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development (CFRED) and The Duisenberg School of Finance, The Netherlands, will jointly host a conference on ‘Institutional Structure of Financial Regulation: International Perspectives and Local Issues in Hong Kong and Mainland China’ next Saturday (26 May) in Hong Kong. Panel members include Dr. Michael Taylor, Financial Stability Board Secretariat; Dr. Eddy Fong, Chairman, Securities and Futures Commission, HKSAR; and Mr. Andrew Sheng, Chief Adviser, China Banking Regulation Commission. Interested parties may visit the website https://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2012conference/0526/cfred/registration.php for online registration.
The conference will bring a number of very distinguished speakers, including regulatory officials, practitioners and academics from around the world to examine the institutional structure reform of financial regulation presently taking place at the international level, and thus policy implications for local reforms in Hong Kong and mainland China.
Details are as follows:
Topic: ‘Institutional Structure of Financial Regulation: International Perspectives and Local Issues in Hong Kong and Mainland China’
Date: Saturday, 26 May 2012
Venue: CUHK Graduate Law Centre 2/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central, Hong Kong
Enquiries: Tel: (852) 3943-1110; Fax: (852) 3943-8685 Email: enqcfredconf@cuhk.edu.hk
Programme rundown and speakers list are attached.
About CFRED
The Faculty of Law of CUHK formed the Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development (CFRED) to support and facilitate research in all areas of law affecting commerce and business dealings, including the fields of banking law, capital markets, commercial law, contract law, corporate law, investment law, intellectual property, securities regulation, international trade law, tax law, and any other economically focused area of law in which a member of the CUHK Law Faculty addresses his or her research. CFRED organizes and holds conferences, workshops, seminars and colloquia. It manages the CFRED Working Paper Series and serves as a vehicle to organize team research projects and seek funding for the latter. CFRED actively seeks affiliations and collaborations with leading research centres and institutes located worldwide that pursue aims similar or complementary to its own, whether those centres or institutes be in universities, the public sector or privately managed. In particular, CFRED aims to have solid links in each of four economic areas: China, Asia generally, Europe and North America.
About Duisenberg School of Finance
Duisenberg School of Finance is committed to providing excellent financial education in order to create the next generation of responsible financial leaders. To achieve this, leading industry practitioners and world-class academics joined to develop a set of forward-looking financial programmes. These programmes integrate theory and practice, and encourage critical thinking and continuous reflection on the dynamic financial landscape.