[date]7 June 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Convocation Raised over HK$1 Million for Institute of Chinese Medicine to Acquire New Research Equipment[/title]
The Convocation of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK Convocation), in collaboration with the Alumni Affairs Office and the Office of Institutional Advancement, recently held the 'Road to Scientific Excellence' Fundraising Walkathon on campus to raise funds for the Institute of Chinese Medicine (ICM). Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Dr. Chan Chi-sun, Chairman of CUHK Convocation; Prof. Leung Ping-chung and Prof. Fung Kwok-pui, Directors of ICM, and representatives of major sponsors officiated at the kick-off ceremony. With the generous support from sponsors and donors, the event has raised over HK$1 million for ICM to acquire new research equipment – The High Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LCMS).
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung was pleased to see the earnest support from the community. 'Many scholars and scientists share the feeling that research can be a very lonely journey. But I am moved to see so many of you gather here today to support our researchers and their research work at CUHK. It is not a lonely journey anymore with your support. Thank you very much for your participation and donations to support this meaningful cause,' said Professor Sung.
Dr. Chan Chi-sun thanked the alumni and sponsors for their support. Dr. Chan said, 'One of the key mandates of the CUHK Convocation is to raise funds for CUHK and for charity. My heartfelt thanks go to all alumni donors and major sponsors for your generosity to support the scientific and technological development of ICM in further advancing its research standard and capacity.'
Prof. Leung Ping-chung also thanked the donors and sponsors for contributing to the worthy cause for the betterment of the community. 'ICM has been actively pursuing evidence-based clinical research on traditional Chinese medicine. We hope that the clinical breakthroughs in traditional Chinese medicine can complement the western medicine in bringing new cures and hopes for the patients. With the new LCMS, I am confident that the research throughput and standard will be further improved, speeding up the modernization of Chinese medicine,' said Professor Leung.
The event received enthusiastic support from over 150 students, staff, alumni and major sponsors, including Phoenix Charitable Foundation, Hong Kong Shun Lung Yan Chak Foundation Limited, CHIHO-TIANDE (HK) Ltd., Health Action, The Incorporated Trustees of Ryoden Development Charitable Trust, Twin Wealth Biotech Limited, and Wah Ching Chinese Medicine Foundation. Participants enjoyed the walk on the beautiful sunny day on campus from the University Piazza to the newly established science and research region – Area 39. Apart from paying a visit to the new Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building, participants also enjoyed the informative exhibition of ICM and attended the Chinese herbal medicine seminar delivered by Prof. Clara Lau Bik-san, Assistant Director of ICM. After the seminar, a tour to the Chinese Medicine Garden was arranged to enhance participants’ understanding of traditional Chinese medicine.
Formed in 1999, ICM is the only institute in Hong Kong where clinicians, scientists and traditional Chinese medicine practitioners conduct Chinese medicine research together in a comprehensive approach – from laboratory studies on quality control, biological activities to clinical applications. LCMS is the most advanced technique for both quantitative and qualitative analysis of traditional Chinese medicine and herbal medicine, combining the superior separation power of modern liquid chromatography with the ultra-sensitivity of mass spectrometry. It is essential for the research and chemical analysis of Chinese medicine.