[date]6 June 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK’s Response to the Verdict of Coroner's Court[/title]
A former staff member at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Ms Margaret Wong, passed away on 26 October 2010, and the Coroner's Court has delivered a verdict of suicide today (6 June). Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK, said, 'Ms Wong had worked in CUHK for 16 years and had served in various units, with dedication and excellent performance. The University and I have been saddened by the passing of a most worthy colleague, and we reiterate our heart-felt condolences to Ms Wong's family.'
CUHK has always upheld equality, righteousness, justice and mutual respect as its core values across the University, and especially in the area of human resources management. Committed to eliminating and preventing sexual harassment, the University set up the Committee Against Sexual Harassment ('the Committee') in 1995 to formulate its policy against sexual harassment, drawing reference from the guidelines provided by the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC) and professional legal advice. The policy is subject to periodic reviews and updates. The Committee has established a mechanism to handle all complaints of harassment in an impartial manner, and proper investigations will be conducted whenever complaints are lodged. Within this mechanism, and in those cases where harassment has been found to have occurred, the University will also take appropriate disciplinary action and may provide information to the police if deemed necessary. In handling all harassment complaints, the University seeks to protect the privacy of the complainants and complainees, as required by the law and ensure that all parties concerned are treated fairly and legitimately during the entire process.
The University has reflected on the entire case and will set up a special committee to carry out a comprehensive review covering the current policy against sexual harassment, complaint mechanisms, protection of complainants' and complainees' rights, etc. 
The University will further elevate the alertness of staff members of all levels and students towards the prevention of sexual harassment, and strengthen training on prevention of sexual harassment for all staff and students. It will also be more alert to emotional problems of staff and students and will enhance its support to those in need.
It is also hoped that all members of the University will seek help and support when confronted with problems, and face them with courage and a positive mind.  