[date]2 August 2012[/date]
[title]In Memoriam
Michael Edward McClellan (1958-2012)
[/title]
Michael Edward McClellan, Chairman of the Department of Music at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, passed away on Saturday, 28 July at the Prince of Wales Hospital due to complications from meningitis.  He was 53. 
McClellan was born on 16 August, 1958 in St. Paul, Minnesota, USA.  He received his BA in music from the University of Minnesota and MA and PhD degrees in musicology from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.  He began his career at the Department of Music of the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1996, and assumed the post of Chairman in 2005. 
McClellan's research specializations included French revolutionary opera and music in Vietnam during the French colonial period.  His recent work, which bridged historical and ethnographic methodologies, constituted a significant contribution to musical scholarship in Hong Kong. His publications set a high standard for their clarity of thought, elegance of argument, and commitment to intellectual advancement. 
McClellan was an exceptionally gifted teacher who nurtured generations of music students at the Chinese University.  In 2004, he received the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award in recognition of these accomplishments.  During his tenure as Department Chairman, he worked selflessly to foster research and teaching excellence not only in his own field of western historical musicology, but also in performance, composition, music theory and ethnomusicology.  He initiated significant academic links and exchanges between the Department of Music and institutions in greater China and overseas.  He was an enthusiastic supporter of the Chinese Music Archive, and in April 2011 personally served as the Director of the Chinese Opera Information Centre, a post he held until his untimely death. 
Faculty remember him as a kind and supportive colleague who was always ready to offer advice and support.  Students remember him for his dedicated mentoring, inspired teaching, and personal encouragement.   He will be greatly missed by all members and associates of the Department of Music.
McClellan is survived by his partner, Daniel Mattern of Washington, DC, sister Patricia Burnes of St. Paul, MN, and several nephews and nieces.  Funeral services will be held in the United States.  A memorial event for McClellan to take place at the Chinese University of Hong Kong is being organized and will be announced soon.
Department of MusicThe Chinese University of Hong Kong
Professor Michael E. McClellan memorial service will be held on 23 September.  For details, please refer to: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/mus/memorial.html