[date]17 August 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits 2,897 Candidates Who Sat the First HKDSE Examination[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong admitted, through JUPAS, 2,897 students who sat for the first Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) examination. Ninety-nine percent of them were Band A students.
Average of Level 5 in 5 Subjects
The Chinese University has an impressive intake this year. On average, the median HKDSE result of candidates was Level 5 in five subjects. Of all candidates who achieved Level 5 in five subjects or above in the HKDSE territory-wide, 25% were admitted by CUHK. The programmes chosen were mainly Enrichment Mathematics, Medicine, Psychology, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis/Quantitative Finance (broad-based admission), Global Business Studies, Pharmacy, and Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science (interdisciplinary major).
In terms of the highest caliber of candidates admitted, the top five programmes/streams are Psychology, Global Business Studies, Medicine, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis/Quantitative Finance, and Enrichment Mathematics, registering Level 5 in five/six subjects. 

Programme/Stream
HKDSE Results

Psychology
6 subjects 5 + 1 subject 5 + 5 in Mathematics Extended Part

Medicine
6 subjects 5 + 1 subject 5 + 5 in Mathematics Extended Part

Insurance, Finance and Actuarial Analysis/Quantitative Finance
6 subjects 5 + 1 subject 5 + 5 in Mathematics Extended Part

Enrichment Mathematics
6 subjects 5 + 1 subject 5 + 5 in Mathematics Extended Part

Global Business Studies
5 subjects 5 + 2 subjects 5 + 5 in Mathematics Extended Part

In terms of the median admission score of candidates based on HKDSE results, the top five programmes/streams are Global Business Studies, Pharmacy, Medicine, Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science, and International Business and Chinese Enterprise, registering Level 5 in five or above subjects.

Programme/Stream
Median HKDSE Result

Global Business Studies
4 subjects 5 + 1 subject 5

Pharmacy
2 subjects 5 + 3 subjects 5 + 1 subject Level 5

Medicine
1subject 5 + 4 subjects 5 + 1 subject Level 5

Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science
3 subjects 5 + 2 subjects Level 5

International Business and Chinese Enterprise
2 subjects 5 + 3 subjects 5

Performance in Extra Elective(s) also Considered
The University's minimum eligibility requirements for undergraduate admission are four core subjects and one elective. For this year's intake, most candidates (48%) sat for seven subjects and a Mathematics Extended Part Module. When calculating the admission scores, the University took into consideration candidates' performance in extra elective subjects.  Bonus points were awarded to up to two extra elective subjects (the 6th and 7th subjects), with the size of the bonus being dependent on performance. Many students who took the Mathematics (Compulsory Part) also took one of the Mathematics Extended Part Modules. Among those admitted to the University, 34% achieved Level 5 in at least three subjects including Mathematics Extended Part Module.

No. of HKDSE Subjects Taken
Percentage of Students

8 subjects+Maths Extended Part Module
0.9%

8 subjects
0.2%

7 subjects+Maths Extended Part Module
47.7%

7 subjects
25.9%

6 subjects+Maths Extended Part Module
15.3%

6 subjects
9.8%

5 subjects+Maths Extended Part Module
0.2%

Attracting Elites via Different Admission Schemes 
This year 61 students were admitted to CUHK through the “School Principal’s Nominations Scheme”.  Many of them were student leaders, or have excelled in different areas of achievements. Through the Sports Scholarship Scheme, 13 were admitted including many members of the Hong Kong team for swimming, life-saving, volleyball and track and field; some are members of the Hong Kong Junior Squad, excelling in fencing, swimming, track and field, triathlon, football, handball, and other areas.
The Mathematics Enrichment programme, launched in 2012, has attracted quite a number of students who are passionate about mathematics. Yeung Kwong-yiu is one of them. Kwong-yiu knew way back in primary school that he is good in maths. He also knows that maths provides good training for one's analytical skills and logical thinking, and will help to forge his future. He has taken part in many maths contests, such as the Hong Kong Mathematics Olympiad and enrichment programmes for exceptionally gifted students.  
The Chinese University motto and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, the Vice-Chancellor, have been the inspiration for the naming of two asteroids. Lee On-kei, who is admitted this year, also has an asteroid named after her. On-kei, who has always been fascinated by science, began studying the effects of oolong tea on cancer cells in Secondary 4. Experience in conducting experiments and taking part in international competition has helped to build up her devotion to scientific research. She hopes her research will benefit mankind in future.
Ho Yin-chiu, admitted under the Sports Scholarship Scheme, has been active in student track and field. Earlier this year, she broke the record for student shot put, as well as the Hong Kong youth record, and is now a member of Hong Kong's track and field team. As a secondary school student, Yin-chiu was active in all kinds of sports, including track and field, archery, basketball, hockey, shuttlecock kicking, life-saving, and was an indispensable member of the respective school teams. She will join the Physical Education, Exercise Science and Health programme. After graduation, she hopes to continue developing her career in sports and contribute to Hong Kong's sports sector. 
Enhanced Support for Prospective Students 
To provide HKDSE candidates with more information when they're preparing for university application, the University is holding an Orientation Day for Undergraduate Admissions on 27 October. All Faculties and the nine Colleges will have exhibition booths or talks to give students a better understanding of the University and its programmes, as well as admission requirements and arrangements under the new academic structure.
The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid will analyse this year's admissions data and post the median HKDSE results of the various programmes and other data on the CUHK website, to facilitate students in selecting Senior Secondary subjects or applying to universities.
The University will also boost its ties with career teachers of secondary schools and provide regular updates on latest developments at the University. The Student Ambassador Scheme launched in previous years has succeeded in familiarizing secondary schools with CUHK and the admission requirements of its different programmes. CUHK will strengthen its efforts in this area to render even more support to students.
The Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, Mrs Grace M.Y. Chow, said, “The first HKDSE examination was a new experience for students, parents and universities. But thanks to the hard work and support of all concerned, the admissions exercise went smoothly. We look forward to welcoming the candidates of the first HKDSE examination to the CUHK family, and seeing them take part in all the orientation activities and the inauguration ceremony on 10 September.”