[date]24 July 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Gordon Cheung as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and
Prof. Jimmy Yu as Head of United College 
[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has approved the appointment of Prof. Gordon W.H. Cheung, Professor in the Department of Management, as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for three years from 1 August 2012. The University has also appointed Prof. Jimmy C.M. Yu, Professor in the Department of Chemistry, as Head of United College for a period of four years from 1 August 2012, succeeding Prof. Fung Kwok-pui who served as College Head for 10 years. The University Council is deeply grateful to Professor Fung for his dedicated service and significant contributions to the College. 
Prof. Gordon Cheung Appointed Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
Prof. Gordon Cheung is Professor in the Department of Management at CUHK. His expertise lies in research methods and structural equation modeling. He obtained his BBA from CUHK and his PhD in management from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Professor Cheung is a dedicated researcher and an enthusiastic teacher who enjoys teaching and interacting with students. He founded the Global Business Studies (GLOBE) programme in 2005, a pioneering undergraduate business programme that provides students with tri-continental learning experiences and has served as the Programme Director since then. He has also been Director of the Office of Summer Programmes since 2006. In 2009, Professor Cheung was appointed Director of Academic Links, responsible for implementing internationalization strategies including steering student exchange and study abroad programmes, expanding the University’s collaboration in research and teaching with institutions from all over the world. In 2012, he was elected President of Asia-Pacific Association for International Education (APAIE), one of the most important associations in the world for promoting international higher education. 
Professor Cheung said, ‘In my new position as Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, I will continue to explore more international opportunities for our faculty and students, and strive to enhance the visibility and impact of CUHK in the world. I aspire to assert the leading position of CUHK in higher education in the Asia-Pacific region through my role as the President of APAIE.’ 
Prof. Jimmy Yu Appointed New Head of United College 
A world-renowned materials chemist, Professor Yu is currently Professor in the Department of Chemistry and Professor (by courtesy) in the Department of Electronic Engineering at CUHK. He received his BS from St. Martin’s College and his PhD from the University of Idaho in the US. He taught for 11 years in the US before joining CUHK in 1995. Professor Yu is a highly-cited scientist in the field of photocatalysis, holding six patents for the fabrication and application of photocatalytic nanomaterials. Air and water treatment systems based on his inventions have been made commercially available. He received the State Natural Science Award in 2005, and was appointed Chang Jiang Scholar Chair Professor by the Ministry of Education in 2009. Currently the Associate Head and Dean of General Education of United College, Professor Yu has served the College for many years. He has been a member of the College Board of Trustees since 2008 and chairman of Environment Committee since 2001. Professor Yu is also the founding warden of International House where he enjoys interacting with students from every corner of the world. 
Professor Yu considers it a privilege to serve United College. He said, ‘Thanks to the vision of my predecessors, the College has laid a healthy foundation to provide excellent support and facilities to students and staff. I am honored to play a leadership role in this close-knit community. Working together as a team, we will reach new heights.’