[date]1 May 2012[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Eleventh Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold its Eleventh Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony on 14 May on campus. Six distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK will be conferred honorary fellowships in recognition of their contributions to the University and the community. They are:
Prof. Chang Shu-ting
Prof. Chang Shu-ting, a world renowned expert in mycology, has devoted himself to scientific research and promoting mushroom biology all his life. He has been referred to as a 'Mushroom Missionary' and is currently the Director of the Hong Kong Microbiological Resources Centre sponsored by the UNESCO, and also the Director of Centre for International Services to Mushroom Biotechnology under the aegis of UNIDO. Professor Chang was the Founder-President of the International Mushroom Society for the Tropics and the Vice-President of World Society for Mushroom Biology and Mushroom Products. He was elected fellows of the World Academy of Arts and Science, the International Institute of Biotechnology, World Academy of Productivity Science, World Technology Network and other learned societies in recognition of his research achievements. Professor Chang has also demonstrated a distinguished record of public service. He served as a scientific adviser and an honorary professor for United Nations agencies, the Commonwealth Secretariat in London and over 30 research institutes and universities. Joining CUHK in 1960, Professor Chang has made significant contributions to the University by serving in different important positions, including Dean of Science, Chairman of the Department of Biology, Director of Student Affairs, and Director of the Institute of Science and Technology. He is currently Emeritus Professor of Biology.
Mr. Fung Siu-to Clement
Mr. Fung Siu-to Clement is currently Chairman of Asia Standard International Group Limited, and Chairman and Executive Director of Asia Orient Holdings Limited.  Mr. Fung has served in various public capacities in Hong Kong and the mainland, including consultant and visiting professor of Yunnan Normal University Business School, honorary principal of a number of 'HopeSchools' in mainland China, and member of various business bodies; he had also served as part-time member of Central Policy Unit, HKSAR Government. Currently a member of the University Council and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Shaw College at CUHK, Mr. Fung has offered plenty of his valuable advice in respect of student development and campus facilities. Throughout the years, Mr. Fung has generously supported various worthy causes including scholarships, sports and student amenities, benefiting numerous students of ShawCollege. Under his leadership, a community service project scheme was set up under the College to support students who render services to various underprivileged groups in the community.
Prof. Jin Sheng-hwa Serena 
Prof. Jin Sheng-hwa Serena is Emeritus Professor of Translation at CUHK, President Emeritus and Honorary Fellow of the Hong Kong Translation Society, Fellow of the Instituteof Linguists(London) and a Council Member of Translators' Association of China. Professor Jin has dedicated herself to a lifelong career of teaching and promoting translation. As the Founding Chief Editor of Journal of Translation Studies, she is a prolific writer and translator who has published over 20 books and more than 100 theses and articles.  She had served as a member of the Bilingual Laws Advisory Committee, making important contribution to bilingual legislation in Hong Kong.  She was awarded the Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1997 for her significant contributions. Joining CUHK in 1965, Professor Jin played a pivotal role in building and shaping the Department of Translation when she was the Department Chairman, leading its development from a minor programme to a major one. She has also devoted herself to many important administrative positions including member of the University Council and Sub-Dean of the Faculty of Arts.  Prof Jin also helped launch the Global Youth Chinese Literary Award for the New Century and led the successful organization of the Award programme for three installments. Besides, she has served as public orator for University congregations for installation of Vice-Chancellors and conferment of Honorary Degrees and Honorary Fellowships since 1996. Currently Honorary Fellow of New Asia College, Professor Jin has contributed tremendously towards the College's cultural and academic activities, campus life and long-term strategic development.
Prof. Lee Hon-ching
Prof. Lee Hon-ching is a noted artist based in the United States who specializes in printmaking and sculpture. Professor Lee is unstintingly committed to artistic creation, teaching and the advancement of art in the community. He has taught sculpture and printmaking at the college level for more than twenty years, participated in many international art exhibitions and symposia, organized a number of art conferences in the US and Hong Kong, and served as juror for local and international art competitions. Currently the Art Advisor of Chung Chi College and United College of CUHK, Professor Lee has made substantial contributions to the two Colleges in art enrichment through organizing exhibitions and lectures to foster art and culture appreciation on campus. He has also generously supported many scholarships, as well as the development and research projects of the Institute of Chinese Medicine, the Hong Kong Literature Research Centre of the Department of Chinese Language and Literature, the School of Life Sciences and the Art Museum.
Dr. Lo Tak-shing Peter
Currently Chairman of the K. S. Lo Foundation, Dr. Lo Tak-shing Peter obtained his doctorate degree in medical physics from the University of London. The K. S. Lo Foundation has been committed to promoting education, medical services, elderly care, social welfare and art for the benefit of the public. Dr. Lo's family and the Foundation have been unwavering benefactors of CUHK since the 1970s, supporting the establishment of the Lo Kwee-Seong Research Laboratory of Infectious Diseases and the K. S. Lo Foundation Scholarship Scheme, and various medical research initiatives. In 2010, the Foundation further donated a magnanimous sum to support the University's development and its research in biomedical sciences, including research on soybean and other staple foods. The Lo Kwee-Seong Integrated Biomedical Sciences Building named after the late Dr. K. S. Lo is equipped with state-of-the-art biomedical equipment to facilitate interdisciplinary research all under one roof.
Dr. Yeung Ming-biu
Dr. Yeung Ming-biu is Chairman and Executive Director of Oriental Watch Holdings Limited, and a Co-founder of the Group. He has sixty years of watch industry experience and is an eminent leader in the industry. Elected as one of the recipients of the World Outstanding Chinese Award in 2010, Dr. Yeung serves a number of important positions in various public services, such as the Permanent Honorary Director of The Federation of Hong Kong Watch Trades and Industries Limited and the Founding Honorary Chairman of The Professional Validation Centre of Hong Kong Business Sector. Despite his success, Dr. Yeung never forgets his roots and has made generous donations to support the construction of roads, bridges, schools and hospitals in his hometown Heshan. He also cares about the welfare of the underprivileged in Hong Kong by making generous donations to many charitable and fund-raising activities under the name of Oriental Watch Holdings Limited. As a long-time and staunch benefactor of CUHK, Dr. Yeung has supported a number of CUHK's scholarships, sports development of the Physical Education Unit, and a number of sports activities and facilities. He also offered much appreciated support to a number of student activities including the Global Internship Programme.