[date]31 May 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents 2011 Long Service Awards to 56 Members of Staff
Three Awardees Share Unforgettable Experience at CUHK 
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2011 Long Service Awards to 56 staff members who have been with the University for 25 and 35 years. Forty-eight received the award for having worked at CUHK for 25 years and eight, for 35 years. At the awards ceremony, at which Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung officiated, recipients had pictures taken with family, friends and colleagues. 
Prof. Fok Tai-fai 
Prof. Fok Tai-fai, currently Professor of Paediatrics and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, joined the Department of Paediatrics of CUHK in 1984 when the Faculty of Medicine had been established for only three years. Professor Fok has grown with the Faculty and witnessed its many important milestones, including the establishment of The Nethersole School of Nursing and the School of Pharmacy. Medicine, nursing and pharmacy are three of the major pillars of the medical system and public health. Before he took up the Deanship in 2004, Professor Fok had served as Sub-Dean and Associate Dean of the Faculty. With effect from January next year, he will serve as one of the University's Pro-Vice-Chancellors and take up various new challenges. 
An internationally renowned neonatologist with outstanding research results, Professor Fok is also good at communication and attentive to patients' needs. He believes that listening and understanding patients' needs are the keys to building up mutual trust, and therefore he particularly emphasizes communication skills training and the 'patient-oriented’'concept in his teaching. Professor Fok values communication and interaction with students. He always asks questions during classes to ensure that the students are indeed learning. Well liked by his students, Professor Fok has won various teaching awards, including the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award, Master Teaching Award of the Faculty of Medicine, and the Most Outstanding Teacher Award of the Faculty five times.
As a doctor, Professor Fok sets a good example with his healthy way of living. He follows the 'three-low' principles (low sodium, low sugar, low fat) and insists on going jogging every day. 
Prof. Fung Kwok-pui 
Prof. Fung Kwok-pui is currently Head of United College (UC), Professor of Biochemistry, and Director of the Institute of Chinese Medicine. He studied in UC during the late sixties and was among the first students accommodated in the Adam Schall Residence. Professor Fung obtained his bachelor and master degrees in CUHK, and his PhD degree from the University of Hong Kong. He joined CUHK in 1978. He served as the Dean of Students and the Chairman of Department of Biochemistry before assuming the position of College Head in 2002. Having a close relationship with United College most of his life, Professor Fung is proud of the development of the College. The Department of Social Work, Department of Government and Public Administration, Department of Electronic Engineering and Department of Biochemistry were all founded at UC: they have had profound impact on the University and society, and reflected the College's spirit of innovation. The College also keeps the balance between non-curricular education and college life, which together support students' intellectual growth and encourage their concern for social issues, in the spirit of the College motto.  
Professor Fung has been Head of UC for ten years and will step down this August. During his tenure, he set up a committee similar to a cabinet to form an effective administration team for the advancement of the College. He also put in a lot of effort to promote links with alumni and to enhance their allegiance to the College, effectively promoting alumni interactions and networking. He is always at the forefront of fund-raising efforts for the College. As Head of the College, he always gives first priority to students' interests, and he always seeks to interact with students in order to understand their difficulties and needs. Professor Fung often joins students' activities and his cheerful smile always leaves a deep impression on many. He is much loved by his staff and students and he always encourages his students to call him 'brother', instead of the more formal form of address for the College Head. 
While Professor Fung is busy with his administrative duties, he never allows this to be at the expense of his teaching and research work. He has been working hard over the years in researching on the biochemical pathology of cancer and on the elicitation of drugs to combat cancer from Chinese medicine. He also strives to promote the modernization of Chinese medicine. 
Ms. Li Yuen-fun Fanny 
Ms. Fanny Li joined CUHK in 1976 and is currently a Management Assistant at Sir Run Run Shaw Hall (SRRSH). Prior to joining SRRSH, she worked as a clerk in an administrative unit of the University. Upon the inauguration of SRRSH in 1981, Ms. Li immediately applied for job transfer and has been working in SRRSH until now. SRRSH is a multi-purpose cultural centre of the University which is equipped to the standard of a professional theatre. It provides venue and services for large-scale functions such as ceremonies, lectures, assemblies, examinations, concerts, dramas and exhibitions. Over the years, it has supported various culture and arts programmes aimed at enhancing cultural life on campus, and fostering the tradition in arts appreciation and participation amongst staff and students of the University.
Ms. Li is now mainly responsible for administrative duties at the SRRSH and provides support to the backstage and various production activities. Despite having worked for 30 years in the same unit, her passion towards her work has not subsided as she is also a huge fan of the performing arts. Recalling the early days when SRRSH was established, the then manager Mr. Hardy Tsoi arranged to stage various activities such as movie shows, concerts and dramas to test the stage and house effects. Ms. Li even had the opportunity to participate as a performer in the first play staged in SRRSH. Over the years, she has taken part in coordinating various activities held in SRRSH, sometimes working round the clock. These included the 2-to-2 Arts Rally, a large-scale variety show, the CU Fringe Day with the Hong Kong Fringe Club, and The Chinese University Arts Festival with the Student Union of CUHK. She also witnessed the establishment of 'The Chinese University Film Association'. Through the Artist-in-Residence Scheme, she gained a deeper understanding of Chinese opera after attending the workshop hosted by the veteran performer Mr. Leung Hon-wai; and she also got the chance to meet renowned artistes Anita Mui, Danny Chan and Frances Yip, as well as Mr. Gao Xingjian, Nobel Laureate in Literature, on various occasions.
Ms. Li always watched movies and Chinese operas with her mother when she was young and has developed an interest in culture and arts since then. Her mother's passion in Chinese opera has influenced her siblings too, and arts, movies and dance are always the topics of discussion among her family members who admire Ms. Li's job very much.
About Long Service Award
The 25-year Long Service Award, introduced in 1988, consists of a certificate and a gold lapel pin and has been given to 851 staff members. The 35-year Long Service Award, inaugurated in 2008, has been given to 78 staff members including eight this year. Each recipient will receive a certificate and a souvenir.