[date]1 June 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Chorus Presents: The Glamorous Voice – The Music of Eric Whitacre
An Encounter With Sounds of Nature and Heavens
Tickets Now Available
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus (CU Chorus) will perform an array of Eric Whitacre’s dazzling choral works in the concert The Glamorous Voice – The Music of Eric Whitacre, to be held at 8pm, June 6, 2012 (Wednesday) at the Jockey Club Amphitheatre, Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts (HKAPA). Under the baton of American choral conductor Paul Hondorp, the chorus will present music of celestial beauty and sounds of nature written by one of the most distinctive composers of modern choral music. New works by Hong Kong and Taiwan composers and a selection of American folk songs will also be featured. For ticket reservation, please call 3128-8288 (HK Ticketing) or visit http://www.hkticketing.com. 
Eric Whitacre is one of the most innovative and important composers of the generation. His choral output has gained worldwide adoration. He is acknowledged by multiple composition awards from the Barlow International Composition Competition and American Choral Directors Association (ACDA). His album Light &amp; Gold won the Best Choral Performance of the 2012 Grammy Award. Mr. Whitacre has collaborated with many renowned artistic groups, including Chanticleer, Rundfunkchor Berlin and London Symphony Orchestra. His recent multimedia project 'Virtual Choir', collaborated with global singers through the Internet, has been enthusiastically received.  
Paul Hondorp is Director of Choral Activities and Associate Professor of Music at Western Kentucky University. He received a Doctor of Musical Arts in Choral Conducting from Michigan State University. Dr. Hondorp has served as an adjudicator, clinician and guest conductor for festivals of the ACDA and the Music Educators National Conference. Recent engagements include guest clinicianships with the Singapore Choral Resource Centre and the Taipei International Choral Festival.
In this concert, CU Chorus will present a number of Mr. Whitacre's works of different styles, showcasing the variety of his signature glamorous harmonies, including the ethereal Sleep, the delightful Five Hebrew Love Songs and the playful Animal Crackers. The concert will also feature a range of American folk songs arranged for choir, such as Shenandoah and Nelly Bly, recreating the atmosphere of the American countryside. 
Continuing the tradition of promoting choral compositions, Music Director Leon Chu will conduct CU Chorus to premiere the new work Frozen Tears I written by composer Tang Lok-yin, one of the most talented composers in Hong Kong. The Chorus will also perform Taiwanese musical-theatre composer Jan Tienhao's work 'Wind, Snow, Love, Star' Suite, which will be a Hong Kong première. 
For programme enquiries and interview requests, please call 6030 5684 (Mr. Roger Fong) or email to rogerfong@cuchorus.org.hk. For more details, please visit its website: http://www.cuchorus.org.hk.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus Music Director and Conductor: Leon Chu
After nearly 40 years' pursuit of excellence, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus (CU Chorus) has become one of the best local university choirs. Rooted in Hong Kong with a global view, CU Chorus has performed not only at the local stage, but also in various cities in southern China and southeast Asia. With its high quality performances and innovative programmes, CU Chorus is dedicated to promoting and sharing the choral art with the public. 