[date]17 September 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Professor Du Ruxu Awarded Fellowship by the Society of Manufacturing Engineers
[/title]
Professor Du Ruxu of the Faculty of Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was elected a Fellow of the Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME) in 2012 for his significant accomplishments in the field of manufacturing engineering.  Six industry leaders from around the world receive the award this year and Professor Du is the only award recipient in Hong Kong.  
The SME College of Fellows was created to honour individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the social, technological and educational aspects of the manufacturing profession. This honour can only be earned through 20 or more years of dedication and service to manufacturing engineering. Professor Du says, 'I am deeply honoured to be named a fellow of SME. This is a recognition of the effort I have made over the years and I am grateful for all the ongoing support given by my research team, working partners and family members.' 
Professor Du is an expert in manufacturing engineering and precision engineering. He has devoted himself to promoting mechanical manufacturing technology over the years. Precision engineering is a discipline that develops new manufacturing methods to raise the level of machining accuracy from millimeter, micrometer, sub-micrometer to nanometer, thereby greatly enhancing quality of mechanical manufacturing equipment. Professor Du was appointed Director of the Institute of Precision Engineering of CUHK in 2006 and took the lead to invent and develop new technologies in precision engineering and their applications in various areas, such as biomedical sciences, optics, energy and environment. He has also developed many innovative manufacturing robotic devices to monitor and diagnose manufacturing processes. Under the support of the government, CUHK and the industry, Professor Du took up the research task 'mechanical movement design' for Hong Kong with the Institute of Precision Engineering as the platform. 
Professor Du is currently a professor in the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering and Director of the Institute of Precision Engineering at CUHK. He is also Director of Guangzhou Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Advanced Technology. Professor Du received his doctorate degree from the University of Michiganin 1989 and embarked on his teaching career at the University of Windsor and the University of Miami. He joined CUHK in 2001 and assisted in structuring engineering laboratories for the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering. He has published over 300 technical papers in various academic journals and international conferences, demonstrating marked influence in both academia and industry. He was also named a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 2009 for his outstanding research achievements.