[date]26 July 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Joins Hands with IBM to Organize “EX.I.T.E Camp” to Excite Young Girls’ Interest in Engineering and Nurture Future Talents
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and IBM China/Hong Kong Limited (NYSE: IBM) today concluded the Exploring Interest in Technology and Engineering (EX.I.T.E) Camp, which was successfully held from 22 July to 26 July 2012 for thirty-six Form 3-to-be girls from secondary schools in Hong Kong, Macau and Guangzhou. 
Co-organized by CUHK Engineering and IBM, EX.I.T.E. Camp aims to kindle the interest of young girls in the fields of technology and engineering, and nurture female talents for the future. Thirty-six girls from Guangzhou No 47 Secondary School, Sacred Heart Canossian College Hong Kong and Sacred Heart Canossian College Macau– twelve from each school – participated in a series of specially designed innovative workshop, games, matches and lectures to acquire new knowledge of information technology and engineering, and to study the impact of science and technology on improving people's living.  
"Technology and engineering are important foundations for our lives in today's globalized and knowledge-based economy, and are key enablers of innovations that make a difference and propel social and economic advancement," said Tony Tai, General Manager, IBM China/Hong Kong Limited. 
"Through collaborating with CUHK Engineering Faculty in holding the seventh EX.I.T.E. Camp in Hong Kong, we aim to inspire young girls' interest in these traditionally male-dominated subjects, and encourage exchanges and friendships among the girls from these three rapidly integrating cities in the Pan Pearl River Delta Region." 
During the five-day interesting and inspiring Camp, participants got a preview of upcoming technology innovations in the next five years, visited various engineering laboratories at CUHK, and were inspired by both CUHK female engineering professor and IBM women executives and engineers as role models in their sharing sessions. They also took part in interactive and hands-on workshops on applying technology and engineering concepts to improve daily lives, such as surgery simulation and programming Lego robotics for a green city challenge. 
As social media has a profound impact on society, a "Smart Social Business" theme was added to the Camp. Prior to and throughout the five-day Camp, the participating girls had been collaborating and networked to learn on an EX.I.T.E. Camp community hosted on IBM Connections. An anti-cyberbullying talk and mentoring session were held to teach the girls proper etiquette on social networks. 
"CUHK Faculty of Engineering hopes to nurture more young female engineering talents.  The current gender ratio of our Faculty is not in even balance, with less than 30% of engineering students being female only.  Young girls from Hong Kong, Macau and Guangzhou were exclusively invited to the Camp, offering them a good learning experience and exposure to the dynamic world of technology and engineering. We hope these young girls will develop their careers in the engineering profession and contribute to society in future," said Prof. Wong Kam Fai, Associate Dean (External Affairs), Faculty of Engineering, CUHK.
About EX.I.T.E Camp
EX.I.T.E Camp, established by IBM in 1999, aims to arouse young girls' interest in taking science and mathematics, and encourage them to pursue future career in technology and engineering field.  Over ten thousand participants have joined the camp around the globe so far, with 85% of participants indicating that they would consider engineering and science subjects for their further studies.
About the CUHK Faculty of Engineering
The Faculty of Engineering is committed to the education of future leaders in engineering, the pursuit of knowledge at the frontier of modern technology, and the application of technology to meet societal and human needs.  Founded in 1991, the Faculty has strongly developed itself with over 100 faculty members in its five departments including Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Department of Electronic Engineering, Department of Information Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, and Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management.  Its professorial contingent consists of, among others, the first Chinese scholar to win the prestigious Turing Award, Academicians of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and IEEE Fellows (the highest number among all institutions in Hong Kong).