[date]19 April 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Second Academia Sinica Academicians Visit Programme cum Lecture Series 
Three Specialists to Share Insights in Life Sciences Development
Now Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the Second Academia Sinica (AS) Academicians Visit Programme from 24-27 April. Three distinguished academicians including Prof. Andrew H. J. Wang, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of Biology Chemistry, AS; Prof. Wang Kuan, Director of Institute of Chemistry and Nanomedicine Program, AS; and Prof. Yao Meng-Chao, Distinguished Research Fellow and Director, Institute of Molecular Biology, AS, will visit CUHK for academic exchange. They will also deliver public lectures and meet with CUHK representatives to discuss future collaboration plans. 
The three academicians will visit the School of Life Sciences, the Departments of Chemistry and Physics, as well as the School of Biomedical Sciences at CUHK. They will give lectures at the 'Lecture Series by Academicians' to be held on 25 April to share their experiences and expertise in their respective fields of research. The lectures will be conducted in English. Members of the public are welcome to attend the lectures and register online at www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2012/. 
Prof. Andrew H. J. Wang is a Distinguished Research Fellow of the Institute of Biological Chemistry of AS. Professor Wang graduated from Taiwan University with a Bachelor of Science degree and obtained his Ph.D in Chemistry from the University of Illinois-Urbana. He is a renowned scientist in structural proteomics, anticancer drugs, x-ray crystallography, NMR and molecular design. In his lecture entitled 'Applications of structural biology in drug discovery and biotechnology', he will discuss the several enzymes and protein regulators that are useful for antibiotics development. 
Prof. Wang Kuan is the Director of Institute of Chemistry and Nanomedicine Program of AS. Professor Wang received his Ph.D degree in molecular biochemistry and biophysics from Yale University. He has made significant contributions to the study of muscle biology and physiology, muscle disease, traction systems, structural biology, muscle proteinomics and nanotechnology. Professor Wang will deliver a lecture on 'Intrinsically disordered proteins: interplay of force, form and function' to share his expertise in structural biology.  
Prof. Yao Meng-Chao is a Distinguished Research Fellow and Director of the Institute of Molecular Biology of AS. Professor Yao graduated from Taiwan University with a Bachelor degree in Zoology and later pursued a Ph.D in biology at the University of Rochester in the U.S. His major research interests include chromosome structure and function; nucleolus function; genome instability; and RNA Interference. Professor Yao will give a lecture entitled 'Guarding the genome with RNA-directed DNA rearrangements in Tetrahymena' to share his knowledge in genome stability.
Lecture Series by Academia Sinica Academicians 
Date: Wednesday, 25 April 2012Language: English 

Time 
Speaker
Lecture Topic
Venue
 

2:30-3:30 pm
Prof. Wang Kuan, Director of Institute of Chemistry and Nanomedicine Programme, Academia Sinica
 
Intrinsically disordered proteins: interplay of force, form and function
LT2, 7/F, Mong Man Wai Building, CUHK

2:30-3:30 pm
Prof. Yao Meng-Chao, Distinguished Research Fellow and Director, Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica
 
Guarding the Genome with RNA-directed DNA rearrangements in Tetrahymena
L4, Science Centre, CUHK

3:40-4:40 pm
Prof. Andrew H. J. Wang, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of Biology Chemistry, Academia Sinica
 
Applications of structural biology in drug discovery and biotechnology
 
L4, Science Centre, CUHK

 