[date]11 May 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Green Pioneer Series
Academia's First Large-Scale Green Office Programme Launched to Play an Exemplary Role in Community
University Members Join Hands to Build Sustainable Campus
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) launched today (11 May) its 'Green Office Programme' (GO!) which aims to gather the efforts of all campus members to incorporate green practices at workplaces. Sixty participating units pledged to implement the action items stated in the 'GO! Checklist' which focuses on four major areas, namely, energy conservation, waste reduction, green purchasing, as well as enhancing awareness and engagement. The first of its kind in the academia, the university-wide large-scale green office programme hopes to bring about behavioural changes among staff and students and nurture a green culture on campus in the long run. It is also intended as an example for both academia and the community at large, and one that can inspire other organizations, educational and otherwise, to implement green practices in the workplace, thereby contributing to the sustainable future of the earth. 
The simple yet solemn launch ceremony followed the green principles of staying low-carbon and paperless by using computer projection instead of traditional backdrops. Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph Sung led the participating units to sign the electronic 'GO! Charter' pledging to incorporate green practices in daily work. He said, 'The University has devoted much effort and resources in developing green policies and green infrastructure, and the results have been fruitful and well recognized by various public awards. We have recently set a five-year target of sustainable development and we think it's time to put more effort in bringing about behavioural changes and green culture on campus, thus giving birth to the “GO!” Programme. Drawing reference from the best practices of overseas universities and taking into account the local situation, the Programme aims to play an exemplary role to promote the green office concept among tertiary institutions, secondary schools and primary schools. I hope “GO!” will bring its vision and message to all campus members, so that they will join hands to protect the environment.' Professor Sung then led all participants to read aloud the slogan 'You can make a difference!', motivating them to take simple actions to build a sustainable campus. 
Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, said, 'Since the 1990s, CUHK has regarded environmental protection as a key element in university development and management. Through the “GO!” Programme, the University aims to encourage staff and students to make changes in personal behaviour and campus culture, and to spread the message to their families and the community, fulfilling the education mission and social responsibility of the University.'
Staff members participating in the 'GO!' Programme are expected to complete as many action items as possible as spelt out in the 'GO! Checklist' (http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpso/go!/index.htmlchecklist) and monitor their own progress. Any participating offices that have fulfilled at least half of the action items at the end of the year will receive a certificate from the Vice-Chancellor and will be acknowledged in university publications, as recognition for their efforts in fulfilling their social responsibility. They will also be invited to an annual 'Bring Your Own Cup' party hosted by the Vice-Chancellor to share experiences and best practices in greening their offices.  
The Programme's website contains a section 'Resources for GO!' (www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpso/go!/resources.html), providing useful information to support and facilitate participating offices in fulfilling their commitments, such as advice for energy-saving opportunities; tips on waste management (reduction, reuse, recycling, recovery) and waste separation; green purchasing policy and guidelines; as well as other useful posters, tips, guides and newsletters. This online resource will also be of great reference value to the general public and various organizations in the community. 
Sixty units have participated voluntarily in Phase I of the Programme, including the whole university management team, all nine colleges, most of the administrative and service units, the Student Union and four student bodies, involving over 2,000 staff and students. Every simple step taken by each participating member will make a great difference. Phase II will be expanded to academic and research units and the ultimate goal is to engage all offices at the University. 
CUHK is committed to sustainable practices and the enhancement of campus environmental quality, and has set various targets for the next five years: to reduce energy consumption (per capita) by 8% and reduce greenhouse gas emissions (per capita) by 10%; reduce municipal waste volume (per capita) by 12%; reduce water usage (per capita) by 15%; to assign at least one staff in every office to serve as Energy Warden to support the implementation of energy saving plans; to assist all offices to conduct self-evaluation of carbon emission no later than 2015; to reduce the use of paper by 50%; to make food waste management compulsory in the tendering and renewal of contracts for all canteen caterers on campus; to replace all official vehicles with more environmental-friendly models when the vehicles reach the end of their life span. In the long run, the University expects to achieve the target as set out in the Campus Master Plan to cut the greenhouse gas emissions (per capita) by 20% by 2025 (from the campus base figures of 2005). 
CUHK Green Pioneer Series
CUHK is privileged to have a green campus that is among the most beautiful inAsia.  In 2008 and 2009, the University was recognized at the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence by reaping the silver award and gold award respectively under the category of Public Organizations and Utilities, setting a model of sustainability in the academic sector.  
CUHK will build on its outstanding achievements in carbon reduction, water saving, paper saving, ecosystem conservation, and environmental education.  It will launch more innovative projects and share its latest green works through the Green Pioneer Series, bringing its experiences off-campus and share them with the public to promote green living.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=70&amp;s=