[date]21 September 2012[/date]
[title]Inauguration of Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee 
Scholarship Endowment Fund
[/title]
The inauguration ceremony of the Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund was held at Cho Yiu Hall yesterday (20 September). Officiating at the ceremony were Mrs. Helen Lee, wife of Dr. the Honourable Quo Wei Lee; Mr. Thomas C.B. Liang, chief executive of the Wei Lun Foundation; Professor Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; and Professor Jack C.Y. Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK. On behalf of the Wei Lun Foundation, Mrs. Helen Lee presented a cheque of HK$30 million to the University for the establishment of the Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund. The Lee family, guests of the foundation and members of the University were in attendance. 
Over the years, the University has provided a wide range of scholarships and bursaries which enable students to complete their education and broaden their horizons through participation in exchange programmes during their studies at CUHK. In celebration of its Golden Jubilee in 2013, the University would like to solicit further support to scholarships to meet the increasing demand of our students. The University is very grateful for the continued support from Dr. the Honourable Quo Wei Lee, Mrs. Helen Lee and the Wei Lun Foundation for setting up this scholarship endowment fund which will generate investment returns to support scholarships for mainland students, medical and law students, as well as exchange scholarships in perpetuity. With the matched grant to be expected from the sixth round of the Matching Grant Scheme of the HKSAR Government, more students will benefit from the endowment fund. The scholarship will be disbursed in the year 2013-14. 
In his welcoming address, Professor Joseph Sung expressed his deepest gratitude to Dr. and Mrs Lee, and the Wei Lun Foundation for their unwavering support. Dr. Lee has been a staunch supporter of the University since its inception, and has served as the chairman of the Council for many years.  This scholarship endowment fund will benefit generations of CUHK students to come. 
Having watched a short video 'Love CUHK' shown at the ceremony, Mr. Thomas Liang said, 'Dr. Lee has a lifelong devotion to CUHK. He has made tremendous contributions to the establishment and development of the University. Over the years, he has given his staunch support to the Faculties of Business Administration, Law and Medicine, also to alumni activities and student development.'  Mr. Liang hoped that with the establishment of the Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund, more CUHK students will benefit from the scholarship and be able to pursue and realize their dreams. 
Professor Jack C.Y. Cheng introduced the Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund at the ceremony, 'The four-year undergraduate curriculum has been in place this September, the increase in student intake means a greater demand for scholarships. The Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund is a timely gift to the University. All scholarship recipients will be named Lee Quo Wei Golden Jubilee Scholars. The University will host regular gatherings for the scholars to exchange ideas with each other and meet with their benefactor in the future.' 
Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund 
The endowment fund will generate investment returns to support various scholarships, which will be disbursed in the academic year 2013-14. Every year, the fund will support one full scholarship to cover the tuition and living expenses of one academically outstanding mainland student from underdeveloped provinces and municipalities. In addition, in accordance with the wish of the Wei Lun Foundation, the fund will disburse HK$300,000 each to the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Medicine every year to set up scholarships benefitting their students. The residual payout will be used to support our full-time undergraduate students with financial need (including local, mainland and overseas students) to take part in exchange programmes during term time and in the summer. An advisory committee for the fund will be established to set direction, give advice on selection criteria, and monitor the operations of the fund.