[date]12 July 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Business School Joins Hands with School of Journalism and Communication to Pioneer the First Business Administration and Journalism and Communication Double Degree Options in Hong Kong to Foster Cross-sector Talents in Communications and Business[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announced today (12 July 2012) Hong Kong’s first Business Administration (BBA) and Journalism and Communication (JLM) double degree options jointly offered by CUHK Business School and School of Journalism and Communication. Starting from the new school year (2012-2013), new students enrolling in the 4-year Integrated BBA Programme or Journalism and Communication Programme will have the option to apply for the double degree options after they have finished the first year of study, allowing them to graduate with double degrees in five years (4 years for the first degree and additional 1 year for the BBA or Journalism and Communication Programme).
According to Prof. Dennis Fan, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Studies) of CUHK Business School, “Brand, one of the most important assets for corporations in the business world, is the overall impression made by enterprises on society, using multiple communication channels including the media. In order to understand the environment and requirements of the media, executives in many enterprises are now enrolling in media training programmes, usually arranged by the enterprises. However, as the communication channels are changing rapidly in an era of information explosion, students interested to participate in the business community should start early to acquire knowledge and skills in communication, public relations (PR), as well as brand management. By doing so, they will be able to assist enterprises to manage their brand and to make the right decisions in the face of crisis. Students with cross-sector knowledge, mastering both communication and business disciplines will be welcomed by the market.”
"The position of Hong Kong as an international financial hub and the Asia headquarters of many international media organizations raises the importance and significance of financial news for local and international media,” said Prof. Francis L.F. Lee, Associate Professor, School of Journalism and Communication, CUHK, “The need for a talented workforce with the right skills in these fields is rising. An increasing no. of our graduates are getting jobs as executives in the economic and finance sectors and working in the areas of financial reporting or financial PR. Hong Kong urgently needs graduates who have financial and management skills, as well as expertise in professional media communications. The new joint degree programme will be the first choice for students interested in business and journalism.”
"Upon graduation, I joined the well-known fast moving consumer goods manufacturer Procter &amp; Gamble for a marketing planning post, which is the traditional favourite for business students,” said Ms. Liza Wang, a 2004 BBA graduate of CUHK Business School, and currently Account Director of Guru Online, an online marketing company. “Three years later I joined the digital and social media industry when it started to boom inHong Kong. Social media has changed the traditional definition of media, as well as our lifestyle, the way we communicate with friends, network among business counterparts, and enterprises brand building. Thus, I believe the combination of BBA and Journalism is a perfect mix that responds to the current trends.”
"Had the programme been available during my time at CUHK, I may have been among its first intakes. Upon graduation from CUHK’s School of Journalism and Communication, I worked in South China Morning Post for 8 years before I was headhunted to set up the Corporate Communications Department at Hang Seng Bank, where I am working currently. I enhanced my career prospects by studying for two diplomas – one in marketing and the other in finance – in the university’s Business School. There is a shortage for people with competencies in both communications and business, therefore I believe this double-degree programme will provide the new generation with more choices for career development by paving the path for the financial news and corporate communications professionals,” said Walter Cheung, Head of Communications and Corporate Responsibility, Hang Seng Bank.
This joint degree programme is available for students enrolling in the Integrated BBA Programme or Journalism and Communication Programme in the school year 2012-2013. This 5-year joint degree programme offers 2 different study paths depending on the major taken by the students:
Major in Journalism courses and take some of the BBA courses in the first 4 years, and majoring 8 BBA courses for 24 units on a self-financing basis in the 5th year, or
Major in BBA courses and take some of the Journalism courses in the first 4 years, and majoring 11 Journalism courses for 33 units on a self-financing basis in the 5th year.
The tuition fee in the 5th year for local students is HK$100,000.
To provide students with chance of fieldwork practice before graduation, students taking the joint degree programme can also apply for internship opportunities offered by both Business School and School of Journalism and Communication. Graduates of the joint degree programme will have opportunities to develop careers in various industries, including finance, marketing, corporate communications, advertising and PR, financial PR, journalism, creative media, supply chain management and logistics, as well as human resources.
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management – and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, Marketing. It wasHong Kong’s first business school offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the school offers 10 undergraduate programmes and 31 graduate programmes (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD).
In the Financial Times’ 2012 global MBA rankings, CUHK’s MBA programme is ranked no. 28. In the Financial Times’ 2011 global EMBA rankings, CUHK’s EMBA program is at no.14 and the number 1 independent EMBA programme in Asia Pacific. CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (21,000+) inHong Kong – many of whom are key business leaders. The faculty currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Prof. T.J. Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School.
About School of Journalism and Communication, CUHK
Established in 1965, the School of Journalism and Communication has the longest history of communication education and research inHong Kong. The School aims to educate students to become communication professionals with a global perspective who excel in practical skills and have analytical and innovative minds to generate high-quality communication content. The School also seeks to instill a strong sense of social consciousness and commitment to professional ethics, freedom of expression and social responsibility.
The School emphasizes a balance and integration between theory and practice. While the former is essential in a university education, practical experience prepares students for the professions of the three streams of study in our school, namely Journalism, Advertising and Public Relations, and Creative and New Media. The School's flexible and broad-based curriculum has enabled graduates to secure career opportunities in various working environments. Many of its alumni have assumed important positions in the journalism and communication industries. The faculty has been active in international communication, new media, popular culture and Chinese communication research. The School is currently recognized as a center of excellence in teaching and research on the international plane and serves as a key link between East and West.