[date]25 October 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK United College Distinguished Visiting Scholar Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong to Speak on Challenges in New Drug Development
Public Lecture Open for Registration
[/title]
United College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong, Academician of Academia Sinica, Taiwan, as Distinguished Visiting Scholar in 2012-13.  He will visit Hong Kong between 30 October and 2 November 2012 and deliver two public lectures on CUHK campus; one in English and one in Putonghua.  Members of the public are welcome to join. Please call 3943-7455 for seats reservation. 
Professor Chen is a world famous physician and scientist, recognized for his work on human genetic disorders.  He invented a drug to cure Pompe disease in 2006, which saved thousands of lives all over the world yearly.  Pompe is a rare heritable disease with high mortality rate, especially in new born babies. The development of this new drug has been adapted to a Hollywood movie entitled ‘Extraordinary Measures’. His translational research also leads to the development of cornstarch therapy for severe hypoglycemia in glycogen storage diseases. Professor Chen has identified the genetic basis of and developed DNA-based diagnosis for several major heritable diseases.  His latest pharmacogenomic studies of adverse drug reactions paved the way for personalized medicine by preventing drug toxicity with gene tests. 
Professor Chen received his medical degree from Taiwan University and a PhD from Columbia University. He is currently a distinguished research fellow of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taiwan; Professor of Pediatrics at Duke University Medical Center in USA; and Fellow of the World Academy of Sciences for the Advancement of Science in Developing Countries (formerly the Academy of Sciences for the Developing World). 
Details of the two public lectures are:

1.
Preventing Drug Toxicity with a Gene Test

 
Date and time:
Wednesday, 31 October 2012, 4:30pm

 
Venue:
Lecture Theatre 6, Lee Shau Kee Building, CUHK, Shatin

 
Language:
English

 
 

2.
Challenges of New Drug Development: From Laboratory to Clinic to Hollywood

 
Date and time:
Thursday, 1 November 2012, 4:30pm

 
Venue:
Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, CUHK, Shatin

 
Language:
Putonghua

For further information, please contact Mr. George Lam at 3943 7598 or Ms. Amy Yeung at 3943 7455 of the Dean of Students’ Office.
       