[date]28 January 2013[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Business School MBA ranked 27th globally by Financial Times, 2013
Among the top-ranked MBA programs in the world[/title]
The Financial Times released today their 2013 rankings of the global top 100 full-time MBA programs. The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) full-time MBA program is ranked twenty-seventh globally.
The ranking results demonstrate the ability of CUHK MBA program to ensure its graduates’ career progression and placement success, which are ranked no.16 and no. 41 in the world respectively and no.1 inHong Kong. These outstanding results for employment and career advancement of its global Full Time MBA graduates can be attributed to the Business School’s world class MBA curriculum and its personalized “Individual Career Counselling Program”.
Professor Tak-Jun Wong, Dean of the CUHK Business School, said: “Thanks to the tremendous support from our faculty, alumni and students, CUHK MBA is recognized as one of the leading MBAs in the world. In this Asian century, our uniquely prominent alumni network in Asia and beyond provide an unparalleled opportunity for students to build a strong regional and global business network. We are proud to be celebrating the University’s 50th anniversary this year with such great results.”
Professor Michael J. Ferguson, Associate Dean of CUHK Business School and Director of MBA Program, said: “CUHK MBA offers a coherent set of programs to develop the next generation of global business leaders for the Asian century. With both international and mainland China focus expertise, we provide the right MBA program for Chinese students seeking global perspective, and for international students who truly want to get to grips with business in China. What matters to us most is not only our place in the ranking, but how we compare with other top universities in the world. It reflects our efforts to continuously enhance the quality of our MBA program.”
“2012 was a tough year for MBA job seekers internationally. However, we are pleased to see some very encouraging outcomes delivered by CUHK MBA graduates. By September 2012, 95% of our graduates were employed globally and 91% experienced career or location change,” Mr. Lawrence Chan, Administrative Director of Marketing and Student Recruiting, MBA Program added.
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management – and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, and Marketing. It was Hong Kong’s first business school offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the school offers 10 undergraduate programs and 31 graduate programs (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD)
In the Financial Times’ 2012 global rankings, CUHK’s EMBA program is at no.17. CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (25,000+) inHong Kong – many of whom are key business leaders. The faculty currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Professor TJ Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School. 
Note on ranking criteria of measurement
Career progress: This is calculated according to changes in the level of seniority and the size of the company alumni are working in now versus before their MBA.
Placement success: Alumni who used the careers service at their business school were asked to rank its effectiveness in their job search.