[date]20 February 2013[/date]
[title]World-leading Expert on Psycholinguistics and Cognitive Neuroscience 
Prof. Ovid Tzeng Appointed as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2012/2013 of Chung Chi College of CUHK
[/title]
Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is very honoured to have invited Prof. Ovid J. L. Tzeng, Academician and Distinguished Fellow of Institute of Linguistics, Academia Sinica,Taiwan, to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2012/2013.  During his visit to Chung Chi College in February 2013, Professor Tzeng will be meeting members of the College community in a series of activities including the Annual Education Conference, College Life Luncheon Talk, College Assembly and Tolo Nocturne. 
The Annual Education Conference of Chung Chi College is the highlight among activities of Professor Tzeng's visit to Chung Chi College.  Details of the Conference are as follows:

Date :
23 February, 2013 (Saturday)

Time:
10:00 a.m.

Venue:
LT2, Yasumoto International Academic Park, Chung Chi College

Topic:
"The Culture and Science of Reading"

Guest Speakers:
Prof. Ovid J. L. Tzeng, Chung Chi College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2012/13Prof. Chow Po Chung, Associate Professor of the Department of Government and Public Administration, CUHK Mr. Lee Yee, Commentator and Columnist

Moderator:
Prof. Cheng Pui Wan, Associate Professor of the Department of Educational Psychology, CUHK

The conference will be conducted in Putonghua with simultaneous interpretation in English, and is also open to the public.  For more details on the event, please visit the website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/.  
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College, CUHK.  With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff members as well as students, the Visiting Fellows Programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong.  
In the past 30 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields such as Prof. C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the Mainland; Prof. Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University, and Prof. Pai Hsien-yung Kenneth, Professor Emeritus, Department of East Asian Languages &amp; Cultural Studies of the University of California, Santa Barbara, USA, were invited to visit the College for several weeks as the College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows.