[date]11 October 2012[/date]
[title]Planning of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen)
Approved by the State Ministry of Education
[/title]
The establishment of The Chinese University of Hong Kong(Shenzhen) is an initiative to help train future generations of university graduates who are international in outlook, learned in the disciplines they follow, upright in their character, and committed to serving the needs of society. It is an endeavour that will have a profound impact on the training of top talents and the educational reform in China, and will also contribute to the long-term prosperity of Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta (PRD) region. The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is delighted that this educational initiative is endorsed by the State Ministry of Education (MoE) which announces today its approval for the planning of CUHK (SZ). A ceremony was held today (11 October) at the proposed site of CUHK (SZ) in Longgang District, Shenzhen, in the presence of Wang Yang, Secretary, Guangdong Provincial Committee; Zhu Xiaodan, Vice Secretary of Guangdong Provincial Committee and Governor of Guangdong Provincial Government; Du Yubo, Vice-Minister, Ministry of Education; Wang Rong, Secretary, Shenzhen Municipal Committee; Xu Qin, Mayor of Shenzhen; Carrie Lam, Chief Secretary for Administration, Hong Kong SAR Government; Eddie Ng, Secretary for Education, Hong Kong SAR Government; Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the Council, CUHK; Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; and Mona Fong, Chairperson, The Sir Run Run Shaw Charitable Trust.
At the proposed CUHK (SZ), instruction will be bilingual (Chinese and English), and emphasis will be placed on general education and college education. In its initial plan, CUHK (SZ) will launch in phases programmes in science, engineering, economics, management and humanities, including various innovative and inter-disciplinary subjects. The Senate of CUHK will be responsible for the approval and monitoring of programmes offered by CUHK (SZ). 
CUHK (SZ) will be a non-profit-making higher education institution with the status of an independent legal entity. The governing body of CUHK (SZ) will be its Executive Board (理事會), to be chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK and to comprise eight members each nominated by CUHK and Shenzhen University. The Chairman will have a casting vote. The President of CUHK (SZ) will be responsible for the management, under the leadership of the Executive Board. The University will uphold academic freedom, foster an open academic environment and will be managed along modern and democratic principles. 
The set-up and operation of CUHK (SZ) will be financed independently, with no cross-subsidy from the Shatin campus. The major sources of operating funds are tuition fees, donations, subsidies from The Shenzhen Municipal Government and other subsidies for scientific research. The campus of CUHK (SZ) will be located in Longgang District on the outskirts of northeastern Shenzhen. The Shenzhen Municipal Government has allocated an area of around 100 hectares for campus development. 
CUHK formed a Task Force in October 2009 to explore the feasibility of establishing a campus in Shenzhen. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the Shenzhen Municipal Government in February 2010, and a Framework Agreement was signed in March 2011. In July 2011, a collaboration agreement was signed between CUHK and Shenzhen University. The University set up various committees in April this year to discuss and contribute ideas to academic, campus development, personnel and financial planning issues of CUHK (SZ). On many occasions the University has engaged its staff, students, alumni and academic faculties for consultation and exchange of information, to report on progress and to gather views. In future, CUHK will continue to refine the establishment plan and will sign a formal collaboration agreement with the Shenzhen Municipal Government and Shenzhen University. Upon approval of the University Council on the agreement, the University will work with Shenzhen University to move ahead in planning for the future operations of CUHK (SZ), including the curriculum, campus infrastructure, organizational structure, etc. With the support of the Council, the University will make further applications to MoE for the formal establishment of CUHK (SZ).