[date]8 November 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Music Department hosts Public ‘Guqin Week’ to Promote the Chinese Culture 
All are Welcome
[/title]
Guqin, a seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family, and Guqin music were recognized by UNESCO as China's intangible cultural heritage in 2003. To enhance young people's understanding of this instrument, the Chinese Music Archive (CMA) of Music Department at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Office of the Arts Administrator of CUHK will host 'Guqin Week 2012' from 13 to 19 November at CUHK. Through a series of talks and concerts, they aim to teach knowledge about guqin and to promote guqin music among CUHK staff and students, and the general public. 
Hong Kong's particular history and geography have made it a unique habitat for the guqin. Over the past century, this city has nurtured a guqin culture that is radically different from its mainland Chinese counterpart in culture, aesthetics and its manufacture. The CMA has made much effort to promote guqin culture in the past years. Through organizing activities, it has strengthened people's understanding of guqin art and facilitated the development of Chinese music teaching and research.
The activities of 'Guqin Week' include three talks  respectively entitled 'Several Questions on the Guqin Piece "Guangling San": From the Perspective of Guqin Study and Guqin Players' by Mr. Yao Gongbai, a guqin player from Shanghai and a representative, national-level inheritor of this cultural heritage; 'Guqin as a World Intangible Cultural Heritage: Implications and Challenges' by Mr. Tse Chun Yan, an adjunct assistant professor at CUHK Music Department; and 'Appreciation of Guqin as an Artefact' by Mr. Shum Hing Shun, Vice-Chairman of the Deyin Qin Society of Hong Kong. Two concerts and a music gathering are also included featuring Mr. Yao Gongbai and three CUHK alumni, Ms. Lau Chor Wah, Mr. Sou Si Tai and Mr. Tse Chun Yan from the Deyin Qin Society of Hong Kong. All are welcome to join these activities. Admission is free. Seating is limited and available on a first-come, first-served basis. 
For more information about Guqin Week 2012, see http://ihome.cuhk.edu.hk/~b128354/Guqin_Week_2012/ . 
Enquiry: Chinese Music Archive, Music Department of CUHK (Tel: 3943 6555; email: cma_info@cuhk.edu.hk )