[date]27 January 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Kicks off its 50th Anniversary Celebrations to Perpetuate Humanistic Spirit and Share Love and Care with the Community[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) turns 50 in 2013. To commemorate this significant anniversary, the University held the ‘CUHK 50th Anniversary Kick-off Ceremony  Walkathon’ and Carnival today (27 January), initiating an exciting assortment of programmes spanning the whole year. Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, Chairman of the Council; Mr. Leung Ying-wai Charles, Chairman, 50th Anniversary Celebration Organizing Committee; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President; Prof. Michael K.M. Hui, Chairman, 50th Anniversary Celebration Co-ordinating and Working Committee; Dr. Chan Chi Sun, Chairman of the Convocation; Ms. Yan Hau-yee Lina, President, The Federation of Alumni Associations; Mr. Peter Suen, Representative of Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation; Mr. Johnson Yeung, President, The Student Union; and Mr. Xu Bing, President, The Postgraduate Student Association; officiated at the ceremony and witnessed this historic moment together with about 3,000 guests, alumni, staff and students of the University.
Prof. Joseph Sung thanked all who are organizing and supporting the 50th anniversary celebrations, and said, 'The slogan of the anniversary celebrations is “Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future”, which means that we should respectfully review the achievements of the academics who have gone before us, and perpetuate the valuable traditions they have established. At the same time our vision should be focused on the future, as we plan the development of the University with due regard for the needs and requirements of the times. Fresh energy has to be injected into our enterprise, so that we may boldly face the challenges posed by globalization. The activities being conceived by the 50th Anniversary Celebration Organizing Committee are all oriented towards these objectives. It is an opportunity to bring together all CUHK members to share our achievements, in gratitude and gladness, with the community at large. It will also be an occasion for the Chinese University to reiterate its core values and its mission, and to bring to the community’s full view the University’s humanistic spirit, which has been its guiding light since the earliest days, its unique collegiate system, and its practical and functional General Education programmes.’
At the kick-off ceremony, Mr. Leung Ying-wai Charles, Chairman, 50th Anniversary Celebration Organizing Committee remarked, ‘Firmly embracing the vision and educational ideals of its founding scholars, CUHK has ridden out numerous hardships and challenges to develop into a reputable seat of higher learning today. Like many graduates in the 1970s, I have witnessed the growth of CUHK from its humble origin on the barren hills in Shatin to a modern comprehensive university whose verdant campus is universally admired. CUHK brings pride and satisfaction to alumni like myself. We should inherit the traditions and ideals of the University, and perpetuate its humanistic spirit during the golden jubilee. At the same time we should serve society with our caring spirit and professionalism.’
Walkathon to raise funds for I CARE progarmme
The kick-off ceremony was followed by the walkathon that took place at Lingnan Stadium on Chung Chi campus, with the aim of raising funds for the I  CARE progarmme. It was the first university-wide celebration activity of CUHK’s 50th anniversary and has received full support from the CUHK Convocation. There were over twenty teams with about 3,000 walkers from colleges, faculties, alumni, sponsors and friends of CUHK participating in the event. Starting from the Lingnan Stadium, walkers could choose between a 3 km (approximately 1 hour) route and a 6.5 km (approximately 2.5 hour) route. Those who took the short route reached the main campus and returned, while the others who walked round the campus enjoyed scenic views of Tolo Harbour and Pat Sin Leng on the way to the finish line. They competed for awards to encourage the greatest number of participants and the best fundraiser. The awards will be announced after Chinese New Year. A total of over HK$2 million has been raised during this event.
In order to help students to develop a long-term interest and commitment in serving local, regional and international communities by integrating their specialized knowledge with social and civic engagements, CUHK launched the I  CARE progarmme in September 2011. The programme supports a range of major categories of social and civic engagement progarmmes, including service projects and self-initiated action-research projects; internships in non-governmental organizations (NGOs); social enterprises and corporate social responsibility measures; university lectures on civility, seminars and forums; and enhancement of students’ mental wellness.
Having fun at the Carnival
A carnival was held at the Lingnan Stadium after the walkathon after the kick-off ceremony. It provided a chance for alumni, staff, students and their families to come together and celebrate the golden jubilee. It included variety shows performed by alumni, as well as staff and students from schools and kindergartens of the Federation of Alumni Associations. Booth games, children’s funland, parenting activities and trainer facilities were also arranged by alumni associations and CUHK units. All participants had fun on this enjoyable and cheerful Sunday.
CUHK 50th Anniversary website:http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/
CUHK 50th Anniversary Walkathon website:http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oia/walkathon
CUHK 50th Anniversary Carnival website:http://www.alumni.cuhk.edu.hk/50anniversary/eng/carnival.html 
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;id=97&amp;s=