[date]23 November 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK and Science Park Join Hands at InnoAsia 2012 to Promote Green and Healthy Living[/title]
InnoAsia 2012, an international conference jointly organized by the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation (HKSTPC) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), took place earlier with great success.  In this highly regarded conference, academics and leaders from business and industry exchanged views and experience on the theme 'Innovations for Green and Healthy Living'. The conference was opened by Mr. K.S. Wong, Secretary for the Environment; Mr. Johann Wong, Deputy Commissioner for innovation and Technology; Mr. Nicholas Brooke, Chairman, HKSTPC; Mr. E. Anthony Tan, Chief Executive Officer, HKSTPC; and Prof. Benjamin W. Wah, Provost and Wei Lun Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, CUHK. 
As the moderator of a panel discussion session at the conference, Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK shared his insights with international representatives of the clean energy and environment industries on the recruitment of talents. Professor Sung and the panel speakers agreed that multi-disciplinary exposure, curiosity and imagination are all essential qualities that students should possess in order to meet challenges of the future. Students should be trained to exercise their thinking outside of existing parameters and strive for advancement. 
In a tech forum on 'City Planning &amp; Buildings' chaired by Prof. Edward Ng from the CUHK School of Architecture, various leading regional and global experts in city planning and green buildings shared their experience in how business development and healthy environment can be mutually compatible through proper planning and implementing environmentally sustainable solutions. 
CUHK has proven success in converting knowledge and intellectual resources for applications in community, contributing to the economic and social well being of the community. The Knowledge Transfer Office (KTO) is dedicated to facilitating beneficial interaction between academia and the industry. At InnoAsia, KTO showcased various projects supported by its Knowledge Transfer Project Fund (KPF) to demonstrate how research achievements may be assimilated into the social, cultural, environmental and economic fabric of society. For instance, the project named 'Collaborative Ambulatory Drug Resources for Elderly (CARxE) – Promoting Medication Safety and Improved Clinical Outcomes among the Elderly Community through Telepharmacy and Outreach Services' from the Faculty of Medicine, identifies and resolves drug-related problems for elders, and develops the much needed and impactful health promotion programme including home visits to communicate with the elderly and their caregivers.  For another example, the project on 'Sustainable Environmental Design and Climatic Application Study' by Prof. Edward Ng of School of Architecture, shared with industry practitioners the research outcomes of their project on Urban Climatic Map, and advised the Hong Kong Government on key strategic actions which have made profound impact on the practice and drawn public concern through the application and implementation of research findings. 