[date]26 February 2013[/date]
[title]Two Outstanding CUHK Architecture Graduates to Embark on Internships in Top-notch German and Japanese Architectural Firms
Sponsored by The Wharf (Holdings) Limited
[/title]
Two fresh graduates of the Master of Architecture Programme of the School of Architecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) have been selected to enter the 2012-13 Architectural Design Internship Programme (the Programme) established by The Wharf ArchDesign Resource Trust (the Trust) of The Wharf (Holdings) Limited.  Launched in 2011, the Programme is the first-of-its-kind in Hong Kong, providing rare opportunities for students to work for celebrated international firms overseas with full financial support.  
The awardees will undertake a 12-month internship shortly this year with their dream architectural firms in Germany and Japan respectively that are at the innovative edge of architectural design. The Trust will generously provide financial support covering airfares and living expenses up to HK$350,000 for each graduate intern. 
'This programme aims at grooming local architectural talents who will later contribute to the architectural landscape of Hong Kong. I am glad to learn from the two returning students, Kenneth Wong and Lau Hing Ching that their internship experience proved to be extremely inspiring though tough at times. The programme will benefit more students going forward as we extend it to students of Department of Architecture of The University of Hong Kong,' said Ms. Doreen Lee, Executive Director of The Wharf (Holdings) Limited at the award presentation ceremony held at Be on Canton, Gateway Hotel, Tsim Sha Tsui today. 
'We are very grateful to Wharf ArchDesign Resource Trust for the staunch support given to the internship programme for the enhancement of architecture design in Hong Kong. The valuable experience gained by the two graduates in Switzerland last year will not only hone their design skills but also make contribution to Hong Kong's architecture practices in the future. The Wharf (Holdings) Limited is one of the major property developers in Hong Kong and mainland China, we look forward to working continuously with the Trust in nurturing young architecture talents as well as promoting and improving architecture education as a whole,' said Prof. Ho Puay-peng, Director, School of Architecture, CUHK. 
The Programme aims at fostering excellence in architecture and grooming future star architects by providing students with placement opportunities in internationally-renowned design firms. Working alongside distinguished designers in an atelier setting will broaden participating graduates' horizons and allow them a hands-on understanding of architectural practice and urban design with different cultural heritage in foreign countries. At the end of the Programme, the graduates will be required to return to Hong Kong and contribute to architectural design in the territory with the experience gained abroad. 
Subsequent to a rigorous selection process, two winning graduates, Ruth Poon Lok Chin and Ricco Chan Chun Yu, were selected for 2012/2013 internship programme. They are grateful to the Trust for providing them with the invaluable opportunity that will help tremendously in their career in architectural design. Ms Poon and Mr Chan will work in the architecture offices of Baumschlager Eberle Berlin GmbH in Berlin and SANAA in Tokyo respectively.  BE Berlin GmbH's recent masterpieces include Moma in Beijing and Check-in 3 of Vienna International Airport in Austria; while SANAA's include 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art in Kanazawa, Japan, and Zollverein School of Design in Essen, Germany. 
Two returning graduates, Lau Hing Ching and Kenneth Wong Chi Kan, who worked at Christian Kerez AG and Herzog &amp; de Meuron in Switzerland respectively, shared their valuable experience at the Internship Presentation Ceremony.
Lau Hing Ching said, 'I worked in Zurich, Switzerland last year. I was impressed by the firm's insistence on pursuing precision. I believe it is the reason why Swiss architectural design is among the top-tier in the world.  I am thankful to the Trust for providing me with the invaluable opportunity to work in my dream firm soon after my graduation, and my architectural design skills have been enhanced.'
Another returning graduate, Kenneth Wong Chi Kan said, 'It was a journey of discovery of the conceptual precision, elemental simplicity, exquisite detailing and craftsmanship of Swiss architecture.  Their inspiring and fascinating virtuosity and astonishing imagination have motivated me to seek for opportunities to work in the remarkable architectural practices, which would be beneficial to my own practice in future.  I would like to express my gratitude to the Trust for not only giving me financial support, but also making effort to liaise with Consulate General of Switzerland and the architecture firm.  With the help of the Trust, I am grateful that my dream of undertaking an internship at Herzog &amp; de Meuron came true.'
 