[date]8 November 2012[/date]
[title]CUHK Lee Wing Kit Advanced Ophthalmic Training and Education Centre Opens Today
Equipped with State-of-the-art Ophthalmic Diagnostic Technologies and Training Facilities
[/title]
The grand opening of the Lee Wing Kit Advanced Ophthalmic Training and Education Centre (AOTEC) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was held today (8 November). The Ceremony was hosted by Prof Pang Chi Pui Calvin, Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, CUHK, and Prof Tham Cheee Yung Clement, Director of CUHK Eye Centre. Officiating guests included Mrs Nancy Lee; Prof Sung Jao Yiu Joseph, Vice-Chancellor and President, CUHK and Prof Fok Tai Fai, Dean of Faculty of Medicine, CUHK; Dr Leung Pak Yin, Chief Executive, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Dr Hung Chi Tim, Cluster Chief Executive, Kowloon Central Cluster, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Dr Cheung Kwong Yu, Hospital Chief Executive, Hong Kong Eye Hospital; and Dr Dennis Lam, Honorary Professor of Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, CUHK. AOTEC was named after the late Mr Lee Wing Kit in recognition of the support from the Lee's family to the University's development. Over 130 distinguished guests and members of the University attended the ceremony.  
In his welcoming address, Prof Sung Jao Yiu Joseph expressed his deepest gratitude to the late Mr Peter Ting Chang Lee, Mrs Nancy Lee and the Lee's family for their generous donation towards the establishment of the AOTEC. In addition, Prof Sung said that he is very grateful for the tremendous support of the University Grants Committee (UGC), the Food and Health Bureau of the Government of the HKSAR and the Hospital Authority in making the AOTEC possible. Equipped with state-of-the-art ophthalmic diagnostic technologies and training facilities, the AOTEC will definitely help the department accomplish its mission of helping Hong Kong to become the regional hub and centre of excellence in ophthalmic training and education, in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond. 
Prof Fok Tai Fai mentioned that the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences has come a long way to become an internationally renowned centre in ophthalmology of today. Colleagues in the Department have made great achievements in ophthalmic education, training, clinical service and research. The inauguration of AOTEC is yet another important milestone marking the progress of the Department in its pursuit for excellence in training and education. AOTEC will serve as a hub for advanced ophthalmic training and international exchanges and consultations and will bring the training and education to new heights. 
Dr Leung Pak Yin stated that with Hong Kong's aging population and an increasing percentage of the younger generation suffering from vision-related complaints, there is an expanding demand for ophthalmology services in Hong Kong. In 2010/2011, the Hospital Authority (HA) recorded over 230,000 specialty outpatient visits at the Hong Kong Eye Hospital (HKEH). The AOTEC at the HKEH will play a pivotal role in further strengthening close collaboration between the HA and CUHK. AOTEC will enhance the quality of eye-care services and treatment in Hong Kong through the provision of world-class ophthalmologic training, research and diagnostic services. 
Dr Hung Chi Tim mentioned that AOTEC allows researchers to use cutting-edge technologies in virtual reality environment to study the diagnosis and treatment of common illnesses. The Telemedicine Centre in AOTEC will allow for international educational programs. There is also additional space for ophthalmic pathology training of the Hospital Authority Lions Eye Bank. 
Dr Cheung Kwong Yu pointed out that the inauguration of AOTEC will provide ophthalmologists with further opportunities for Hospital Authority and the Chinese University of Hong Kong to work together to further strengthen Hong Kong's expertise with respect to ophthalmic-related patient service and professional training. 
Mrs Nancy Lee stated in her welcoming speech that she is very happy to establish a close partnership with the Chinese University of Hong Kong and wishes the AOTEC will further strengthen the training and education in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, and become the foundation to cultivate young ophthalmologists for the betterment of the mankind. 
In his thank you note Prof Pang Chi Pui Calvin reiterated the devotion and dedication of CUHK colleagues in advancing training and education in ophthalmology and visual sciences. They are fully committed to long term and high level work in Hong Kong.
State-of-the-art facilities in support of advanced ophthalmic trainingLocated on the 4th floor of the Hong Kong Eye Hospital (“HKEH”) and with an area of approximately 1,100 sq. m., AOTEC is equipped with state-of-the-art training and education facilities to provide necessary knowledge of Ophthalmic and Visual Sciences to both undergraduate medical students and post-graduate research students, basic training to Ophthalmic residents, subspecialty training to subspecialty trainees, and advanced training to Ophthalmology subspecialists. The major facilities of the AOTEC include: 
Virtual Reality Laboratory for surgical trainingVirtual Reality Laboratory allows simulations of special surgical environments that are not available through traditional wet laboratory training, providing valuable learning and practising opportunity on complex physiological, pathological and procedural concepts. Learners are able to understand the complex parts of eye anatomy and diseases through repetitive virtual operative trainings. 
The Telemedicine CentreState-of-the-art teleconferencing technologies are available in The Telemedicine Centre for students and eye doctors to participate in joint educational programmes with major international eye institutes, facilitating discussions of ophthalmic cases and evidence-based practice of ophthalmology. 
Advanced ophthalmic investigation and diagnosisAOTEC provides one-stop advanced diagnostic trainings with advanced and mostly non-invasive technologies, including optical coherence tomography, high resolution photography, multifocal electroretinography for anterior segment especially the cornea, posterior segment including vitreous, retinal and macular diseases and glaucoma. 
For enquiries, please contact us at 3943 5822 or at www.ovs.cuhk.edu.hk
 