[date]29 November 2012[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 71st Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 71st Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees (Congregation) today (29 November). Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, presided over the congregation and conferred all Master's and Bachelor's degrees. On the same occasion, Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor, presented awards to 25 outstanding teachers and researchers in recognition of their achievements.
University Education Award 2012
The University instituted the University Education Award in 2011-12 to honour academics for outstanding commitment to the promotion of teaching excellence. Recipients of the award are commended for their contributions to enhancing the student learning experience through curriculum design/development, scholarship in teaching and learning, as well as adoption of learner-centred approaches. The selection panel of the university-wide education award comprises the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education), Associate Deans (Education) of the eight Faculties and the Director of University General Education. The awardees of the University Education Award 2012 were Prof. Shekhar Madhukar Kumta, Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Faculty of Medicine; and Prof. Chu Ming-chung, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science. Both professors were also nominated by the University for the University Grants Committee Teaching Award 2012, and Professor Kumta was among the three winners in the territory.
Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2011
At the Congregation, Professor Sung also presented the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2011. The award has been given annually since 1999 by the Vice-Chancellor to exemplary teachers nominated by the Dean of each Faculty in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year nine awardees were presented this prestigious award: Prof. Chong Yau-yuk, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Ng Cheuk-yin Andrew, Faculty of Business Administration; Mr. Lo Yuen-cheong, Faculty of Education; Prof. Liao Wei-hsin, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Lutz-Christian Wolff, Faculty of Law; Prof. Chan Sun-on Hector, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Au Kwok-keung Thomas, Faculty of Science; Prof. Lee Kaman, Faculty of Social Science; and Dr. Kou Kei-chun, General Education. A total of 96 outstanding educators have been given the award since 1999, eight of whom received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance.
Young Researcher Award 2011 and Postgraduate Research Output Award 2011
The Young Researcher Award and the Postgraduate Research Output Award were established in 2002 to recognize research accomplishments of young faculty members and to encourage quality research. The Young Researcher Award is open to all eligible full-time teachers at Assistant Professor rank or above and below the age of 45. The Postgraduate Research Output Award is open to all eligible full-time or part-time postgraduate students of the University. The Dean of each Faculty is invited every year to nominate one member who has produced the best research output for each award. The Research Committee considers nominations received and recommends successful candidates for approval by the Administrative and Planning Committee. Recipients of the Young Researcher Award 2011 were Prof. Yip Ching-wah Francis, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Shen Hao, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Wong Lai-ngok Jocelyn, Faculty of Education; Prof. Zhang Yingjun Angela, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Xi Chao, Faculty of Law; Prof. Tsui Bo-yin Nancy, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Miao Qian, Faculty of Science; and Prof. Huang Bo, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and an amount of HK$100,000 in the form of a research grant.
Recipients of the Postgraduate Research Output Award 2011 were Mr. Mong Ih-ren Ambrose, Faculty of Arts; Dr. Mak Chi-kuan Miranda, Faculty of Education; Mr. Kwok Tsz-ho, Faculty of Engineering; Dr. Tian Xiaoyu, Faculty of Medicine; Ms. He Lisi, Faculty of Science; and Mr. Heinz Christoph Steinhardt, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and a prize of HK$25,000 in cash.
Master's and Bachelor's Degree Graduates in 2012 
A total of 5,063 Master's degrees and 3,362 Bachelor's degrees were conferred at the congregation. Among the latter were 515 Bachelor of Arts, 634 Bachelor of Business Administration (including four graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree, and one who was simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Science degree), 44 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 82 Bachelor of Education, 309 Bachelor of Engineering, 61 Bachelor of Laws, 134 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 195 Bachelor of Nursing, 34 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 23 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 717 Bachelor of Science (including eight graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme), and 570 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=93&amp;s=
 