[date]17 January 2013[/date]
[title]Renowned Experts Share Insights on Global Economy with Central Bankers of Non-G20 Members at Advanced Programme for Central Bankers on Basel III organized by CUHK Institute of Global Economics and Finance
[/title]
To promote the leading role of Hong Kong as an international financial and banking centre, the Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has launched a three-day advanced programme on Basel III for central bankers from non-G20 countries and regions starting today (17 January). Featured speakers of the programme include Professor Liu Mingkang, former Chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission and BCT Distinguished Research Fellow of IGEF; Professor Joseph Yam, former Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and Distinguished Research Fellow of IGEF; Professor Lawrence J. Lau, former Vice-Chancellor and Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics, CUHK; Dr. Andrew Sheng, former Chairman of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission; Mr. Alvin Chua, Head of Asia of F&amp;C Asset Management Asia Limited; Mr. Peter Wong, Chief Executive of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited; Dr. Patrick Fung, Chairman of Wing Hang Bank Limited; and Mr. David Shou-Yeh Wong, Chairman of Dah Sing Bank Limited. Around 20 central bankers from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos, Macao, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Qatar, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, and others participated in the programme. 
The international programme is the first of its kind in Hong Kong, serving as an important platform for central bankers from non-G20 countries and regions to exchange and update their knowledge of Basel III agreement. The programme is partially sponsored by Bangkok Bank, Bank of China Limited – Phnom Penh Branch, Glory Harvest Group Holdings Limited, HOPU Investment Management Co., Ltd., Industrial and Commercial Bank of China – Phnom Penh Branch and Sunwah Foundation. 
IGEF was established in January 2010 with an aim to contribute conceptual and policy ideas to the opening up of China's financial system. Drawing on the educational and research strengths and resources of the Department of Economics and the Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the Institute hopes to make contributions to the modernization of China's monetary and financial systems by contributing new ways of thinking, making policy recommendations and pointing out new paths for liberalization.