[date]6 November 2012[/date]
[title]Professor Justin Yifu Lin, Honorary Dean of National School of Development at Peking University to Speak at CUHK next Thursday on ‘Demystifying the Chinese Economy’
Members of the Public are Welcome[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited Prof. Justin Yifu Lin, Honorary Dean of National School of Development at Peking University, former Senior Vice President and Chief Economist of the World Bank, to present a public lecture on ‘Demystifying the Chinese Economy’ on campus next Thursday (15 November). The lecture will be conducted in English. Interested members of the public are welcome to join and register online at: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/lectures/linyifu.
As a result of the miraculous growth since the market-oriented reform in 1979,China’s status in the global economy has dramatically changed. In the coming lecture, Prof. Justin Yifu Lin will reflect on China’s unprecedented growth in the past 32 years, examine the reasons of that growth, and discuss prospects and challenges for China to maintain an eight-percent annual growth rate in the coming decades.
Professor Lin founded the China Centre for Economic Research (CCER) at Peking University in 1994 and served for 15 years as Founding Director and Professor of the Centre. In 2008, he was appointed the Senior Vice President and Chief Economist of the World Bank, guided the Bank’s intellectual leadership and played a key role in shaping the economic research agenda of the institution. He was the first Chief Economist of the World Bank from a developing country, and the first Chinese assuming this position. In 2012, he returned to Peking University for teaching and research work. Professor Lin served on several national and international committees, leading groups, and councils on development policy, technology, and environment.
Details of the public lecture are as follows: 
Date:
15 November 2012 (Thursday)
Time:
3:30 p.m.
Venue:
Lecture Theatre 6, 1/F, Lee Shau Kee Building, CUHK, Shatin
Language:
English
Registration:
http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/lectures/linyifu
Enquiries:
Communications and Public Relations Office (Tel: 3943-8893)
