[date]21 February 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Partners with Coursera to Offer Global Online Education[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today (21 February) announced an agreement to partner with Coursera, a leading massive open online course (MOOC) platform, to bring CUHK's courses online worldwide and available to everyone for free. CUHK will be hosting five debut online courses reaching students across the globe, and across a wide range of disciplines including humanities, social sciences, economics and finance, as well as information technology. 
Since Coursera launched in April 2012, the company has registered a total of almost 2.7 million users, and is seeing approximately 1.45 million course enrollments per month. Coursera has partnered with top-tier universities around the world, including Stanford University, California Institute of Technology, Columbia University, University of Michigan, and the University of Washington. 
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK said, 'As a forward looking comprehensive research university committed to excellence in education and research, CUHK always strives to explore innovative ways to enhance the learning experience of our students. We are pleased to become a partner institution of Coursera to bring our high quality courses, online worldwide for everyone. With a global vision and a mission to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West, we are proud to promote our unique culture and quality teaching to the world via the platform.'
Highlighted courses offered by CUHK on Coursera platform include 'The Beauty of Kunqu Opera' and 'Classics of Chinese Humanities: Guided Readings', which will be available in native language Chinese. The courses aim to bridge the gap between the East and the West, adding new perspectives in the areas of Chinese arts and culture. Under the partnership, the following five courses will be available online in two years' time starting September 2013: 
'The Beauty of Kunqu Opera' by Prof. Hsien-yung Kenneth Pai, Wei Lun Professor of Humanities, Faculty of Arts, and Prof. Wei Hua, Professor and Division Head, Department of Chinese Language and Literature;
'Classics of Chinese Humanities: Guided Readings' by Prof. Ou Fan Leo Lee, Sin Wai Kin Professor of Chinese Culture, Faculty of Arts, and Prof. Wai Tsui, Assistant Professor, Department of Chinese Language and Literature;
'Structural Equation Model and its Applications' by Prof. Kit Tai Hau, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Choh-Ming Li Professor of Educational Psychology, Department of Educational Psychology;
'The Role of Renminbi (RMB) in the International Monetary System' by Prof. Joseph Yam, Distinguished Research Fellow of the Institute of Global Economics and Finance, and Honorary Professor of Business School, and Prof. Terence Tai-Leung Chong, Executive Director, Institute of Global Economics and Finance and Associate Professor of Economics; and
'Information Theory' by Prof. Raymond W. Yeung, Choh-Ming Li Professor of Information Engineering, and Co-Director, Institute of Network Coding.
 About Coursera
Coursera is on a mission to change the world by educating millions of people by offering classes from top universities and professors online for free. Coursera's comprehensive education platform combines mastery-based learning principles with video lectures, interactive content and a global community of peers, offering students from around the world a unique online learning experience. Coursera has partnered with top-tier universities to provide courses across a broad range of disciplines, including medicine, literature, history and computer science, among others. For more information, visit Coursera.org.
 