[date]2 March 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds Environment Fair 2013 to Promote Green Living
[/title]
Environmental problems are becoming more serious and we have no time to lose.  Adopting a sustainable way of living is of urgent need. CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia ('Gaia') held the Environment Fair 2013 today (2 March) at Cityplaza, Taikoo Shing. It aims at raising public awareness on environmental protection through green pioneers' sharing on a low-carbon and less-waste living style, musical performances, demonstrations of food waste conversion, as well as interactive information and game booths. Ms Christine LOH, Under Secretary for the Environment, The Government of Hong Kong SAR; Prof Joseph J Y SUNG, Vice-Chancellor and President, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); and Mrs Mimi CUNNINGHAM, Director, Human Resources and Sustainability of The Hong Kong Jockey Club officiated at the opening ceremony together with Dr Rebecca LEE, Founder, Polar Museum Foundation; Mr Angus HO, Executive Director, Greeners Action; Ms LI Sui Wah, Principal, Clementi Secondary School; and Prof P C CHING, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and Chairman of the Steering Committee of Gaia. The Environment Fair is one of the major events organized by Gaia annually. 
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, said, 'CUHK is committed to protecting the environment and promoting sustainable development.  We research intensively in environment, energy and sustainability-related technologies, with a view to improving the environment of Hong Kong.  We are honoured to collaborate with The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust to launch the "CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia", and share our experience and technologies with the community. Environmental protection is hardly a distant, complex issue exclusive to professionals; it is related to every one of us.  It is our hope to, through the Environment Fair, bring joy, spread green messages, showcase sustainability initiatives, and connect the community with Gaia.' 
Mrs Mimi Cunningham, Director of Human Resources and Sustainability of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, remarked that the 'CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia', as a joint initiative of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust and CUHK launched last year, is a large-scale community outreach programme to enhance public awareness in environmental protection. She hoped that the community would act on the green messages and knowledge obtained from the interactive information and game booths as well as the sharing by the guest speakers, so as to jointly make a difference to the future of Hong Kong. 
The Environment Fair 2013 featured a wide range of activities.  Ms Christine LOH, Dr Rebecca LEE and Mr Angus HO shared their ideas on the topic 'Climate Change and Low-carbon, Less-waste Living', and answered questions from and exchanged views with the participants.
There were interesting interactive information and game booths.  'Green Home Quiz' was an interactive eco-game to share energy-saving and waste-saving tips.  Participants collected plant seeds from 'Grow Your Own Plant!', a resource that encouraged greening one's own home and community. 
Gaia collaborated with numerous non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to promote green initiatives.  The Hong Chi Association demonstrated glass bottle creative arts and eco-bricks made by recycled glass, and St. James' Settlement introduced the concept of 'upcycling' – converting waste and discarded materials into completely new products of good quality with high environmental value, such as Can Watch, Feltlike Laptop Sleeve.  Tai Po Old Market Public School (Plover Cove), a member school of the Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme under Gaia and the first runner-up in the 2012 Green Mech Contest, exhibited parts of the winning entries. Participants of this contest were requested to design and build a 'contraption' by way of their science and mechanical knowledge, as well as green energy. There were also an a cappella performance by Just Acappella, a group of CUHK alumni, as well as an illustration of food waste conversion by a CUHK alumnus.
About CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving the way for a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and a carbon reduction partnership with schools and non-governmental organizations.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia consists of three components:
the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change, to present Dr Rebecca Lee's valuable 'Three Poles' collection (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest), innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust's endeavours contributing to the improvement of the environment;
the Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme, a partnership project engaging local schools and non-governmental organizations to reduce carbon emissions; and
a series of environmental conferences, public forums and educational fairs to promote various initiatives to combat climate change. 
For more details of CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia, please visit www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk.
 