[date]29 October 2012[/date]
[title]A Jazzy Christmas with Howard McCrary - When CUHK Chorus Meets the American Legend
Tickets Available from 1 November
[/title]
One of the vital elements to the festive moods of Christmas is the joyous carols. But what if the familiar melodies are seasoned by ingenious jazzy tunes and start to turn funky? On 1 December this year, renowned jazz pianist Howard McCrary will join The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus (CU Chorus) to present a sensational jazzy Christmas night with a series of newly-arranged carols at Jockey Club Amphitheatre, Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts. Tickets are available at HK Ticketing box offices from 1 November onwards. Please call 3128 8288 for ticket reservation via credit card or visit http://www.hkticketing.com. 
The legendary Howard McCrary is best known as a composer, arranger, producer, pianist and singer in his forty years of career in jazz and gospel music. Nominated the 1986 Grammy for So Good, he has collaborated with many super stars, including Michael Jackson and Quincy Jones. Recently relocated to Hong Kong, McCrary extends his musical legacy to the city and works with local musicians, such as Chung's Brothers. 
CU Chorus will have its first collaboration with McCrary in the concert A Jazzy Christmas with Howard McCrary, presenting Christmas classics arranged in a jazzy style. Specially arranged by McCrary for this occasion, the novel remix stuns the ears and promotes the message of love and peace. 
This concert will also raise funds for CU Chorus' "On Wings of Song" sponsorship scheme, helping to facilitate student members yet to have earning power to join the chorus' coming overseas performance, broadening their horizons with exchange activities. 
For programme enquiries and interview requests, please call 6030 5684 (Mr. Roger Fong) or email to cuchorus@cuchorus.org.hk. For more details, please visit CU Chorus website: http://www.cuchorus.org.hk.The Chinese University of Hong Kong ChorusMusic Director and Conductor: Leon Chu 
After nearly 40 years' pursuit of excellence, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus (CU Chorus) has become one of the best local university choirs. Rooted in Hong Kong with a global view, CU Chorus has performed not only at the local stage, but also in various cities in southern China and southeast Asia. With its high quality performances and innovative programmes, CU Chorus is dedicated to promoting and sharing the choral art with the public.
 