[date]31 July 2013[/date]
[title]Prof. Xu Yangsheng Appointed the First President 
of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen[/title]
The Governing Board of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen today (31 July) announced the appointment of Prof. Xu Yangsheng as the first President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen [CUHK (SZ)] for a period of four years from 1 August 2013.  Professor Xu will step down from the position of CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor with effect from the same date. 
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Chairman of the Governing Board of CUHK (SZ), and Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK said, 'Members of the Governing Board of CUHK (SZ) have unanimously approved the recommendation of the Search Committee for the Appointment of the President to appoint Prof. Xu Yangsheng as the President of CUHK (SZ).  Professor Xu possesses distinguished achievement in teaching and research, and is also a seasoned leader in university administration conversant with mainland and Hong Kong education systems.  In addition, his global vision and noble educational principles also made him stand out.  I believe that CUHK (SZ), under Professor Xu's leadership, will carry on CUHK's traditions of academic excellence to become a preferred research university based in Shenzhen, firmly rooted in China and endowed with a global vision.'
Xu Yangsheng to bring CUHK educational philosophy to the mainland 
Professor Xu is an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) and a Professor of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering at CUHK.  Throughout his tenure of CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor, he has been supervising the University's projects and affairs in Shenzhen and mainland China.  Professor Xu feels deeply honoured to be the first President of CUHK (SZ).  He said, 'I am thankful to the Governing Board for entrusting me with this important responsibility.  The establishment of CUHK (SZ) does not only represent a historical step in CUHK's development in mainland China, but also promises to have a profound impact on the socio-economic advancement of Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta region, as well as educational reform in China.  I pledge to do my best with my colleagues to take CUHK's core educational philosophy and values to our motherland.  By leveraging on our strengths, we shall nurture future generations of university graduates who are international in outlook, learned in the disciplines, upright in their character, and committed to serving the needs of society.  The collaborations between Hong Kong and the mainland will also create synergy.' 
World-renowned expert on robotics and a staunch contributor to the advancement of China's space technology 
A world-renowned expert on robotics, Professor Xu studied Engineering at Zhejiang University, China and received his BEng and MEng degrees in 1982 and 1984 respectively.  He pursued further studies at the University of Pennsylvania and received his Ph.D. in 1989, then worked at Carnegie Mellon University from 1989 to 1997.  He joined CUHK in 1997 and was chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering until 2004, and was subsequently appointed to the office of Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK in 2011. Professor Xu is concurrently the Associate Director of the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. 
Professor Xu is a staunch contributor to the advancement of intelligent control systems in China's space technology. He has initiated and participated in the research and development of relevant systems. Professor Xu was elected an Academician of International Eurasian Academy of Sciences in 2001, a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2003 and a Fellow of the International Academy of Astronautics as well as an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering in 2007. 
Worldwide search for President 
The President of CUHK (SZ) was selected from a global search process, and was appointed in accordance with the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Chinese-Foreign Cooperation in Running Schools and the Guidelines on the Search and Selection for CUHK (SZ) President.  The Search Committee for the Appointment of the President comprised seven members, including Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Chairman of the Governing Board of CUHK (SZ), and Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Prof. Li Qingquan; Prof. Liu Yingli; Mr. Roger K.H. Luk; Dr. Anthony Neoh; Prof. Liu Pak-wai and Prof. Kenneth Young.  The Search Committee received 21 nominations/ applications and unanimously recommended Prof. Xu Yangsheng to the Governing Board of CUHK (SZ) as the final candidate after thorough consideration.
About CUHK (SZ)
CUHK (SZ) is located in the Longgang District of Shenzhen, encompassing a campus area of around one million square metres (100 hectares), half of which is buildable area and the rest is green belt area. Student admission will be launched in phases with an ultimate student population of 11,000, of whom 6,000 will be undergraduates and 5,000 postgraduates.  Admission of the first batch of students is expected to commence in 2014.  The academic programmes and curriculum are designed to meet global trend and the needs of regional development.  Equal emphasis will be placed on Science/Business and Arts/Humanities.  CUHK (SZ) will follow the whole-person education approach of CUHK to introduce the core curriculum including General Education to students of all disciplines.  The President of CUHK (SZ) is responsible for the management of CUHK (SZ), under the leadership of the Governing Board. CUHK (SZ) will uphold academic freedom, foster an open academic environment and will be managed according to democratic principles.  The governing body of CUHK (SZ) is its Governing Board, to be chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK who will have a casting vote. 
CUHK formed a Task Force in 2009 to explore the possibility of establishing a campus in Shenzhen.  Between 2010 and 2012, CUHK signed Memorandum of Understanding and agreements with the Shenzhen Municipal Government and Shenzhen University respectively, and set up various committees to discuss academic, campus development, personnel and financial planning issues of CUHK (SZ). To refine the plan, CUHK has engaged its staff, students, alumni and academic faculties on many occasions for consultation and exchange of information.  In March 2013, CUHK signed a final agreement with the Shenzhen Municipal Government and Shenzhen University. The Governing Board of CUHK (SZ) was also formed, comprising eight members each nominated by CUHK and Shenzhen University: 
ChairmanProf. Joseph J.Y. Sung (Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK) 
Vice-ChairmanProf. Li Qingquan (President of Shenzhen University) 
Members (in alphabetical order by Chinese pinyin of last names)Prof. Ching Pak-chung (Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Professor of Electronic Engineering, CUHK)Mr. Deng Xueqin (President, Genzon Group Shenzhen)Prof. Li Xia (Dean and Professor of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University)Prof. Liu Pak-wai (Professor of Economics, former Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK)Prof. Liu Yingli (President, Shenzhen Enterprise Confederation / Shenzhen Entrepreneur Association, Honorary Professor of Faculty of Engineering, CUHK)Mr. Roger K.H. Luk (Council member and Treasurer, CUHK)Dr. Anthony Neoh (Council member of CUHK, senior member of the bar)Prof. Ruan Shuangchen (Vice-President, Professor of Optoelectronic Engineering, Shenzhen University)Mr. Song Hai (Standing Director, China Centre for International Economic Exchange)Prof. Benjamin Wah (Provost, Wei Lun Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, CUHK)Prof. Wu Qidi (Professor and former President of Tongji University)Prof. Xu Yangsheng (Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Professor of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering, CUHK)Prof. Kenneth Young (Professor of Physics, former Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK)Prof. Zhong Nanshan (Head of Institute for Respiratory Disease in Guangzhou, Vice-President of Guangdong Provincial Science and Technology Association)
 