[date]12 April 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Livable Environment Today[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia today (12 April) held a forum entitled 'Livable Environment' at the Christian Family Service Centre, Kwun Tong. At this forum under the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series', professionals from the architectural and urban planning fields and experts from the social welfare and public sectors shared views and vision on livable environment, drawing reference from the Kwun Tong Project. Participants from public or private sector organizations, local schools and tertiary institutions took part in the event. 
The forum was chaired by Professor Wallace CHANG, Associate Professor of the School of Architecture, CUHK.  The Hon CHAN Yuen-han, Member of the Legislative Council, was the keynote speaker.  The panelists included Dr Ernest LEE Shu-wing, Director of the Kwun Tong Project, Urban Renewal Authority; Mr KWOK Lit-tung, Chief Executive of the Christian Family Service Centre; and Professor John NG Cheuk-yee, Adjunct Professor of the School of Architecture, CUHK. 
The Hon Chan Yuen-han discussed the importance of creating a livable environment in a holistic approach, making reference to Kai Tak Sports City and Kwun Tong Yue Man Square. It is important to respect the indigenous culture and history, maintain a harmonious neighbourhood relationship, support the local economy and provide job opportunities as well. In the process of constructing a livable environment, apart from the initiative of "assertive planning", efforts to contain different views and expectations are also necessary, through which comprehensive planning for an ideal living space can be achieved. 
During the Question and Answer session, participants raised questions on what alivable environment should be like and how to create it, and shared views on Hong Kong'' environmental development. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
Rising environmental awareness, together with the proactive policies implemented by the government, has inspired the community to advocate for environmental protection.  In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in pro-environment activities, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is organizing the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series'.  Experts and practitioners from different fields and the public will be involved to confer on the best ways to deal with environmental challenges and impacts of climate change. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.