[date]23 July 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Launches Hong Kong's First Free Mobile App on Weight Management
'My Wellness Tracker HK'[/title]
The Centre for Nutritional Studies at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has developed the territory's first free digital weight management tool named 'My Wellness Tracker HK', to help individuals build up healthy lifestyle and eating habits and thereby control their weight effectively. The Tracker offers comprehensive nutrition information of local food, energy consumption calculator, and keeps record of one's daily water intake and sleeping pattern. The mobile App is applicable on both iOS and Android platforms. A webpage version is also available for users to synchronize data conveniently. 
According to a survey conducted by The Centre for Nutritional Studies, 88% of the respondents were not sure about their daily energy requirement. There is a common misconception that diet control is the best way to lose weight and the importance of energy balance and healthy lifestyle is often overlooked. A recently published journal (JAMA Intern Med. 2013 173(2):105-111) suggested that a weight management regime with the assistance of an appropriate mobile App can enhance the results. 'My Wellness Tracker HK' launched by the Centre is designed as a diary on which users can input their anthropometrics data, daily dietary and physical activities records. The Tracker will then evaluate the user's weight condition and energy requirement. It comprises a food database showing nutrition information of popular local dishes and food items, e.g. egg puffs, fish paste shao mai, imitate shark fin soup, cocktail bun and beans pudding. By simply input the food portion, the Tracker will show users the energy and macronutrients intake. The exercise database contains information of various sports and physical activities. Estimated energy expenditure will be shown when users provide information on the type of activities and duration. 
Prof. Mandy Man Mei SEA, Centre Manager, Centre for Nutritional Studies, CUHK, said, 'The tracker will send reminders to users who fail to meet their goals, e.g. giving advice on adjustment of carbohydrates, proteins, vegetables or fruits and water intake, sleeping habits and amount of exercises. It is hoped that users will gradually develop and regular and balanced lifestyle to achieve their weight management goals.' Various charts can also be viewed from the Tracker which show the changes of one's dietary and exercise pattern. The records on the Tracker will also be useful for health care professionals to give weight management advice to the users. 
'My Wellness Tracker HK' is now available on App Store and Google Play for free. It is also available on the web: https://wellness.mect.cuhk.edu.hk/. Data stored on the App or on the website can be synchronized. In addition, the Centre has developed a set of education tools on nutrition and exercise for liberal studies of Hong Kong primary and secondary schools to enhance the awareness of weight management among Hong Kong teenagers. Interested schools may contact the Centre for Nutritional Studies at 2252-8831 or 3178-9211 to get the teaching tools for free while stock lasts.