[date]23 May 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents 2012 Long Service Awards to 56 Members of Staff
Three Awardees Share Unforgettable Experience at CUHK 
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2012 Long Service Awards to 56 staff members who have been with the University for 25 and 35 years. Forty-nine received the award for having worked at CUHK for 25 years and seven, for 35 years. The awards ceremony was officiated by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung. 
Prof. Shaw Pang-chui 
Prof. Shaw Pang-Chui obtained his B.Sc. and M.Phil. degrees in biology from CUHK. In 1983, he obtained a Croucher Foundation Scholarship to further study and obtained his Ph.D degree in Biotechnology in the UK. He returned to his alma mater in 1987 as a lecturer and since then, he has been teaching and doing research in molecular biology and biotechnology for 25 years. He is currently professor at School of Life Sciences. and takes up a number of administrative duties in CUHK, including director of Biochemistry Programme, director of Centre for Protein Science and Crystallography, deputy director of the Institute of Chinese Medicine, and Master of Postgraduate Halls. 
Professor Shaw was the first awardee of Cheng Ming Award, the highest honour bestowed on New Asia students for excellent academic performance, good conduct and outstanding leadership calibre. Apart from actively participating in research, he was also enthusiastic about teaching the underprivileged children. Now working on campus daily, he always recalls the fond memories when he was a student. 
Professor Shaw research achievements in genetic engineering and molecular biology have been remarkable, and he is a world pioneer in the molecular authentication of Chinese medicinal materials. He has helped various government agencies to establish the identities of medicinal materials. Professor Shaw is also instrumental in the establishment of the Centre for Protein Science and Crystallography, which contains the most extensive equipment for protein research in Hong Kong. He has trained more than 50 postgraduate students and many of them have established their careers as professors or researchers in local or overseas institutions. 
Mr. Ching Mun
Having served in CUHK for 35 years, Mr. Ching was promoted progressively from a junior workman to currently an estate manager in the building services section of the Estate Management Office, leading a team of frontline workers to manage the air-conditioning system of the whole university. He is a shining example of a lifelong learner who continuously equips himself with the latest knowledge and technology in his field. He treasures team spirit and has established a harmonic relationship with colleagues based on effective communication and mutual understanding. 
The numerous buildings on campus with different designs and operating systems is a challenge to Mr. Ching's work. A pertinent training schedule and timely support are essential to alleviate the work pressure faced by his subordinates. Mr. Ching is keen to contribute his expertise to make the beautiful CUHK campus lovlier, because he has been treating it as his home. 
Prof. Leung Yee 
Prof. Leung Yee graduated from the Department of Geography in 1972 and is currently Research Professor of the Department of Geography and Resource Management. Having spent over 40 years in CUHK, Professor Leung spares no effort to support the development of his department and Chung Chi College. He serves as the chairman of the alumni association of geography and the organizing committee of Chung Chi College anniversary celebrations. 
Professor Leung has exploited his multi-disciplinary knowledge in operations research and systems engineering to solve many problems of geographical methodology, quantitative analysis, and urban and regional planning. He always works with experts of different fields from various institutions to explore new research angles. He is concurrently the Director of the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability, and the Director of the Institute of Future Cities at CUHK, leading scholars of various disciplines to contribute to the sustainable development of Hong Kong and the world. 
About Long Service Award
The 25-year Long Service Award, introduced in 1988, consists of a certificate and a gold lapel pin and has been given to 900 staff members. The 35-year Long Service Award, inaugurated in 2008, has been given to 85 staff members including seven this year. Each recipient will receive a certificate and a souvenir. 