[date]26 June 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK-PWH Hybrid Cardiovascular Operating Theatre Officially Opens
Multi-functional Setting Enhances Surgical Outcomes[/title]
Funded by a generous donation of HK$20 million by an anonymous donor, the CUHK-PWH Hybrid Cardiovascular Operating Theatre opened today (26 June). Officiating guests of the opening ceremony included Ms. Grace Fong Yin-cheung and Mr. Raymond Yim Chun-man, representatives of the donor; Mr. Anthony Wu, Chairman, Hospital Authority (HA); Dr. Leung Pak Yin, HA Chief Executive; Mr. Edward Ho, Chairman of the Hospital Governing Committee, Prince of Wales Hospital (PWH); Dr. Fung Hong, Cluster Chief Executive, New Territories East Cluster; Prof. Francis K.L. Chan, Dean of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); Prof. C.A. van Hasselt, Chairman, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, CUHK; and Prof. Paul B.S. Lai, Chairman, Department of Surgery, CUHK. 
Mr. Anthony Wu, Chairman of Hospital Authority, expressed his sincere gratitude to the donor, 'The Prince of Wales Hospital is one of the three HA designated cardiothoracic surgery centres, serving 2.4 million population in the New Territories East and New Territories West. With this new cutting-edge facility, the hospital will be able to deliver higher quality surgical service benefiting not only patients with cardiovascular diseases, but also other disease types, such as neurosurgical and trauma cases. The extensive benefits of hybrid surgeries have been well proven. The new facility will further strengthen the hospital's capability and role as a trauma and cardiothoracic surgery centre in the community.' 
Prof. Francis K L Chan, Dean of Medicine, CUHK added, 'The new hybrid operating theatre has strengthened our competitiveness in teaching, research and clinical service. Our medical students and surgical trainees will have the opportunity to learn and master the state-of-the-art surgical technology.' 
Traditionally, patients with cardiovascular diseases undergoing operations like coronary artery bypass, valve repair and abdominal aneurysm stent may have to be examined and treated in multiple points of care in the hospital, including the radiology department for pre-operative imaging and the catheterization laboratory for percutaneous procedures before undergoing the surgery. Re-explorations are sometimes necessary after patients have been transferred to the intensive care unit. The new hybrid operating theatre integrates different technologies, offering real-time intra-operative imaging and computer-assisted instrument control to allow surgeons, physicians and interventional radiologists to perform all necessary procedures in one location. It can reduce health care cost and shorten hospital stay, while on the other hand enhance treatment efficiency and minimize the risk of patient transfer. 
Prof. Paul B.S. Lai, Chairman of the Department of Surgery at CUHK added that surgeons can now perform more advanced cardiovascular surgeries with critical patients who might otherwise not be operated at all. 'The minimally invasive and hybrid procedures have resulted in remarkably lower morbidity and mortality of elderly patients or patients with complex pathologies.' 
With the synergies between CUHK and PWH, the dedicated clinical teams have been committed to developing the best surgical care for patients and advance research of minimally-invasive surgery. They will continue to serve the community with the highest professional standards on education and caring practice, contributing to the advancement of health sciences.