[date]13 May 2013[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Twelfth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony 
[/title]
In celebration of its 50th anniversary this year, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) conferred Honorary Fellowships on the following seven distinguished persons who are closely associated with CUHK and have made remarkable contributions to the University and the community. The conferment ceremony was held today (13 May) on campus.
Mr. CHAN Chee-hoi, Warren 
Mr. Chan Chee-hoi, Warren is a renowned Senior Counsel in Hong Kong. He studied history at CUHK Chung Chi College before he studied law in the University of Hong Kong. Appointed as Senior Counsel (formerly known as Queen's Counsel) since 1994, Mr. Chan has been supporting the development of legal education in Hong Kong and mainland China. In 2004, he made a generous donation for the establishment of the Law School in CUHK. He had served as a member of the Planning Committee for Law for years and is currently a member of the Advisory Board of the School. Mr. Chan has been giving ardent support for CUHK Law students to participate in international mooting competitions by setting up the Warren Chan Advocacy Fund and the Warren Chan Moot Court at the Graduate Law Centre in Central. He has also made donations for the development of the Department of History and the Department of Philosophy.
Dr. CHAN Sui-kau 
Dr. Chan Sui-kau, a prominent industrialist and philanthropist, is the founder of Yangtzekiang Garment Ltd and YGM Group. He has held various key positions including President of the Federation of Hong Kong Garment Manufacturers, Founding Chairman of the Textile Council of Hong Kong, as well as Member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Committee, making tremendous contributions to the development of the textile industry and economy of Hong Kong. Dr. Chan and his family members are strong supporters of education in Hong Kong and mainland China, having made generous donations to numerous schools and universities, including CUHK's Institute of Chinese Medicine and the I‧CARE Programme. Dr. Chan's long record of distinguished public services has earned him various honours including the Gold Bauhinia Star and the Grand Bauhinia Medal by HKSAR Government, as well as Honourable Citizen of the cities of Dongguan, Guangzhou, Foshan and Wuxi.
Mr. HUEN Wing-ming, Patrick 
Mr. Huen Wing-ming, Patrick is currently Vice-Chairman and Executive Director of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China(Macau) Limited, with 50 years of banking experience. Mr. Huen has made significant contributions to the development of tertiary education, medical sector, social culture and infrastructure in Hong Kong and Macau. Appointed as a member of the Economic Development Council by the Macau SAR Government, Mr. Huen has been devoting significant efforts on diversifying Macau's economy. Mr. Huen also dedicated himself to the establishment of the Macau Alzheimer's Disease Association and became its Chairman. The Association has also joined Alzheimer's Disease International as a new member.  Mr. Huen is a keen supporter of academic exchanges and complementary cooperation between CUHK and the University of Macau.  Mr. Huen has also given massive support to CUHK.  He now serves as a member of both the Board of Trustees and Finance Committee of the Shaw College.  He also donated to the construction of the Shaw College Huen Wing Ming Building, which houses a multi-purpose learning centre.  In addition to helping found the Patrick Huen Wing Ming Professorship of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management, Mr. Huen also assisted Dr. Stanley Ho Medical Development Foundation in the establishment of the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases of CUHK.
Prof. LEE Kam-hon
Prof. Lee Kam-hon is currently Emeritus Professor of Marketing at CUHK. For more than 40 years, he has made significant contributions to the Faculty of Business Administration, assuming various key positions including Director of MBA Programmes, Faculty Dean, and Director of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management. He established a strong global student exchange network with leading MBA programmes in different key cities and helped in launching the territory's and Asia's first Executive MBA Programme in 1993. He also assisted the University to launch and complete the Teaching Hotel project on campus and established the Centre for Hospitality and Real Estate Research. Active in community services, Professor Lee has chaired or served in a number of advisory committees in the hospitality and related industries. He also taught and organized executive education programmes for different organizations including the World Bank, Coca-Cola (China), Hong Kong Disneyland, and many leading international hotel groups.
Dr. LEE Lok-sze, Rebecca
Dr. Lee Lok-sze, Rebecca is the world's first woman explorer to reach the Arctic, Antarctic and Mount Everest. She has made 18 expeditions to the poles and four ventures to Mount Everest. Over the past two decades, Dr. Lee has made immense contributions to polar exploration and research. She has been the Director of the Polar Museum Foundation which she founded in 1997 and has worked closely with polar scientists around the world to identify ways to protect the environment. With her photography and design talents, she proactively shares her observations and experience in the forms of articles, books, image exhibits and documentaries. Dr. Lee will also provide the valuable collections through her lifelong field work in the three poles to the 'Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change' to be set up by CUHK, with an aim to raise public awareness towards environmental protection. Dr. Lee is currently Adviser (Science) of the Leisure and Cultural Services Department and the Polar Research Committee of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Dr. LEONG Siu-hung, Edwin
Noted philanthropist Dr. Leong Siu-hung, Edwin is the Chairman and Founder of Tai Hung Fai Enterprise Company Limited. He has a deep personal commitment to social issues faced by the Hong Kong society, particularly children and the elderly. He offers educational opportunities and provides health care for the deprived by making donations in honour of his father, the late Mr. Henry G Leong, and through his Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation. The Henry G Leong Mobile Integrative Health Centre has offered medical check-up and consultation services to numerous elderly people who have mobility problems. Since 2005, Dr. Leong has generously donated to support the research activities and student exchange programmes of CUHK. He established the Henry G Leong Gerontology and Geriatrics Endowed Professorship in support of research on gerontology and geriatrics, and is currently a member of the Committee of Overseers of C W Chu College to guide the college's strategic development. An enthusiast about community service, Dr. Leong has served as Founding Member of Adventist Paediatric Heart Fund, and Honorary Advisor of Hong Kong Parkinson's Disease Foundation.
Prof. Mike McCONVILLE
Prof. Mike McConville is Emeritus Professor of the Faculty of Law at CUHK. He had assumed key positions in various top-notch universities including the New York University and University of Warwick. A leading socio-legal scholar, Professor McConville is well-known for his contributions in advocating human rights. He has undertaken advisory work in countries undergoing social transition on the restructuring of their legal systems and training of legal personnel, such as Latvia, Turkey and Peru. He was also a member of The Law Reform Commission of Hong Kong. With a large group of collaborators, Professor McConville completed an empirical study of Chinese criminal procedure, hoping to bring positive changes in China. In 2005, he was appointed the Founding Director and Professor of Law at CUHK School of Law. Under his leadership, the CUHK Law Faculty has undergone unprecedented growth and development as the newest provider of legal education in Hong Kong.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=124&amp;s=
 
 