[date]9 August 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits Outstanding Students via HKDSE[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong admitted, through JUPAS, 2,610 students who sat for the second Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) examination. Over 99.7 percent of them were Band A students. 
The University's minimum eligibility requirements for undergraduate admission are four core subjects and one elective. For this year's intake, a substantial percentage of candidates (39%) sat for seven subjects and a Mathematics Extended Part Module. 
Global Business Studies Ranks Top in Median Best 5 Scores in Hong Kong
The Chinese University has an impressive intake this year. Of all candidates who achieved Level 5 in five subjects or above in the HKDSE territory-wide, 31% were admitted by CUHK. The programmes chosen were mainly Global Business Studies, Medicine, Music, Economics, Pharmacy and Psychology. 
In terms of the median admission scores of the best five subjects, the top six programmes/streams are shown in the table below. Global Business Studies ranks as the programme with the highest median admission score in Hong Kong.

Programme/ Streams
Score for best 5 subjects (Median)

Global Business Studies
34

Pharmacy
33

Medicine
32

Global Economics and Finance
31

Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science
31

International Business and ChineseEnterprise
31

In terms of the scores for the best five subjects of individual candidates, 12 programmes/streams at CUHK admitted candidates with a score of 34 or above. The programmes include Music, Global Business Studies, Medicine, Pharmacy, Economics, Psychology, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis/ Quantitative Finance (broad-based admission), Profession Accountancy, Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science, Engineering, Science and Enrichment Mathematics, with the first six of these programmes admitting top candidates with a score of 35 (that is, Level 5 in 5 subjects).
Elite Students Join CUHK
"Star Scorer" to Support the Needy as a DoctorTsang Yee Wai, who has been active in volunteer services since Form 4, has always wanted to be a doctor in a public hospital and contribute her services to the needy. With unwavering efforts and strong determination, Yee Wai attained excellent results with 5 in seven subjects and is successfully admitted to the Medicine programme of CUHK. She will be amongst the first cohort to join the elite MB ChB Programme (Global Physician-Leadership Stream), which is the first such initiative in Asia. Students in that stream will have opportunities to pursue graduate studies such as Masters or PhD degrees either in CUHK or overseas universities such as the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge. They will be nurtured to take up leadership roles in health policy, medical education, cutting edge research or other promising fields in medical and health sciences. 
"Asteroid" Genius Hopes to Benefit MankindThrough outstanding performance in "Other Experiences and Achievements in Competitions/ Activities" (OEA), Lui Yat Man is also admitted to the Medicine programme this year.  Owing to his research and development achievements in an international science and engineering competition last year, Yat Man will have an asteroid named after him. He has always been fascinated by science, and his experience in conducting experiments and taking part in international competitions has helped to build up his dedication to scientific research. He hopes his research will benefit mankind in future. Business Student Aspires to Help Farmers Through Fair TradeThe Global Business Studies programme has always been a favourite amongst top students. Wong Nga Yee has excelled in this year's HKDSE, and with her immense interest in business, she looks forward to gaining professional business knowledge from the Global Business Studies programme.  She plans to take full advantage of the opportunities of studying in the US and Denmark, which are parts of the programme, to broaden her horizon. She plans to be engaged in activities furthering fair trade, helping to alleviate rural poverty, as well as promoting Chinese culture upon graduation. 
Interest Guides Choice of Music StudentLai Miu Yeung has been a typical science stream student who enjoys Mathematics and Science. However, through taking Music as an elective subject in his senior secondary years, he has come to the realization that music is a common language for mankind, a medium through which complex feelings and emotions may be expressed to enrich people's lives. Miu Yeung attained outstanding results with 5 in six subjects and is determined to become a member of the Music programme at CUHK. He believes that students should be guided by their interests in choosing their fields of studies, and not solely influenced by the views of parents, teachers or their peers.
Zheng Sheng Helps Pave the Way to UniversityBeing involved in drugs and fights, Lui Wing Ho has been in and out of Zheng Sheng College, a drug addiction treatment centre, twice. He has since reformed his ways and is now a student with dreams and aspirations for tertiary education. He has been offered admission to the Exercise Science and Health Education programme at CUHK, where he plans to become a Physical Education teacher, in the hope that he may influence others through sharing his personal experience. He is thankful to all who have supported him and will strive to work hard and turn a new page in life. 
This year 83 students were admitted to CUHK through the "School Principal's Nominations Scheme". 18 were admitted through "Other Experiences and Achievements in Competitions/ Activities". Through the Sports Scholarship Scheme, nine were admitted including students with outstanding achievements in sports such as squash, athletics, fencing, swimming, archery, handball and basketball. 
Enhanced Support for Prospective Students
The Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, Mrs Grace Chow, said, "With experience gleaned from admitting the first cohort of HKDSE students, the admission exercise this year went smoothly.  The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid will analyse this year's admission data and post information such as the median HKDSE results of the programmes on the CUHK website, to facilitate students in selecting Senior Secondary subjects or applying to universities. We look forward to welcoming the candidates of the second HKDSE examination to the CUHK family, and seeing them take part in all the orientation activities and the inauguration ceremony on 2 September."
To provide HKDSE candidates with up-to-date information that will help to prepare them for university application, the University is holding an Orientation Day for Undergraduate Admissions on 12 October. All Faculties and the nine Colleges will mount exhibition booths or conduct talks to give students a better understanding of the programmes available at University and life in the Colleges, as well as admission requirements and arrangements under the new academic structure.
The University will also continue to strengthen its efforts in fostering ties with career teachers of secondary schools and providing regular updates on latest developments at the University. The CUHK Student Ambassadors are eager to share with prospective students their admission and CUHK experience, as well as their rich and colourful student life.  Please visit www.cuhk.edu.hk/adm/ulife for more information.