[date]16 May 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development Hosts Conference on ‘Finding the Right Balance of Regulation for Economic Development:
China and Western Regulatory Models’
Now Open for Online Registration
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Law Faculty’s Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development(CFRED) will host a conference on ‘Finding the Right Balance of Regulation for Economic Development: China and Western Regulatory Models’ on 24-25 May 2013 (Friday and Saturday) in Hong Kong.  Panel members include Prof. Ross Levine, Willis H. Booth Chair in Banking and Finance, University of California, Berkeley; Prof. Daniel Berkowitz, Professor of Economics, Department of Economics, University of Pittsburg; Prof. Simon Deakin, Professor of Law, Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge; Prof. Xu Chenggang, World Class University Visiting Professor, Seoul National University and Quoin Professor in Economic Development, School of Economics and Finance, University of Hong Kong; Prof. Ryan Sheely, Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Harvard Kennedy School; Prof. Randall Peerenboom, Professor, Faculty of Business, Economic and Law, LaTrobe University; Mrs. Usha Thorat, Director, Centre for Advanced Financial Research and Learning; Prof. Dr. Carsten Herrmann-Pillath, Professor of Economics, Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. Interested parties may visit the website https://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2013conference/0524/cfred/registration.php for online registration. 
The conference will bring leading scholars from around the world to examine leading theories of development and regulation of the existing regulatory model in a comparative context, particularly with reference to changes seen as necessary following the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). 
Details are as follows: 

Topic:
‘Finding the Right Balance of Regulation for Economic Development: China and Western Regulatory Models’

Date:
Friday &amp; Saturday, 24-25 May 2013

Venue:
CUHK Graduate Law Centre, 2/F, Bank of America Tower,12 Harcourt Road, Central, Hong Kong

Enquiries:
Tel: (852) 3943-1110 , Fax: (852) 3943-8685, Email:  enqcfredconf@cuhk.edu.hk 

Programme rundown and speakers list are attached.

About CFRED 
The Faculty of Law of CUHK formed the Centre for Financial Regulation and Economic Development(CFRED) to support and facilitate research in all areas of law affecting commerce and business dealings, including the fields of banking law, capital markets, commercial law, contract law, corporate law, investment law, intellectual property, securities regulation, international trade law, tax law, and any other economically focused area of law in which a member of the CUHK Law Faculty addresses his or her research. 
CFRED organizes and holds conferences, workshops, seminars and colloquia. It manages the CFRED Working Paper Series and serves as a vehicle to organize team research projects and seek funding for the latter.
CFRED actively seeks affiliations and collaborations with leading research centres and institutes located worldwide that pursue aims similar or complementary to its own, whether those centres or institutes be in universities, the public sector or privately managed. In particular, CFRED aims to have solid links in each of four economic areas:China, Asia generally, Europe and North America.