[date]4 June 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents Anniversary Fair to Celebrate Golden Jubilee
Prof. Cheung Kwok-wai to Speak on Rhapsody on Innovation
Open to the Public[/title]
2013 marks the 50th anniversary of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). To celebrate this landmark, the University has launched the 50th Anniversary Fair on the theme ‘Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future’. It comprises a series of public lectures and roving exhibitions around town from March to November 2013. The Fair aims to give the public an introduction to CUHK’s history, culture and development, and to present its mission and vision.
The 50th Anniversary Public Lecture Series consists of eight lectures covering a wide range of interesting topics in philosophy, medicine, innovative technology, business, science, education and social science. It aims at disseminating knowledge and enlightening thought. All the lectures will be given by CUHK professors. The lectures by Prof. Leo Ou-fan Lee and Prof. Tze-wan Kwan from the Faculty of Arts, and Prof. Emily Y.Y. Chan from the Faculty of Medicine have been successfully held. Interested parties can review the lectures at www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/event-recap.
Prof. Kwok-wai Cheung to speak on the development of creative and innovative industries
The third lecture, entitled ‘Rhapsody on Innovation’, will be presented by Prof. Kwok-wai Cheung, Professor, Department of Information Engineering, CUHK. Members of the public are welcome with details as follows:
Date:
Saturday, 8 June 2013
Time:
7:00 pm
Venue:
Lecture Theatre, Hong Kong Central Library, CausewayBay, Hong Kong
Language:
Cantonese
Registration:
www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/anniversaryfair or call 3943-8893 (CUHK) or 2921-0285 (Hong Kong Public Library)
Prof. Kwok-Wai Cheung is currently a professor at the Department of Information Engineering. He received his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. from the University of Hong Kong, Yale University and Caltech respectively. Before he joined CUHK in 1992, he worked at Bell Communications Research, USA. He has made pioneering contributions in optical communications, including the first patent on wavelength selective switch (WSS) and tunable multi-wavelength filter which laid the foundation for later generations of Reconfigurable Optical Add-Drop Multiplexers (ROADMs) and have been the most important driving force for the optical communications industry in recent years. Prof. Kwok-wai Cheung will give advices on cultivating innovative mind-set of young people, and share his views on the development of creative and innovative industries. He will start with the tea drinking culture in Hong Kong, and present some weird but easy-to-understand examples of innovations from daily life incorporating with his own first-hand experience, to introduce the wonders and joy of the innovation process in a delightful and relaxed manner. The talk will touch upon science and technology, music, culture, genuine and fake innovations, as well as knowledge-based industries. Professor Cheung hopes to bring out the creativity of young people and thus give impetus to creative and innovative industries.
From 1996 to 2001, Professor Cheung served as the founding director of the Centre for Innovation and Technology with a one-time support of $24 million from CUHK to help the growth of high-tech industries in Hong Kong and facilitate the spinning off of technology start-ups from CUHK. From 1995 to 1998, he initiated the Electronics News Media and Publishing Consortium with about $7 million from the Industry Support Fund and successfully spun out Wisers Information Limited, which is now partnering with over a thousand news and media companies world-wide to deliver electronic news clippings service to thousands of companies. It has become an important platform for the liberal studies curriculum of Hong Kong schools. From 1998 to 2002, he initiated the Integrated Communications Laboratory Project and received a support of $15 million from the Innovation and Technology Fund and the local industries to develop smart phone and set-top box products.
Since 2002, Professor Cheung has focused his efforts on creative innovations and development of intellectual properties. His inventions spanned over a broad spectrum of technologies and applications, including wavelength-selective switch, tunable multi-wavelength filter, directional speaker, video-on-demand system, aircraft cabin design, converged communication system, etc. He has published over a hundred journal and conference papers and holds thirty-five international patents, including fifteen US patents.
The Third Roving Exhibition to be Held at Times Square, Causeway Bay
Following the successful exhibition at Harbour City and Plaza Hollywood, the third stop of the roving exhibition will be held at Times Square (Ground Floor Covered Piazza), Causeway Bay from 11 to 17 June. The exhibition will include four key areas: ‘CUHK’s Background’, ‘Heritage’, ‘Humanities’ and ‘Innovations’. Exhibits include historical collections of the University, as well as display panels to showcase the achievements and contributions of CUHK in the past 50 years and to present its future plans to the public. The exhibition opens daily from 10:00am to 10:00pm. Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.
CUHK hereby thanks The Wharf (Holdings) Limited subsidiaries Harbour City Estates Limited, Plaza Hollywood Limited and Times Square Limited for sponsoring the exhibition venues.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=129&amp;s=