[date]18 April 2013[/date]
[title] 'The Future of English in Asia: Perspectives on Language and Literature' – International Conference on English at the Chinese University of Hong Kong Attracts Leading International Experts on English
Open to the Public [/title]
The international conference entitled 'The Future of English in Asia: Perspectives on Language and Literature' which attracts leading international experts on English to The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be held from tomorrow (19 April) to 21 April. The event coincides with the 50th anniversary of CUHK. 
World-renowned writers, academics, and researchers on English will be joined by poets, teachers, Education Bureau representatives and members of the public in discussing the future of English in Hong Kong and across Asia. Speakers include Nicholas Ostler (author of Empires of the Word: A Language History of the World and The Last Lingua Franca: English Until The Return to Babel), Bill Ashcroft (world-renowned expert on postcolonial literature), Prof. Andy Kirkpatrick (a leading expert on World Englishes and ELT), President. Prof. Way Kuo (President of the City University of Hong Kong), Prof. Longxi Zhang (author of groundbreaking works on East-West philosophy and Chair Professor of Comparative Literature and Translation, Department of Chinese, Translation and Linguistics, City University of Hong Kong), Prof. Bob Adamson (leading expert on English language teaching and Head of International Education at HKIEd), and Louise Ho (leading Hong Kong English-language poet). There will be panels and talks on 'Language through Literature', 'World Englishes', 'English past and future - just one more Asian lingua franca', 'Models of trilingual education in China' and many more. 
With speakers from Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, Singapore, the UK, Australia, India, Vietnam, Thailand, Japan, Korea and many other countries, the conference will cover a wide variety of topics related to English literature and linguistics and English in the classroom. The Conference is open to the public and all are welcome. 
Details of the Conference are as follows: 

Date:
19-21 April, 2013 (Friday - Sunday)

Time:
10:00 am (Registration starts at 9:30 am on 19 April)

Venue:
LT9, Yasumoto International Academic Park, Chung Chi College

Guest Speakers:
Prof. Nicholas Ostler, author of Empires of the Word: A Language History of the World and The Last Lingua Franca: English Until The Return to BabelProf. Longxi Zhang, Chair Professor of Comparative Literature and Translation, Department of Chinese, Translation and Linguistics, City University of Hong KongProf. Way Kuo, President of the City University of Hong KongProf. Bill Ashcroft, Australian Professorial Fellow in the School of English, Media and Performing Arts, The University of New South Wales, AustraliaProf. Andy Fitzpatrick, Professor of Linguistics, Griffith University, AustraliaProf. Bob Adamson, Professor and Head of Department of International Education and Lifelong Learning, HKIEdLouise Ho, leading Hong Kong poet

Moderator:
Prof. Simon Haines and Prof. Michael O’Sullivan, Department of English, CUHK

The Conference will be conducted in English. Please contact Prof. Michael O’Sullivan of the Department of English of CUHK via email at osullivan@cuhk.edu.hk, or visit the website for more details :http://www.eng.cuhk.edu.hk/eng/web/articles/FutureProgrammeWebsite.pdf   
 