[date]7 March 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK and Shun Hing Group Present the Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities
Renowned Confucian Scholar Prof. Tu Weiming Speaks on the Sense of Cultural Identity in the Global Chinese Community
[/title]
To mark the 60th anniversary of the Shun Hing Group and the 50th anniversary of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) in 2013, the Shun Hing Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities has been established with a generous donation from the Shun Hing Group.  The lecture series aims at promoting cultural knowledge and scholarly pursuits in the arts and humanities. Distinguished scholars from four major areas, Music, Drama and Film, Literature and Art, as well as Philosophy and Thinking, will be invited to give public lectures. The first lecture of the series was presented by Prof. Tu Weiming, a world-renowned scholar in Confucianism on 'A Truly Meaningful "We" in Cultural China: How Is It Possible?' today (7 March) on CUHK campus. The lecture attracted an audience of over 450, including CUHK staff and students, members of education and public sectors. 
In his lecture, Professor Tu shared his views on the sense of cultural identity in the global Chinese Community. The Chinese in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and in the global community have endeavored to embrace and to advocate their precious culture, while building a strong sense of cultural identity. He hoped such a cultural identity could be established in a humanistic spirit of freedom, diversity, inclusiveness and self-reflection, and most important, incorporating a vision of communal, critical, rational and benevolent self-consciousness. 
Since its establishment, CUHK has committed itself as much to teaching and academic research as to upholding the humanistic spirit. Through a wide selection of programmes on offer in general education, exchange and social services programmes, as well as different kinds of lectures and conferences. CUHK strives to encourage students and the public to improve their humanistic quality by thinking critically and appreciating different cultures and philosophies. The Shun Hing Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities launched by CUHK and the Shun Hing Group aims to inspire participants to understand and appreciate the art of living, to review their current state and explore the prospects, so that they become all-round global citizens with a strong sense of social responsibility and a heart to serve. 
The Shun Hing Group has been a staunch supporter of CUHK since the 1960's. Over the years, major donations have been received to finance scholarships, exchange and training programmes at the University, as well as the Internet-based Robotics Inter-School Competition to nurture diverse and creative talents. Thanks to the generous support of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Chair Professorship of Mathematics was set up at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences; various laboratories, Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering, and William Mong Eye Centre of Tsinghua University &amp; CUHK were also established for engineering and medical developments. 
Biography of Prof. Tu Weiming 
Prof. Tu Weiming, Director of the Institute for Advanced Humanistic Studies at Peking University and Research Professor at Harvard University, was born in Kunming in China. He received his Bachelor of Arts from Tunghai University in Taiwan in 1961, Master and Doctoral degrees from Harvard University in 1963 and 1968 respectively. Professor Tu taught Chinese intellectual history, philosophies of China, and Confucian humanism at Harvard University from 1981 to 2010. He was a visiting professor at Tunghai University in Taiwan, Princeton University in the United States, University of California at Berkeley, Peking University inChina, Taiwan University, CUHK, and L'Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes in Paris. He also holds honorary professorships from Zhejiang, Sun Yat-sen and Renmin universities, and the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, all in China. 
Professor Tu has been awarded honorary degrees at the universities of Lehigh, Michigan State (United States), Shandong (China), Tunghai (Taiwan), Lingnan (Hong Kong), King's College (London), Macau University, and Soka University (Japan). He was invited by the United Nations to be a Member of the Group of Eminent and International Advisors of Rahman University in Malaysia. Professor Tu is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the recipient of Lifelong Achievement Award by the American Humanist Society. He has authored nine books in Chinese and English, more than a hundred articles on the modern transformation of Confucian humanism, and a five-volume collection of his work in Chinese. 
About Shun Hing Group
Established in 1953, the Shun Hing Group is the sole agent for Panasonic products in Hong Kong and Macau manufactured by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. (now known as Panasonic Corporation). Over the past 60 years, the Group has remained a firm Hong Kong market leader in their field. In addition to serving as sole agent for home appliances, audio-visual products, telecommunications systems, business equipment and office furniture, the Shun Hing Group is also involved in engineering, contracting and electrical appliance servicing. Logistics, advertising production, system installation and maintenance, as well as property investment and management in China are among the Group's other core activities. 
The Shun Hing Group has around 1,800 employees and is committed to its mission of working in pursuit of quality and excellence to develop a 'total quality' corporate culture based on continual improvement. In 2008, the Group won a Corporate Certificate awarded by HKQAA that recognizes its achievement of having all operating companies of the Group to implement ISO9001 Quality Management System. With unceasing efforts, the Group has been implementing Green Office Practices to protect environment. Six Group companies have achieved certification to ISO14001 Environmental Management System with the rest to follow suit. 
True to the spirit of give and take, the Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund was established in 1984. The Fund has donated approximately HK$500 million towards projects in Hong Kong and China that benefit education, health care, recreation, sports and environmental protection over the years.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=111&amp;s=