[date]20 March 2013[/date]
[title]Faster Treatment Better Results
Milestone laid for cancer treatment as State-of-the-art TrueBeam System commences service in public hospital[/title]
The Li Ka Shing Foundation (LKSF), the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Prince of Wales Hospital (PWH) are pleased to announce that PWH is the first public hospital in Hong Kong to offer the TrueBeam System, the most advanced linear accelerator and an innovative radiotherapy technology that represents a huge leap forward in terms of precision, pinpoint accuracy and fast delivery of radiation to cancer treatment.
TrueBeam and its technology
TrueBeam is fast, it uniquely integrates advanced imaging and motion management technologies within a sophisticated new architecture that makes it possible to deliver treatments more quickly while monitoring and compensating for tumor motion.  That allows for new possibilities in the treatment of lung, liver, breast, prostate, head and neck, spine as well as other cancers.  What it means for the patients   With TrueBeam, patients will be treated in a shorter delivery time, it will also improve treatment outcomes by delivering radiation with accuracy and comfort, optimising local control with minimal risk for normal tissue injury.  The practitioners and researchers  Prof Joseph J Y Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, expressed his gratitude to LKSF Chairman Mr Li Ka-shing who has, over the years, always been an ardent supporter of CUHK’s effort to better serve grassroots citizens who are reliant on public medical services.  “On behalf of the University and all benefited patients, I would like to convey my heartfelt thanks to Mr Li for his care for the well-being of the general public and continuous support for education and medical development in Hong Kong.  I would also like to thank the Hospital Authority and the Prince of Wales Hospital for their unfailing support in launching the service,” said Prof Sung.
The authorities 
The Chairman of the Hospital Authority, Mr Anthony Wu, was deeply grateful for LKSF’s donation of the cutting-edge TrueBeam system. He remarked, “The system, which is the first being installed in public hospitals in Hong Kong, would benefit cancer patients by offering faster treatments, enhanced precision, and faster imaging at lower doses. It is also conducive to the advancement of clinical research and radiotherapy in Hong Kong.”  Since the inception of the CUHK Faculty of Medicine and its teaching hospital PWH, Mr Li Ka-shing has been offering staunch support in enhancing their training, research and health care facilities, with which thousands of medical practitioners have been nurtured and countless patients cured.  The donor   The HK$40 million gift to CUHK for the TrueBeam project is part of LKSF’s HK$300 million “Love HK Your Way!” campaign.
Commenting on the commencement of TrueBeam services, Mr Li said supporting medical services and research has always been one of his foundation’s core focus.
Mr Li said, “Advances in health care technology will no doubt shape the future of medical care.  We are in momentous time, technologically and medically well-trained doctors, innovative and evidence based data driven systems will empower and inform practitioners and patients alike, offering us the opportunity to enjoy precise and best care within affordable cost.”
A faster, safer and more precise approach of cancer treatment The TrueBeam system redefines radiotherapy and is a technological leap forward.  The high dose-rate capacity allows it to deliver radiation as much as four to eight times faster than conventional radiotherapy.  This is ideal for the new therapeutic approach in which fewer treatments and a larger dose are used.  In addition, its high-definition beam shaping and modulation capacity, as well as sophisticated imaging and motion management systems enable safer and more effective treatment of tumors adjacent to critical normal organs, such as mobile tumors in the lungs and livers, breast cancers, prostate cancers, head and neck cancers, or spine tumors.
Facilitating rigorous cancer research TrueBeam enhances the capacity and capability in image guidance, tumor motion management, stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as RapidArc service, which is conducive to the advancement of clinical research of CUHK’s Faculty of Medicine.  Its introduction has facilitated a number of leading-edge cancer research projects and some research results have been presented in international conferences recently.  Clinically, with the new system, the PWH has initiated new treatment researches in lung, liver, pancreas in collaboration with Stanford University and Shantou University.
About the Li Ka Shing Foundation
The Li Ka Shing Foundation was established in 1980 by global entrepreneur and philanthropist Li Ka-shing.  Mr Li considers the Foundation to be his "third son" and has pledged one-third of his assets to it.  To date, the Foundation has granted over HK$12.8 billion (US$1.64 billion) in charitable donations, approximately 90 per cent in support of education reform initiatives and medical services in Greater China region.
The Foundation supports projects that promote social progress through expanding access to quality education and medical services and research, encouraging cultural diversity and community involvement.  For more information, please visit: http://www.lksf.org .