[date]15 May 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Community-based Environmental Education
Open to the Public
[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia will hold a forum entitled 'Community-based Environmental Education' at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) next Friday (24 May). At this forum under the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series', experts from the environmental and education fields will pool their experiences and insights into community-based environmental education. 
Mr LAM Chiu-ying, Chairman of Environmental Campaign Committee and former Director of Hong Kong Observatory was invited as keynote speaker of the forum.  He will share views and vision on the creation, through environmental education, of a positive and nurturing community, in which the community members demonstrate respect and reverence for the environment and act together to improve the environment.  Dr YAU Wing-kwong, Director of Tai Po Environmental Association; Mr YU Tai-wai, Principal of Yan Chai Hospital No.2 Secondary School; and Mr YEUNG Man-yui, a Member of Health and Environment Committee of Sha Tin District Council, will also share their experiences and practices in environmental education and interact with the participants. 
The forum will be conducted in Cantonese. Members of the public are welcome and admission is free. Limited seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis.  Interested parties please register at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
Rising environmental awareness, together with the proactive policies implemented by the government, has inspired the community to advocate for environmental protection.  In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in pro-environment activities, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia organizes the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series'.  Experts and practitioners from different fields and the public are involved to confer on the best ways to deal with environmental challenges and impacts of climate change. 
Also under the programme is the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change, scheduled to open in late 2013, to present Dr Rebecca Lee's valuable 'Three Poles' collection (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest), innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust's endeavours contributing to the improvement of the environment. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.