[date]7 July 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK I‧CARE Programme - Christian Zheng Sheng College Service Project 
Offers Valuable Learning Experience for Students[/title]
The I‧CARE Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Christian Zheng Sheng College (ZS) have jointly organized the 'I‧CARE Programme - Christian Zheng Sheng College Service Project', in which students of both institutions are offered the chance to get real experience of each other's campus life, and to be inspired to pursue their own aspirations. 
A valuable exchange experience 
In the programme, ZS students were able to get a feel of university life through various activities CUHK student volunteers arranged for them, including sports games, formal lecture, facility visit and campus tour. It was a rare and eye-opening experience for ZS students and some of them expressed their wish to get into a university after the visit. 
To have a deeper understanding of ZS students and their lives, the CUHK group also spent three days at the ZS campus located at Chi Ma Wan in Lantau Island. They followed the routine of ZS students, including cooking, cleaning, studying, doing all sorts of manual work for campus improvement, sleeping in tents and having cold water shower. During the three days, they listened to the stories of ZS students, understanding their difficulties faced and overcome to turn over a new leaf. They regarded the visit as a unique learning experience, both unforgettable and valuable, that allowed them to have a deeper reflection on various social problems such as drug abuse among Hong Kong youth. 
Building long-term relationship 
One of the major objectives of the I‧CARE Programme is to facilitate long-term and continuous service projects so that students will develop strong social awareness and bring sustainable impact to society. Participants of the 'I‧CARE Programme - Christian Zheng Sheng College Service Project' will commit themselves to regular visits to ZS campus to give tutoring sessions to ZS students and help with their school improvement projects. 
About I‧CARE Programme 
With the slogan 'Aspiration through reflection; Renewal through civility', the I‧CARE Programme aims to promote students' holistic development through social and civic engagements in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas countries, and to raise their humanistic and civic awareness. Led by the Steering Committee for Promoting Personal Development through Social and Civic Engagement, the programme adopts an integrated approach and supports students to participate in five programmes, including: 1) Social Service Project Scheme, 2) Research and Study Scheme, 3) NGO Internship Scheme, 4) Social Enterprise Scheme, and 5) University Lecture on Civility. 