[date]11 April 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents Anniversary Fair and Public Lecture Series to Celebrate Golden Jubilee
Prof. Emily Chan to Share Experience in Promoting Disaster Preparedness for Ethnic Minorities in China
Open to the Public
[/title]
2013 marks the 50th anniversary of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). To celebrate this landmark, the University has launched the 50th Anniversary Fair on the theme 'Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future'. It comprises a roving exhibition around town and a series of public lectures from March to November 2013. The Fair aims to give the public an introduction to CUHK's history, culture and development, and to present its mission and vision. 
The 50th Anniversary Public Lecture Series consists of eight lectures covering a wide range of interesting topics in philosophy, medicine, innovative technology, business, science, education and social science. It aims at the dissemination of knowledge and enlightening thought. All the lectures will be given by CUHK professors. The first lecture by Prof. Leo Ou-fan Lee and Prof. Tze-wan Kwan has been successfully held in March. The video of the lecture is available at www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/event-recap. 
Prof. Emily Chan to share Experiences in Promoting Disaster Preparedness for Ethnic Minorities in China 
The second lecture, entitled 'Evidence-based health &amp; medical intervention: How do we do our work in rural ethnic minority communities in China?', will be presented by Prof. Emily Y.Y. Chan, Associate Professor, the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK. Members of the public are welcome with details as follows:

Date:
Friday, 19 April 2013

Time:
7:00 pm

Venue:
Lecture Theatre, Hong Kong Central Library,CausewayBay,Hong Kong

Language:
Cantonese

Registration:
www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/anniversaryfair or call 3943-8893 (CUHK) or 2921-0285 (HKPL)

Being an expert in medical humanitarian aid, Prof. Emily Chan is deeply concerned about disaster and health problem at regions with scare resources. In China, non-Han Chinese constitute up to 8% of the population and disproportionally settle in disaster-prone areas or terrains with extreme climate conditions. With limited community resources, these population subgroups do not always perceive the importance of disaster preparedness and are often left to fend for their own survival. 
Prof. Emily Chan launched an 'Ethnic Minority Health Project' together with her colleagues and students in CUHK to empower the most marginalized section of the Chinese society with evidence-based public health interventions. In the past few years they have been trailing the rugged landscapes of Gansu, Sichuan, Hainan, Guizhou and Guangxi provinces to build disaster and health resilience in local communities. In this public lecture, Professor Chan will share the experience of knowledge transfer, the passion and challenge of working in these neglected pockets in China.
Prof. Emily Chan qualified both as a biomedical engineer and a physician and had undergone academic training in Johns Hopkins University, Harvard School of Public Health, the University of Hong Kong and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Professor Chan joined the School of Public Health and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK in 2006 and has been teaching and conducting research in climate change and health, disaster medicine, injury and violence, research methodology, and assessment and evaluation for medical humanitarian assistance in resources deficit settings. She is currently an Associate Professor, as well as the Project-in-Charge of the Public Health Humanitarian Initiatives and Convener of the Climate Change and Health Study Group. In addition, she is an honorary research fellow (emerging infections and emergency preparedness) at Nuffield department of clinical medicine, University of Oxford. Apart from being a public health expert, she has been involved in research projects in humanitarian actions and development and has wide ranging experience with NGOs. She was awarded the Hong Kong Humanity Award in 2007. 
In 2011, Professor Chan established the Collaborating Centre for Oxford University and CUHK (CCOUC) for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response and serves as the Director. The Centre collaborates with various regional and international institutes to examine human health outcomes in post-disaster or disaster-prone setting, disaster preparedness and response planning, clinical effectiveness of psychological first aid, medical humanitarianism and the relationship of climate change and community help-seeking behaviour and risk perception.
The Second Roving Exhibition to be Held at Plaza Hollywood, Diamond Hill 
Following the successful opening at Harbour City in March, the second stop of the roving exhibition will be held at Plaza Hollywood (Level 1, Stars Atrium), Diamond Hill from 15-19 April. The exhibition will include four key areas: 'CUHK's Background', 'Heritage', 'Humanities' and 'Innovations'. Historical collections such as the 'Report of the Fulton Commission' which recommended the establishment of CUHK in 1963, and the Degree/Diploma examination questions of CUHK in 1964; as well as interactive games and panels to illustrate the latest development of the University will be displayed. The exhibition opens daily from 11:00am to 9:00pm. Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=122&amp;s=
 