[date]15 March 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Kick-off Ceremony cum
First Roving Exhibition Held at Harbour City, Tsim Sha Tsui Today
[/title]
2013 marks the Golden Jubilee of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). To celebrate this landmark, the University launches the 50th Anniversary Fair starting today to November which comprises a roving exhibition around town.  The exhibition aims to showcase the achievements and contributions of CUHK in the past 50 years and to present its future plans to the public.  The 50th Anniversary Fair Kick-off Ceremony officiated by Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President; Prof. Michael Hui, Chairman, 50th Anniversary Celebration Co-ordinating and Working Committee and Pro-Vice-Chancellor; and Prof. Hau Kit Tai, Chairman, 50th Anniversary Fair Steering Committee and Pro-Vice- Chancellor was held today (15 March) at Harbour City, Tsim Sha Tsui.  Many students, teachers, alumni, friends and partners of CUHK also attended the ceremony today and shared the joyful spirit of the 50th anniversary celebrations. 
At the Kick-off Ceremony, Prof. Joseph Sung said, ‘At its inception CUHK had three colleges and 1,395 students, and about a hundred academics. Over the past five decades, vested with the mission to combine the tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West, CUHK has strived and persevered amidst considerable hardships, plodding along in heavy steps. Nowadays there are nine colleges and eight faculties, and a student population over twenty thousand strong including the postgraduates and we are proud of our achievements. We sincerely call upon all members of the CUHK family to take an active part in the celebration activities. We also hope we could share the joy of the 50thAnniversary to the community.  To this end, we have organized the 50thAnniversary Fair which comprises a roving exhibition and a series of public lectures.  The Anniversary Fair will give the public an introduction to CUHK's history, culture and development. It will also present the University's mission and vision.’
The first roving exhibition starts from today to 20 March at Ocean Terminal Main Concourse from 10 am to 10 pm. Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.  The second roving exhibition will be held at Plaza Hollywood, Diamond Hill from 15-19 April. 
The theme of CUHK's Golden Jubilee is 'Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future'.  Contents of the roving exhibition include four key areas: 'CUHK’s Background', 'Heritage', 'Humanities' and 'Innovations'.  Exhibition panels, informative materials and interactive games will be displayed to illustrate many of our teachers and students, in successive generations, who have left their distinguished and indelible marks on regional, national and even international history. The exhibition also aims to demonstrate how the teachers and students of CUHK shoulder their responsibilities as citizens of the world when the call of benevolent humanism beckons.
The Anniversary Fair also features eight public lectures to be given by distinguished CUHK professors. For more details of 50th Anniversary Fair, please visit http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/en/anniversaryfair.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;id=113&amp;s=