[date]9 July 2013[/date]
[title]Scholar-elect of the Esther Yewpick Lee Millennium Scholarship to Help Others through Music[/title]
Miss Jamie Wong Jing Men, a graduating student from Chung Chi College at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) majoring in Music, has been awarded the Esther Yewpick Lee Millennium Scholarship for pursuing the Master of Studies in Musicology at the University of Oxford in the academic year 2013/14. 
'Since a very young age, I have been able to reproduce on the keyboard sounds that I have heard. Over the years, I have been honing my ability to compose and arrange music. Music has brought me unparalleled joy and gratification, and I have known a long time ago that it would be a companion that I would never want to live without,' said Jamie. 
She continued, 'My love for music has brought me to the Music Department of CUHK. Liberated and fuelled by the excitement of being able to pursue what interested me, I have immersed myself into my studies with fervour and found myself feeling inspired and immensely fulfilled.' 
Jamie not only enjoys music but also utilizes its power to influence others by coaching a group of young inmates at the Pik Uk Correctional Institution as a volunteer music tutor since 2010.  She teaches them to play various instruments and coaches them to play as a band. She said, 'The inmates show great diligence in learning and discipline in practice. It is very gratifying to see that they enjoy the fruits of their effort as they steadily progress in playing their instruments through hard work and determination.' 
From this experience, Jamie has become a firm believer in the power of music in helping the socially disadvantaged, and in being a vehicle for social advancement. It is her aspiration that one day she can help establish a system in Hong Kong, or even in other Southeast Asian countries, similar to the El Sistema, the monumental music education programme in Venezuela for those who could benefit from musical training and ensemble playing but have little or no access to it. 
In accordance with the memorandum of the Esther Yewpick Lee Millennium Scholarship, awards are granted to candidates who meet the academic criteria, have a respect for humanity, possess a curious mind, moral integrity and a spirit of adventure, and demonstrate the potential to make a contribution to the well-being of the community. The Selection Committee has found Jamie an ideal candidate who has fulfilled all these conditions. 
The Esther Yewpick Lee Millennium Scholarship, tenable at the University of Oxford, was established with funds from the estate of the late Dr. Esther Yewpick Lee, whose family has had strong connections with and affection for both CUHK and Oxford. The award fully sponsors the scholar for studying a postgraduate programme, covering the University and College fees at Oxford, return economy class air fare and an annual personal allowance which is expected to take care of board and lodging and other maintenance costs, for a maximum period of 3 years.
CUHK offers different types of scholarships, prizes and academic awards to undergraduate students each year.  Apart from Honours at Entrance and Admission Scholarship, University Exchange Scholarship would also be offered to support outstanding admittees for their participation in outgoing exchange programmes.
The results of Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education will be announced next Monday, 15 July.  JUPAS candidates can modify their programme choices during the assigned timeslot from 16 to 18 July.  Application results will be released at the JUPAS website on 9 August.  For enquiries on admissions to CUHK via JUPAS, please contact the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid at 3943-8951 or 3943-8947.