[date]17 April 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK and UBC Jointly Established the International Centre on Nursing Leadership
A Breeding Ground for Nurse Leaders
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong – University of British Columbia International Centre on Nursing Leadership (the Centre) held its Inauguration Ceremony today (17 April) with over 250 local and overseas health care and nursing leaders, senior government officials and policy makers in attendance. The Centre is an initiative pioneered by the nursing schools of both universities as a breeding ground for nurse leaders to address the immediate and projected needs for the development of effective nurse leaders in Hong Kong and its neighboring regions. 
Officiating guests of the ceremony included Prof. Huang Jiefu, Vice Chairman, Subcommittee of Education, Science, Culture, Health and Sports, the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, The People's Republic of China (PRC); Dr. Wang Liji, Deputy Director-General, Office for Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, National Health and Family Planning Commission, PRC; Ms. Guo Yanhong, Deputy Director-General, Department of Medical Administration, National Health and Family Planning Commission, PRC; Dr. Ko Wing Man, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR; Dr. The Hon. Joseph K. L. Lee, Legislative Councillor (Health Services); Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President, CUHK; Prof. T.F. Fok, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President, CUHK; Mr. Anthony T.Y. Wu, Chairman, Hospital Authority; Ms. Jane W.H. Liu, Chief Manager (Nursing), Hospital Authority; Ms. Lydia S.M. Cheung, Principal Nursing Officer, Department of Health; and Co-Directors of the Centre - Prof. Diana Tze Fan Lee, Chair Professor of Nursing and Director, The Nethersole School of Nursing at CUHK and Prof. Suzanne Campbell, Director, School of Nursing at University of British Columbia. 
The Centre is committed to grooming senior nurses in Hong Kong and its neighbouring regions to become capable leaders and managers to support effective care delivery and sustainable health care development, tackling the tremendous challenges nurses are facing nowadays. It will launch an array of educational initiatives, such as the advanced diploma programme in nursing management and leadership, as well as leadership seminars, workshops and forms covering a wide range of topics on nursing management delivered by local, national and international experts. It will also undertake leadership research projects with national and international partners, and establish an internet leadership resource centre to foster networking and collaboration.      
Prof. Huang Jiefu congratulated on the establishment of the Centre, 'As a breeding ground for nurse leaders, I hope the Centre will play a leading role in nurturing effective nurse leaders to meet the needs of Hong Kong and beyond.'
'I am sure the Centre will serve as a bridge connecting nurse leaders in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas to strengthen their collaboration in the development of nursing management and leadership,' said Ms. Guo Yanhong. 
Dr. Ko Wing Man expressed his expectation on the Centre, 'I sincerely hope that the Centre will contribute to the sustainable development of nursing services and health care system in Hong Kong.  I would like to thank CUHK and UBC for their foresight and Prof. Diana Lee and Prof. Suzanne Campbell for their leadership.' 
'The Centre will serve as a learning platform for potential nurse leaders as well as a knowledge hub for developing and translating research results into real practice. It will also encourage local, national and international collaborations in nursing leadership development,' said Prof. Diana Lee. 
For more information about the Centre and its forthcoming activities, please visit the website: http://www.nur.cuhk.edu.hk. 
 About the CUHK Nethersole School of Nursing 
The Nethersole School of Nursing, formerly the Department of Nursing, was established in the Faculty of Medicine in 1991. It is the first university department of nursing in Hong Kong. The primary focus of the School is on high quality nursing education and research so that nurses can make a major contribution to improving health for the people of Hong Kong and to facilitating the development of nursing profession.