[date]23 May 2013[/date]
[title]The Ninth Chinese Universities Shakespeare Festival Performance Finals
Free Admission for Schools and Public
[/title]
The Ninth Chinese Universities Shakespeare Festival, jointly organized by the Department of English and the Office of the Arts Administrator at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and sponsored by the Dr. Tien Chang Lin Technology Innovation Foundation, will hold its performance finals at Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, CUHK, from 4 to 6 June at 3:00pm. Competing teams are going to present selected scenes from Shakespeare's renowned plays in innovative and entertaining ways to all audiences. 
On the previous seven occasions, the Chinese Universities Shakespeare Festival proved to be an ideal platform for students to experience the drama and imagination of the finest English poet who ever lived. It also successfully promoted English learning and cultural exchange between East and West.
Twelve finalists out of 44 teams survived from the first round competition held in January, including Fudan University, Jishou University, Lingnan University, Northeast Normal University, Shenzhen University, Soochow University, Taiwan, Southeast University, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Xiamen University of Technology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Zhejiang University, and Zhongnan University of Economics and Law. 
To enrich educational experience for participating students, master classes were arranged for all competing teams. The classes, conducted by professional instructors to help each team identify areas of strength and areas that could be enhanced with new approaches, were held over three days in last December and January in Beijing and Hong Kong. 
The adjudicators of the Festival are internationally acclaimed English scholars and theatre professionals, including Professor John Gillies, expert on Shakespeare in East Asia and Professor of English, University of Essex; and Professor Peter Holbrook, Shakespeare scholar and Professor at the University of Queensland; and Professor Tony Turner, drama scholar and the former Ethel Tory Head of Drama, Australian National University. 
The champion team will enjoy a one-week trip to see Shakespeare performed professionally on the stage at Stratford and in London's West End. Other winning teams will be awarded electronic products generously donated by Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund. 
Seat reservations have been made available to all secondary schools and the general public. Admissions are free. Interested parties may call 3943 1983 or e-mail shakespeare@cuhk.edu.hk for details. Free shuttle buses will be running between University Station and Sir Run Run Shaw Hall from 2:30 pm and after the performances. 