[date]26 April 2013[/date]
[title]Renowned Economist Professor C.Y. Cyrus Chu to Host Lecture Series by Academia Sinica Academicians at CUHK
Now Open for Public Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) takes great pleasure in announcing that Professor C. Y. Cyrus Chu, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of Economics, Academia Sinica (AS), will visit CUHK between 7 and 9 May 2013 under the 3rd Academia Sinica Academicians Visit Programme. Professor Chu will deliver public lecture and meet with CUHK representatives to discuss collaboration opportunities and to strengthen the partnership between CUHK and AS in the fields of humanities and social science. 
Apart from visiting the Department of Economics and relevant research units at CUHK, Professor Chu will give a lecture entitled 'The Evolution of Human Features: An Economist's View' on 8 May to share his insights and exchange views with members of CUHK and the public. The lecture will be conducted in English. For more information and registration, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2013/. 
Professor C. Y. Cyrus Chu, born in 1955, received his B.A (Law) from Taiwan University, and M.A and PhD (economics) from the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor). Starting from 1985, he began to serve as a faculty of Economics of the Taiwan University and a research fellow of the Institute of Economics of Academia Sinica. His research interest includes demographic economics, family economics, public finance, and economic analysis of law. He has published two professional monographs: Population Dynamics: A New Economic Approach (1997) and Understanding Chinese Families (2009), both by the Oxford University Press. These two monographs have been well-received by the academic community, and the latter has been forwarded by Nobel Laureate James J. Heckman. In addition, Professor Chu has published more than 100 articles in professional journals including American Economic Review, Journal of Political Economy, Demography, Economica, RAND Journal of Economics, Review of Economics and Statistics, Marketing Science, Journal of Theoretical Biology, etc. In 1998, Professor Chu was elected as the then youngest Academician of Academia Sinica. In 2003, he was granted the Presidential Science Award of Taiwan, and is still one of the only two recipients in the field of social science and humanities in Taiwan. Professor Chu was elected as the member of the Third-World Academy of Science in 2010. 
Details of the lecture are as follows:

Speaker:
Professor C. Y. Cyrus Chu, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of Economics, Academia Sinica

Topic:
The Evolution of Human Features: An Economist's View

Moderator:
Professor Zhang Junsen, Chairman, Department of Economics, CUHK

Time:
4:00-5:00 pm, 8 May 2013 (Wednesday)

Venue:
LT8, 3/F, Cheng Yu Tung Building

Language:
English

Registration:
http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2013/

Enquiries:
3943-8729
