[date]21 May 2013[/date]
[title]CU Chorus 40th Anniversary Concert ‘Northern Lights: Music of Ola Gjeilo’
An illustrious choral journey with warmth and aura
[/title]
Established in 1972, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus (CU Chorus) is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year. Its spirit of blending tradition with modernity and fusing Eastern and Western cultures has been as evident as the University's. Thanks to the effort of former conductors, the chorus has taken shape gradually and healthily. Under the leadership of current Music Director and Conductor Leon Chu, CU Chorus now stands at the frontier of Hong Kong's choral field, striving to deliver the best choral music to the city with its diverse and robust repertoire. To celebrate its 40th anniversary, CU Chorus will present an anniversary concert 'Northern Lights: Music of Ola Gjeilo' at 8pm on 11 June (Tuesday) in the Concert Hall of Hong Kong City Hall. Tickets are now available at URBTIX outlets. 
This concert will feature the works of Ola Gjeilo, a renowned contemporary Norwegian composer. The clarity and vastness of Gjeilo's works will serve as a fitting highlight to CU Chorus' illustrious journey in the last four decades. Born in 1978, Mr. Gjeilo has secured a central position of global choral repertoire with the emotive power and splendour of his music. His unique craftsmanship in transforming simple musical elements into large-scale composition with great beauty makes him highly iconic. CU Chorus will perform five of Mr. Gjeilo's most famous pieces, including the Hong Kong première of his magnum opus Dark Night of the Soul, written for eight-part choir, piano and string quartet. This work will see the collaboration of CU Chorus and RTHK Quartet for the first time. 
One of CU Chorus' core missions is to advocate development of Hong Kong choral repertoire. Continuing with the tradition, this year CU Chorus commissions two new works from Hong Kong composers: Frozen Tears II by Lokyin Tang and The Blossom by Ng Wah-hei, which will be world-premièred in this concert. Cherishing the past as much as the present, CU Chorus will also bring back to the stage five pieces selected from 'People's Choices 1972–2012', an online polling with over 300 participants voting for the most memorable and definitive works in CU Chorus' history. 
For programme enquiries, please call Mr Roger Fong at 6030 5684 or email cuchorus@cuchorus.org.hkURBTIX ticketing hotline: 2734 9009Online ticket booking: www.urbtix.hkFor more information, please visit our website: www.cuchorus.org.hk
The Chinese University of Hong Kong ChorusMusic Director and Conductor: Leon ChuWith 40 years' pursuit of excellence, CU Chorus has become one of the best local university choirs in Hong Kong. With a global vision, CU Chorus has performed not only on the local stage, but also in various cities in southern China and southeast Asia. With its high quality performances and innovative programmes, CU Chorus is dedicated to promote the art of choral music to the general public.