[date]28 July 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Held Anniversary Fair Public Lecture Series to Celebrate Golden Jubilee
Prof. Chan Chi Fai Andrew spoke on Successful Branding Strategies[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented a public lecture at Hong Kong Central Library yesterday (27 July). It was the fourth session of CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture Series. Prof. Chan Chi Fai Andrew from the Department of Marketing, Faculty of Business Administration at CUHK delivered a lecture entitled ‘Strategies for Building Successful Brand Image’ to introduce concepts of branding, and discussed how to build successful brand image.  The lecture drew about 200 participants, including academics, students, alumni and members of the public. 
In the face of intense competition, companies need to actively deploy branding strategies in addition to improving service quality. This will help them stand out in the market and realize a sustainable development. During the lecture, Professor Chan introduced important concepts and theories in branding and identified key strategic issues for building brand image. A brand is not just about logo or a name; it represents complete business identity. Therefore, a successful brand is vital to the company’s development. However, building a successful brand image can be a very difficult task due to the challenges in the process. Companies must tackle the challenges to develop its unique image and identify a distinctive position. Professor Chan also discussed how to map out branding strategies in order to meet present and future challenges.
Professor Chan graduated from CUHK in 1977. He then obtained his MBA and PhD from The University of California at Berkeley and CUHK respectively. He is an expert in strategic marketing, cross-cultural marketing, Chinese marketing and a professional business negotiator. At present, he is Professor in the Department of Marketing and Director of the Executive MBA Programme at CUHK. He is also the College Head of Shaw College of CUHK. Professor Chan has a great passion for teaching and was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award in 2001 and 2009. Since 2003, he has hosted two radio/ TV programmes on topics related to management for Radio Television Hong Kong. Through the programmes, he talked with senior executives on business management.
Professor Chan has been active in participating in public service. From 1999 to 2005, he was Chairman of the Hong Kong Consumer Council while 2004 to 2010, he was Chairman of the Hong Kong Deposit Protection Board; and from 2005 to 2012 he was a Member of the Electoral Affairs Commission. Currently, he is Chairman of Chinese Medicine Council of Hong Kong and Process Review Committee of Hong Kong Monetary Authority, and Committee Member of Clearing and Settlement Systems Appeals Tribunal of Hong Kong Monetary Authority and Member of the Chinese Medicine Development Committee. In recognition of his distinguished public and community service, he was appointed as a Justice of the Peace and awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong SAR Government.
About CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture Series
To celebrate 50th anniversary, CUHK has launched the 50th Anniversary Fair on the theme of ‘Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future’. The Fair comprises a series of public lectures and roving exhibitions, which lasts from March to November this year. It aims to give the public an introduction to CUHK’s history, culture and development, and to present its mission and vision. The 50th Anniversary Public Lecture Series consists of eight lectures, covering a wide range of interesting topics in philosophy, medicine, innovative technology, business, science, education and social science. It aims at disseminating knowledge and enlightening thought. All the lectures will be given by CUHK professors. Besides Professor Chan, the lectures by Prof. Leo Ou-fan Lee and Prof. Tze-wan Kwan from the Faculty of Arts, Prof. Emily Y.Y. Chan from the Faculty of Medicine and Prof. Cheung Kwok Wai from the Department of Information Engineering have also been successfully held. Interested parties can review the lectures at www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/event-recap.
For more information on the 50th anniversary of CUHK, please visit: http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/en
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=132&amp;s=
 