[date]16 August 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK to Hold the International Conference and Public Forum to Discuss Climate Change Challenge and Its Lastest Research Findings[/title]
To share and exchange scientific findings and technological breakthroughs in the broad discipline of atmosphere, oceanography, climate change and Earth system sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Chinese-American Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (COAA) will jointly organize 'the 6th International Conference on Atmosphere, Ocean and Climate Change', from 19 to 21 August 2013 at Esther Lee Building, CUHK.  The Conference is made possible through the generous funding support of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust, and is hosted by CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia).  Co-organizers include the Department of Geography and Resource Management of CUHK and the Hong Kong Meteorological Society (HKMS). 
Over 170 practitioners, researchers and educators from around the world who are engaged in research on atmosphere, ocean and climate change will present their latest researches and insights on eight thematic sessions, including Climate Change and Our Actions; Asian Monsoon; Aerosol and Climate; Cloud and Precipitation; Weather Forecasting and Data Assimilation; Ocean, Air-Sea Interaction and Climate; Climate Variability and Modeling; and Remote Sensing.  Please visit http://www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk for details of the Conference. 
On the third day of the Conference (21 August), Gaia will also hold a public forum titled 'Climate Change: A Global Challenge and Its Latest Situation' with the aim of reaching out the wider community on the topic of climate change.  At this forum under the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series', experts from different disciplines will have discussion on the current situation of climate change and how to meet the challenge.  The forum is also a side event of 'the 6th International Conference on Atmosphere, Ocean and Climate Change'. 
Mr SHUN Chi-ming, Director of Hong Kong Observatory, will be the keynote speaker of the forum.  He will share his views on climate change as a global challenge.  Dr Eddy Wai-choi LEE, a science writer and member of the Science Museum Advisory Panel, and Prof. Emily Ying-yang CHAN, Director of the Collaborating Centre for Oxford University and CUHK for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response (CCOUC) and WWF Climate Witness, will share their opinions on the topic with the participants. 
Interested parties please register for the forum at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.  The forum will be conducted in Cantonese and admission is free.  Limited seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
Rising environmental awareness, together with the proactive policies implemented by the government, has inspired the community to advocate for environmental protection.  In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in pro-environment activities, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia organizes the 'Environment and Climate Change Forum Series'.  Experts and practitioners from different fields and the public are involved to confer on the best ways to deal with environmental challenges and impacts of climate change. 
Also under the programme is the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change, scheduled to open in late 2013, to present Dr Rebecca Lee's valuable "Three Poles" collection (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest), innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust's endeavours contributing to the improvement of the environment. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.
 