[date]31 October 2013[/date]
[title]An Engaging Discussion between Experienced Social Service Workers and CUHK Students to Examine the Feasibility of Community Service[/title]
In recognition of the students' efforts to engage with social services in Hong Kong, the Mainland and overseas, the I‧CARE Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) organised its first Service Project Community Forum – 'An Examination on Youth Volunteers' Engagements'. Student groups were invited to share their service experiences in local projects sponsored by 'CUHK—Hang Seng I.CARE Local Service Projects Scheme' and other non-local projects. The Forum was chaired by Prof. Joyce Lai-chong Ma, Chairperson of the Department of Social Work and Co-Chairperson of the Steering Committee for Promoting Personal Development through Social and Civic Engagement, CUHK. Six experienced social service workers and academics were invited to the Forum as guest commentators. Fruitful discussions about various social problems and the practice of social service were sparkled among the guest commentators and the students. 
Delivering Effective Communication with the Community Partners 
The I‧CARE Service Project Scheme encourages students to initiate and plan for their own projects, and to learn to liaise with community partners. Miss Emily Chan, Manager of the Information Accessibility Centre, Hong Kong Society for the Blind (HKSB) was happy to see that the students of 'MOTIVIC' project have always been enthusiastic to learn from more experienced people. She was delighted that the students could adjust themselves, cooperate well with the community partners and advance their projects. 
Concerning with Minority Justice 
The student volunteers of 'CLOVER' programme presented their local project that served the South Asian people in Hong Kong. They noted that people of this ethnic group are ordinary like local people and the government should provide more support to fulfill their cultural, religious and social needs. Miss Nise So, Associate Chairperson of Hong Kong Women Christian Council appreciated how students were willing to reveal the voices of the suppressed communities. Mr. Tang Wai-hung, Lecturer of the Department of Social Work and Director of Service-Learning, Wu Yee Sun College, CUHK was pleased to see that students make acute observation on the problems faced by ethnic minorities in Hong Kong. He suggested that, in the future, students could examine the source of these problems. 
Four students from the 'Tap Mun Elderly Project' shared stories of the seniors in Tap Mun Island they visited last year. They suggested that policies should be introduced to stimulate people to visit their parents in Tap Mun more often. 
Prof. Kung Lap-yan, Associate Professor of the Department of Religious and Cultural Studies, CUHK encouraged students to observe how the neglected communities make use of strategies to fulfill their desires and expectations and resist injustice. Thus, the students would be able to reveal the positive side of the marginalized. 
Reflecting on the Feasibility of Service 
Students who worked on some non-local projects raised concerns over the effectiveness of their service. They wondered if their mission of inspiring children in rural communities with new knowledge of society and health could be accomplished within only one to two weeks. Miss Au Mei Po, Director of Amnesty International (Hong Kong) was glad that students were critical and reflective on their own services. She encouraged students to have pro-longed and continuous engagement with the target communities in order to understand their needs. Dr. Leung Kai Chi, Associate Director (Curriculum), Leadership Development Section, Office of University General Education, CUHK was also pleased to learn that students could examine the sustainability of their projects. He encouraged them to be more cautious about the problems encountered by the service targets. 
For more information about the I‧CARE Service Project Scheme: www.cuhk.edu.hk/icare/ . 
About I‧CARE Programme
With the slogan 'Aspiration through reflection; Renewal through civility', the I‧CARE Programme aims to promote students' holistic development through social and civic engagements in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas countries, and to raise their humanistic and civic awareness. Led by the Steering Committee for Promoting Personal Development through Social and Civic Engagement, the programme adopts an integrated approach and supports students to participate in five programmes, including: 1) Social Service Project Scheme, 2) Research and Study Scheme, 3) NGO Internship Scheme, 4) Social Enterprise Scheme, and 5) University Lecture on Civility. 