[date]16 August 2013[/date]
[title]OBITUARY
Dr the Honourable Lee Quo Wei, GBM, JP[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong records with deep sadness the passing of Dr the Honourable Lee Quo Wei, GBM, JP, Life Member of the Council on 10 August 2013 at Prince of Wales Hospital, at the age of 95.
Dr Lee Quo Wei was a staunch supporter of tertiary education and had a long and close association with The Chinese University of Hong Kong.  Dr Lee was the founding Treasurer and participated actively in the establishment and development of the University.  He served as Chairman of the University Council from 1982 and retired in 1997 after 34 years of distinguished service on the University Council.  Under his capable leadership, the University grew from strength to strength.  He continued to give his support and contribute to the University as a Life Member of the Council after his retirement.
From its inception, Dr Lee Quo Wei led the University in obtaining major grants and support from the government and the community.  During the past few decades, Dr Lee helped the University to attract magnanimous donations, enabling it to advance on a solid footing.  He personally made very generous donations to establish the Wei Lun Foundation Endowment Fund to support many academic and research programmes of the University.  These included setting up the Wei Lun Visiting Professorship Programme, the Wei Lun Professorships in various disciplines and the Lee Quo Wei Professorship of Neurology, the establishment of various facilities including the Lee Shu Pui Hall at Chung Chi College, Lee Quo Wei Law Library, G. H. Choa Cardiovascular Centre, CUHK-PWH Lee Quo Wei Cardiovascular Intervention Centre and Lee Quo Wei Hall at S. H. Ho College.  Dr Lee's donations also supported a wide range of scholarships and bursaries including the establishment of the Lee Quo Wei CUHK Golden Jubilee Scholarship Endowment Fund, which enables students to complete their education and broaden their horizons through participation in different programmes and activities.  With his enthusiastic support and excellent leadership, Dr Lee made distinguished contributions to the academic and research development of the University over the past 50 years.
Dr Lee Quo Wei was a veteran banker, a community leader and a philanthropist, widely respected both in the business community and Hong Kong as a whole.  He served the Hang Seng Bank for more than 60 years.  He was also a Hong Kong affairs adviser, a member of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council.  A devoted educationalist, he chaired the Board of Education, he was the first Chairman of the Education Commission and was instrumental in the overall planning and development of the education system in Hong Kong.
Dr Lee's lifelong devotion to the education and economic progress of Hong Kong as well as his service to the University will be long remembered by his fellow Council Members and all members of the University.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong