[date]21 November 2013[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 74th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 74th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees (Congregation) today (21 November). Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, presided over the congregation and conferred all Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees. On the same occasion, Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor, presented awards to 26 outstanding teachers and researchers in recognition of their achievements.
University Education Award 2013
The University instituted the University Education Award in 2011-12 to honour academics for outstanding commitment to the promotion of teaching excellence. Recipients of the award are commended for their contributions to enhancing the student learning experience through curriculum design/development, scholarship in teaching and learning, as well as adoption of learner-centred approaches. The selection panel of the university-wide education award comprises the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education), Associate Deans (Education) of the eight Faculties and the Director of University General Education. The awardees of the University Education Award 2013 were Prof. Jane Jackson, Faculty of Arts; and Prof.Lutz-Christian Wolff, Faculty of Law.
Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2012
At the Congregation, Professor Sung also presented the Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2012. The award has been given annually since 1999 by the Vice-Chancellor to exemplary teachers nominated by the Dean of each Faculty in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year nine awardees were presented this prestigious award: Prof. Poon Ming-kay, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Didier Andre Guillot, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Choi Po-king, Faculty of Education; Prof. Yung Pun-to Douglas, Faculty of Engineering; Mr. Steven Brian Gallagher, Faculty of Law; Prof. Au Chak-leung, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Kong Siu-kai, Faculty of Science; Prof. Huang Yihui Christine, Faculty of Social Science; and Prof. Ng Kai-chiu, General Education. A total of 105 outstanding educators have been given the award since 1999, eight of whom received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance.
Young Researcher Award 2012 and Postgraduate Research Output Award 2012
The Young Researcher Award and the Postgraduate Research Output Award were established in 2002 to recognize research accomplishments of young faculty members and to encourage quality research. The Young Researcher Award is open to all eligible full-time teachers at Assistant Professor rank or above and below the age of 45. The Postgraduate Research Output Award is open to all eligible full-time or part-time postgraduate students of the University. The Dean of each Faculty is invited every year to nominate one member who has produced the best research output for each award. The Research Committee considers nominations received and recommends successful candidates for approval by the Administrative and Planning Committee. Recipients of the Young Researcher Award 2012 were Prof. Wan Chui-ki, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Zhang Tianyu, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Yin Hongbiao, Faculty of Education; Prof. Wang Xiaogang, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Huang Hui, Faculty of Law; Prof. Wong Chi-sang Martin, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Wang Jianfang, Faculty of Science; and Prof. ChoiYuk-ping Susanne, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and an amount of HK$100,000 in the form of a research grant.
Recipients of the Postgraduate Research Output Award 2012 were Dr. Chau Man-lut, Faculty of Arts; Ms. Huang Xun Irene, Faculty of Business Administration; Ms. Zhou Sili, Faculty of Education; Dr. Lu Lu, Faculty of Engineering; Ms. Guo Jinghui, Faculty of Medicine; Dr. Lau Ting-fong Janet, Faculty of Science; and Mr. Zhang Hongsheng, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and a prize of HK$25,000 in cash.
Master’s and Bachelor’s Degree Graduates in 2013
A total of 5,782 Master’s degrees and 3,284 Bachelor’s degrees were conferred at the congregation. Among the latter were 468 Bachelor of Arts, 597 Bachelor of Business Administration (including one graduate who was simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree), 39 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 74 Bachelor of Education, 386 Bachelor of Engineering, 71 Bachelor of Laws, 123 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 237 Bachelor of Nursing, 31 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 20 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 672 Bachelor of Science (including nine graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme), and 527 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.
Link to transcript and video of Prof. Sung’s speech at the 74th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/governance/officers/joseph-sung/english/speeches/speeches.html
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=153&amp;s=
 