[date]3 October 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Launched the First Free Online Course 
'The Role of the Renminbi in the International Monetary System'[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) formed partnership earlier this year with Coursera, a leading massive open online course (MOOC) platform, to bring CUHK's courses online worldwide and available to everyone for free.  CUHK will be hosting five debut online courses across a wide range of disciplines including humanities, social sciences, economics and finance, as well as information technology.  The first free online course named 'The Role of the Renminbi in the International Monetary System' is now available, which has already attracted nearly 20,000 participants from around the world to enrol. 
'The Role of the Renminbi in the International Monetary System' is taught by Prof. Joseph Yam, former Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and Distinguished Research Fellow of the Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF) of CUHK.  Production and compilation of course materials is led by Prof. Terence Tai-Leung Chong, Executive Director of IGEF. 
Prof. Terence Chong said, 'The establishment of the free trade zone in Shanghai will foster the liberalization of interest rate and the opening up of the capital account in China - the two necessary stages of RMB internationalization.  In light of the increasing interest among the general public in this subject, CUHK and Coursera have introduced this free online course to enhance public understanding of the RMB.' 
The 4-week course was launched on 30 September, covering four topics to discuss various aspects of the RMB internationalization and its implications for Hong Kong, mainland China and the world.  Interested parties can sign up for the course at https://www.coursera.org/course/renminbi. 
More CUHK courses will be available online soon:
       'The Beauty of Kunqu Opera' by Prof. Hsien-yung Kenneth Pai, Wei Lun Professor of Humanities, Faculty of Arts, and Prof. Wei Hua, Professor and Division Head, Department of Chinese Language and Literature;
        'Classics of Chinese Humanities: Guided Readings' by Prof. Ou Fan Leo Lee, Sin Wai Kin Professor of Chinese Culture, Faculty of Arts, and Prof. Wai Tsui, Assistant Professor, Department of Chinese Language and Literature;
        'Structural Equation Model and its Applications' by Prof. Kit Tai Hau, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Choh-Ming Li Professor of Educational Psychology, Department of Educational Psychology; and
        'Information Theory' by Prof. Raymond W. Yeung, Choh-Ming Li Professor of Information Engineering, and Co-Director, Institute of Network Coding.
About Institute of Global Economics and Finance
The Institute of Global Economics and Finance of CUHK, established in June 2010, draws on the educational and research strengths and resources of the Department of Economics and the Faculty of Business Administration, with the aim of contributing to the modernization of China's monetary and financial systems through new ways of thinking, policy recommendations and new paths for modernization.
About Coursera
Coursera is on a mission to change the world by educating millions of people by offering classes from top universities and professors online for free. Coursera's comprehensive education platform combines mastery-based learning principles with video lectures, interactive content and a global community of peers, offering students from around the world a unique online learning experience. Coursera has partnered with top-tier universities, including Stanford University, California Institute of Technology, Columbia University, University of Michigan, and the University of Washington, to provide courses across a broad range of disciplines, including medicine, literature, history and computer science, among others. For more information, visit Coursera.org.