[date]21 August 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Nethersole School of Nursing Held Naming Ceremony of S. H. Ho Nursing Teaching and Learning Centre[/title]
The Naming Ceremony of S. H. Ho Nursing Teaching and Learning Centre was held by the Nethersole School of Nursing of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) on 19 August.  More than 300 local health care and nursing leaders, nursing practitioners, staff and students participated in the ceremony. 
Officiating guests included Dr. Ho Tzu Leung, Governor of the S. H. Ho Foundation Limited; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Prof. Fok Tai Fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Prof. The Hon. Joseph K.L. Lee, Legislative Councillor (Health Services); Ms. Jane W.H. Liu, Chief Manager (Nursing) of Hospital Authority; Ms. Lydia S.M. Cheung, Principal Nursing Officer of Department of Health; and Prof. Diana T.F. Lee, Chair Professor of Nursing and Director, the Nethersole School of Nursing, CUHK. 
The Centre aims to provide nursing students with state-of-the-art e-learning facilities and a highly realistic simulated clinical environment conducive to effective learning and development of patient-centred nursing care competencies.  In appreciation of the generous donation from the S. H. Ho Foundation Limited to support the setting up of the Centre, the Centre was named after the late Dr. S. H. Ho. 
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung said, 'The donation has enabled us to offer optimal learning conditions for developing more competent, confident and compassionate nurses to serve  our community.  I would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to S.H. Ho Foundation Limited for its support to the University.' 
Dr. Ho Tzu Leung said, 'The Foundation always considers quality nursing education a top priority in enhancing health care quality and facilitating sustainable health care development in Hong Kong.  I hope that the Centre will provide nursing students with an effective and excellent learning environment, helping them acquire professional knowledge and skills to develop their full potential in the nursing profession.' 
'With such highly sophisticated e-learning and clinical simulation facilities in the Centre, our School is now better equipped to excel in nursing education and to nurture more capable and professional nurses for our community,' said Prof. Diana T.F. Lee. 