[date]28 November 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Celebrates Grand Opening of University Gallery Today[/title]
In celebration of its Golden Jubilee, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) opened the University Gallery today (28 November).  Through the display of hundreds of precious photographs, artefacts, and multimedia resources, the Gallery exhibits the history, memorable moments and achievements of CUHK in the past 50 years, mirroring the rapid changes of our home city.  The University Gallery was built with a generous donation from The T S Kwok Foundation.  Dr. Raymond P.L. Kwok, the representative of the T S Kwok Foundation, and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, officiated at the grand opening ceremony today. 
Dr. Raymond P.L. Kwok said, 'The establishment of the University Gallery carries a significant meaning to CUHK.  It records the glorious history of the University in the past half-century, taking us back to the early years starting 1949 when the visionary Chinese scholars set up the three founding colleges respectively.  With the perseverance and faith of its founding fathers, CUHK came into being with a combined vision of the three colleges.  Though the early days were tough and resources were limited, CUHK members faced the challenges with courage, and grew and thrived with unbeatable spirits.  The University Gallery illustrates not only the story of CUHK, but also that of the Hong Kong people.' 
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung said, 'Over the past 50 years, CUHK has been growing with the fast-changing society.  Nonetheless, we've never forgotten our founding mission, 'to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West'.  The University Gallery will take us on a walk through the key milestones of the university history, the good times and tough times, the evolution of cultural heritage and education philosophy, and to meet the great people in CUHK.  We are most indebted to the T S Kwok Foundation for generously supporting the establishment of the University Gallery at our Golden Jubilee, helping us to review the past and project into the future.' 
Seven exhibition zones featuring multiple facets of CUHK 
Fifty years ago, CUHK began with three colleges, around 1,000 students, and about 100 teachers and staff members.  To date, the University has grown into a vibrant teaching, learning and research community with nine colleges, eight faculties, a student population of more than 20,000 and with over 6,000 full-time teaching, research and administrative staff members.  CUHK takes great pride in its achievements as one of the territory's leading institutions, and an Asian education hub.  Its academic and scientific breakthroughs have expanded the territory of human knowledge.  The good deeds and efforts of CUHK members have changed the lives of many in the local community and the world, passing on the humanistic spirit deeply rooted since the early days of the University. 
The University Gallery comprises seven zones across two storeys, located at the main entrance of the University Library.  It is vividly designed to show visitors the University's milestones through the decades, explorations and innovations, the Masters and the distinguished scholars, as well as contributions to the community, to the country and the world by generations of CUHK people.  The seven zones of the gallery are: 
Milestones Through the Decades
Modest Beginnings – The First Years
Whole-person Education – Ideas and Practice
Explorations &amp; Innovations – Outstanding Scholars
Bringing Together China and the West – Chinese Studies
Roots in China, Eye on the World – Exchange Activities
CU50‧The People 
The association between the Kwok's family and CUHK 
Mr. Tak-seng Kwok firmly believed that professional education is the key to driving continuous development in society.  In 1977, Mr. Kwok and his friends in the business sector, with the help of the then CUHK Treasurer, Dr. Lee Quo-wei, raised funds to launch the three-year part-time MBA Programme at CUHK and set up the Kowloon MBA Town Centre, providing professional training for potential talents in the industrial and commercial sectors.  Mr. Kwok later became one of the honorary presidents of the Three-Year MBA (CUHK) Association and continuously supported the programme development. 
After Mr. Kwok's departure, the Kwok's family continued to support CUHK by sponsoring various scholarships and academic activities, including scholarships for the Faculty of Business Administration, the establishment of the C N Yang Archive, and the sponsorship for the Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lecture Series for ten consecutive years.  In recent years, the Sun Hung Kai Properties - Kwoks' Foundation Limited has set up the Mainland Students Scholarships at CUHK to support outstanding mainland students with financial needs to study at the University.   Dr. Raymond P.L. Kwok has served as a member of the University Council since 1994 and has served as the Vice-Chairman since 1999.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=155&amp;s=