[date]17 September 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Global Internship Programme 2013 Marks a Three-fold Increase in Internship Placements in Asia-Pacific[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) holds a strong belief in whole-person education and recognizes the importance of non-formal education and experiential learning. In the increasingly competitive society, it is essential to equip students with better international exposure, cultural and career competency. Therefore, the University has always strived to provide enrichment opportunities to students beyond classroom learning. With such aim, the Office of Student Affairs launched the Global Internship Programme (GIP) in 1997. Since its inception, GIP has offered students with diversified internship experiences and cultural exchange opportunities and has benefited more than 3,700 students throughout the years. In this summer, a total of 570 students interned in 24 countries under the arrangement of the Programme, recording a growth of more than 10% in the number of participants compared with 2012. 
In view of the fast economic growth in the Asia-Pacific Region, the Office of Student Affairs has been actively liaising with the organizations and companies in India, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. With the staunch support of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office, triple internship placements in the Asia-Pacific region has been solicited, with a significant increase from 8 places in 2012 to 29 places in 2013. The industry diversity has also been expanded to aviation, hospitality, real estate and architecture &amp; construction industry. Students are given opportunities to experience the unique working culture in the Asia-Pacific region, which is certainly an asset to their future career development. 
In 2013, the Programme has further expanded to different parts of the world, and CUHK students has interned in Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mauritius, New Zealand, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, the United Kindgom, the United States, and 24 cities in mainland China.