[date]17 October 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK 50th Anniversary Distinguished Lecture by Prof. Zhong Nanshan on ‘From SARS to H7N9 – Management of Acute Respiratory Virus Infection in China’[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was privileged to have invited Prof. Zhong Nanshan, a renowned expert in respiratory diseases and Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, as the guest speaker for the University’s 50th Anniversary Distinguished Lecture. Professor Zhong delivered his lecture today (17 October) on ‘From SARS to H7N9 – Management of Acute Respiratory Virus Infection in China’, drawing a full house of more than 200 audience, including academics, students, alumni, and members of the public. Professor Zhong was also conferred the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, at the 73rd Congregation at CUHK this morning.
Prof. Zhong Nanshan is currently Professor of Medicine at Guangzhou Medical University and Director of the State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease. He is best known for his contribution in leading the Chinese medical team to combat SARS in 2003. In June 2003, Guangdong Province hosted an event to recognise the heroes of the fight against SARS, and Professor Zhong was the only recipient of the Top Merit Award.
Professor Zhong conducts embarking medical and scientific research. To date, he has published over 50 papers in reputable international journals. In 2008, his paper in Lancet on the effect of carbocisteine on acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease won him critical acclaim on the international medical scene. He has also published more than 200 papers in state-level journals, cementing his status as a leading figure in the field of respiratory medicine in China. He has 16 books and 9 patents to his name, in addition to over 20 technological achievement awards, including the State Scientific and Technological Progress Award second-class and third-class, First Prize in the Guangdong Science and Technology Awards, the Ho Leung Ho Lee Award and the Wu Yang Award for Special Contributions. He was also conferred an honorary doctorate by the University of Edinburgh and the University of Birmingham in 2007 and 2011 respectively. 
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=151&amp;s=
 