[date]7 November 2013[/date]
[title]SHKP and CUHK Present Distinguished Lecture 
by Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz, 2001 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences on ‘Sustainable Growth in the Wake of the Crisis: Lessons for Asia and the World’
Free Tickets Available[/title]
Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present the 21st installment of the widely acclaimed Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures on 18 November (Monday), featuring Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz, 2001 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences on 'Sustainable Growth in the Wake of the Crisis: Lessons for Asia and the World'. During the lecture, Professor Stiglitz will share his scholarship with CUHK staff, students, alumni and members of the political, business and education sectors. 
Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz is an internationally acclaimed economist and commentator.  His scholarship covers a wide spectrum in economics, including macro-economics and monetary theory, development economics and trade theory, public and corporate finance, the theories of industrial organization and rural organization, and the theories of welfare economics and of income and wealth distribution. He often gives comments, criticisms and suggestions on key social and economic issues in the US, and also concerns about the economic and development challenges faced by the Eurozone, China and other Asian countries, making him one of the most influential economists in the world. 
In the coming Distinguished Lecture, Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz will evaluate implications of the financial crisis that began in 2007 for economic theory and policy, in particular in China and in Asia. The market and regulatory failures that sparked the global downturn held stark lessons for economists and policymakers. But those lessons have not all been learned–at least not as much as they should have been. Professor Stiglitz charts another way forward, explaining the hazards and opportunities of the post-crisis world, with a particular emphasis on the economies ofAsia. 
Professor Stiglitz created a new branch of economics 'The Economics of Information' which earned him the Nobel Prize in 2001. He suggested that asymmetries of information and other imperfections of information in the market could have profound effects on how the economy behaved. He pioneered such pivotal concepts as adverse selection and moral hazard, which have now become standard tools of theorists and policy analysts. Recognized around the world as a leading economic educator, Professor Stiglitz has numerous publications on economic, political and social issues. His book Globalization and Its Discontents has been translated into 35 languages and has sold more than one million copies worldwide. He has recently completed the Stiglitz Report with experts in the United Nations to analyse the global financial crisis. 
Professor Stiglitz received his Ph.D. from MIT in 1967, became a full professor at Yale in 1970. He served as the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1995-97 during the Clinton administration, then became Chief Economist and Senior Vice-President of the World Bank from 1997-2000. In 2008 he was asked by the French President Nicolas Sarkozy to chair the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress. In 2009 he was appointed by the President of the United Nations General Assembly as chair of the Commission of Experts on Reform of the International Financial and Monetary System. 
In 1979, Professor Stiglitz received the John Bates Clark Award, given biennially by the American Economic Association to the economist under 40 who has made the most significant contribution to the field. In 2011, he was named one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time. Prof. Joseph E. Stiglitz is currently University Professor at Columbia University in New York and Co-Chair of Columbia University's Committee on Global Thought. He is also the founder and Co-President of the Initiative for Policy Dialogue at Columbia. 
Free tickets will be available to give Hong Kong people a chance to benefit from the distinguished scholar's insight. Details are as follows: 
Lecture:Date:           18 November 2013 (Monday)Time:            5:30 pmPlace:           Lecture Theatre 1, G/F,                     Yasumoto International Academic Park,                    CUHK, Shatin, NTLanguage:     English 
Ticket collection:Tickets are now available at the following outlets: 

Outlets 
Opening Hours

Tsimshatsui Oriental Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 13/F, Oriental Centre, 67 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 21:00Saturday: 9:00 – 18:00

Central Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, 1/F, Bank of America Tower, 12 Harcourt Road, Central
Monday to Friday: 9:00 - 20:00Saturday: 9:00 - 17:00

Tseung Kwan O Learning Centre, CUHK School of Continuing and Professional Studies, Tsui Lam Estate, Tseung Kwan O
Monday to Friday: 9:00 – 19:00Saturday: 9:00 – 17:00

Tickets will be available while they last – one per person.  Public can also apply for online tickets at http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/nobellectures/2013-11/
Enquiries: 3943-8677 
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures were inaugurated in 2004 by SHKP with CUHK.  The series brings Nobel Laureates to speak to a broad cross-section of the community, to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, encouraging life-long learning and innovation.  After this 21st installment of the series, 28 Nobel Laureates or renowned scholars will have lectured in Hong Kong.