[date]25 August 2013[/date]
[title]Prof. Chu Ming-chung Spoke for CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture 
Introduced Evolution of Universe Through Ghost Particles[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) successfully presented the 5th session of CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture Series at Hong Kong Central Library yesterday (24 August).  Prof. Chu Ming-chung from the Department of Physics, Faculty of Science at CUHK delivered a lecture entitled ‘Ghost particles and the evolution of the universe’ to introduce ghost particles, which are essential for understanding how the universe evolves to its present state.  The lecture drew a full house of over 300 participants, including academics, students, alumni and members of the public.  Live broadcast was arranged to cater to the extra audience.
In recent years, advances in cosmological observation have led to a large volume of precision data.  As a result, physicists have gained tremendous insight into the content and evolution of the universe.  However, the normal matter that people are familiar with accounts for only a small fraction of the total mass-energy of the universe.  Instead, ghost particles – particles that have almost no interaction with ordinary matter – dominate how the universe evolves to its present state.
In this lecture, Prof. Chu Ming-chung introduced the physics of ghost particles and their roles in some important outstanding problems in cosmology.  Recently, scientists have made important breakthroughs in the study of neutrinos, a class of ghost particles.  Professor Chu also discussed a related research project that a CUHK group of researchers has been actively participating in, the Daya Bay Neutrino Oscillation Experiment.
Professor Chu obtained his B.Sc. and PhD degrees both at California Institute of Technology (Caltech).  He then held research positions at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Caltech before joining CUHK in 1995.  His current research interests include astrophysics, cosmology, and particle physics, etc.  In particular, he has been the principal investigator (PI) of theHong Kongteam of the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment, which has discovered a new kind of neutrino oscillation that bears important implications for cosmology and particle physics.
Next round of Anniversary Fair Exhibition to be held in CityWalk, Tsuen Wan
With the theme of ‘Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future’, CUHK has launched the 50th Anniversary Fair to celebrate Golden Jubilee.  The Fair comprises a series of public lectures and roving exhibitions, which lasts from March to November this year.  It aims to give the public an introduction to CUHK’s history, culture and development, and to present its mission and vision.  The next round of roving exhibition will be held in Event Hall, UG/F of Citywalk in Tsuen Wan, from 9-13 September.  To view the schedule of exhibition, please click here: http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/anniversaryfair.
The 50th Anniversary Public Lecture Series consists of eight lectures, covering a wide range of interesting topics in philosophy, medicine, innovative technology, business, science, education and social science.  It aims at disseminating knowledge and enlightening thought. All the lectures will be given by CUHK professors. Besides Professor Chu, the lectures by Prof. Lee Ou-fan and Prof. Kwan Tze-wan from the Faculty of Arts, Prof. Emily Y.Y. Chan from the Faculty of Medicine, Prof. Cheung Kwok-wai from the Faculty of Engineering and Prof. Chan Chi-fai from the Faculty of Business Administration have also been successfully held.  Interested parties can review the lectures at www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/event-recap.
For more information on the 50th anniversary of CUHK, please visit: http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/enFor more photos, please visit: http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=133&amp;s=