[date]3 October 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK United College Distinguished Visiting Scholar Prof. Shu CHIEN to Speak on Perspectives in Biology, Medicine, Engineering and Humanities
Open to the Public[/title]
United College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited Prof. Shu CHIEN, University Professor and Director of Bioengineering Institute of California, University of California System-wide; Y.C. Fung Professor of Bioengineering and Medicine, and Director of Institute of Engineering in Medicine, University of California, San Diego, USA, as its Distinguished Visiting Scholar in 2013-14. Professor Chien will visit CUHK between 6 and 10 October 2013 and deliver two public lectures on campus. 
The first lecture: Perspectives in Biology, Medicine and Engineering
With the recent advance of modern biology and genomics, the analysis and synthesis of the vast amount of biomedical information require the application of new concepts and techniques in engineering. The synthesis of research findings with the aid of systems biology has led to advances in science and technology, including fields such as drug delivery, nanomedicine, bioimaging, stem cells, regenerative medicine. Professor Chien hopes that the academia, industry, hospitals and government can join efforts to develop biomedical engineering. Such collaborations in the application of engineering to medicine will lead to the enhancements of health and quality of life of people. 
The second lecture: Interplays between Biology-Medicine-Engineering and Humanities-Societies
Professor Chien will discuss the influences of biomedical engineering on humanity-society. For examples, creation of art and music requires the coordination of physiological functions and physical instruments, and their appreciation requires physiological cognitive functions. The feedback control of physiological functions has analogous features as economic supply-demand. The behaviours of normal vs. abnormal cells in an individual can be compared with those of good citizens vs deranged persons in a society. Understanding of the interplays between biology-medicine-engineering and humanity-society can shed new lights on the meanings of life and truth. 
Members of the public are welcome to join the above lectures. Please call 3943-7455 for seats reservation. Detail of the lectures are as follows: 

Date:
Tuesday, 8 October 2013–Perspectives in Biology, Medicine and EngineeringThursday, 10 October 2013–Interplays between Biology-Medicine-Engineering and Humanities-Societies

Time:
4:30 – 6:00 pm

Venue:
LT1,Yasumoto International Academic Park, CUHK, Shatin

Language:
English

Enquiries:
Mr George Lam (tel: 3943-7598) or Ms Amy Yeung (tel: 3943-7455), Dean of Students' Office, United College, CUHK

Biography of Prof. Shu Chien 
Prof. Shu Chien obtained his medical degree in 1953 from Taiwan University and his Ph.D. in physiology from Columbia University.  Professor Chien's outstanding contributions in elucidating the engineering foundation of cardiovascular dynamics, and integrating engineering and biomedical sciences for the development of the biomedical engineering profession are epochal. Professor Chien is a member the US National Academies, including National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and Institute of Medicine. He is one of the eleven renowned scholars who hold membership to all three academies.  He is also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Chinese Academy of Science in mainland China, and the Academia Sinica in Taiwan. 
In recognition of his tremendous contributions in bioengineering, especially in cellular, molecular, and cardiovascular bioengineering and related fields, Professor Chien has received numerous international honors and awards that include the Melville Medal (twice), Fahraeus Medal, National Institute of Health Merit Award, ALZA Award, Poiseuille Gold Medal, and the Galletti Award.  On 27 September 2011, the US President Barack Obama named Professor Chien one of the seven eminent researchers to receive the National Medal of Science, the highest honour bestowed by the US government on scientists and engineers.