[date]9 August 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits 22 Students to Asia’s First MB ChB 
Global Physician-Leadership Stream[/title]
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) reports impressive interim results for the first cohort of Asia's first elite MB ChB programme – the Global Physician-Leadership Stream. To date, we have selected 22 top candidates from the Hong Kong Diploma Secondary Education (HKDSE) and International Baccalaureate (IB) examinations for this unique programme. These high flyers will be trained to take up leadership roles in medical and health sciences, including clinical service, health policy, medical education, and cutting edge research. 
Professor Francis K. L. Chan, Dean of Faculty of Medicine said, "The admission results are exhilarating. As the Global Physician-Leadership Stream is intellectually demanding, one of the criteria for admission is academic merit. From the HKDSE applicants, we have selected one student with seven subjects at Level 5, and two students with six subjects at Level 5. From the IB applicants, we have selected 3 students scoring the full mark of 45, and 10 students with 44. However an individual excelling academically may not possess the right mix of attributes required of a leader. In addition, a good leader is capable of masterfully managing people and their continually changing dynamics to effect positive changes and facilitate growth. We only select students who exhibit qualities that can be cultivated so that they become worthy leaders who in turn influence others for worthy causes. This elite programme at CUHK aims not only at unlocking each student's potential, but more importantly, at guiding them to be socially responsible leaders. Our graduates will be respected and treasured inside and outside of the Hong Kong community."
He further remarked, "Transforming our passion into perfection is the motto of the Faculty.  Our staff are dedicated to nurturing in our students the practical wisdom to improvise, to lead and to perform well in trying circumstances."
With the belief that cooperation and communication are essential in leadership, the Faculty of Medicine has grown by teams rather than by individuals. We have a large reservoir of leaders and researchers to educate and nurture our global stream students. We expect this elite group to attract fellow students and form new groups that will make advances in all areas of medical and health care. 
The Faculty of Medicine welcomes our new cohort of global stream and regular medical students, whom we believe will find the experiences of this intellectual journey at CUHK transformative and memorable. 
For details of the Global Physician-Leadership Stream, please visit: www.med.cuhk.edu.hk.
 