[date]7 October 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture 
Prof. Helene Fung Speaks on Ways to Enjoy Fruitful Old Age[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has successfully presented the final session of CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair Public Lecture at Hong Kong Central Library last Saturday (5 October). Prof. Helene Fung from the Department of Psychology, Faculty of Social Science at CUHK delivered a lecture entitled 'How to prepare yourself for an enjoyable and productive old age?' to introduce various ways in making the best out of old age. The lecture drew a full house of over 350 participants, including academics, students, alumni and members of the public. Live broadcast was arranged to cater to the extra audience. 
The average life expectancy of Hong Kong people is continuously increasing. Thus, challenges posed by a longer life after retirement should not be overlooked. For decades, laypeople and professionals have discussed old age in terms of many age-related losses and declines. But recent research revealed that, with some preparation, the majority of older adults can enjoy a meaningful and productive old age. In this lecture, Prof. Helene Fung reviewed preparations that an individual should make, and strategies that an individual can use, to make the best out of old age. 
Prof. Helene Fung is Assistant Dean of the Faculty of Social Science, Deputy Director of the Gender Studies Programme, and Professor of the Department of Psychology, CUHK. She obtained her BS from University of Washington, Seattle, and MA and PhD from Stanford University. Before returning to Hong Kong in 2001, she was an assistant professor at the University of Alberta, Canada. 
Professor Fung was the winner of the 1998 Margaret Clark Paper Award, offered by the Association for Anthropology and Gerontology, and the 1999 Behavioral and Social Science Pre-dissertation Research Award, offered by the Gerontological Society of America. She also won the 2006 Young Research Award from CUHK, and the 2010 Margret M. and Paul B. Baltes Early Career Award in Social and Behavioral Gerontology from the Gerontological Society of America. She was elected as a fellow of the Association for Psychological Science in 2010, the Gerontological Society of America in 2011, and American Psychological Association in 2012. She is an associate editor for the Australian Journal of Psychology and a consulting editor for many other international journals. 
In terms of teaching, Professor Fung received the 2008 Retirement Research Foundation Mentor Award from American Psychological Association (Div 20), and the 2007 Exemplary Teaching Award of Faculty of Social Science from CUHK. 
The 50th Anniversary Public Lecture Series consisted of eight lectures, covering a wide range of interesting topics in philosophy, medicine, innovative technology, business, science, education and social science. It aimed at disseminating knowledge and enlightening thought. All the lectures were given by CUHK professors. Interested parties can review the lectures at http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/event-recap. 
About CUHK 50th Anniversary Fair 
With the theme of 'Embrace our Culture. Empower our Future', CUHK has launched the 50th Anniversary Fair to celebrate Golden Jubilee. The Fair comprises a series of public lectures and roving exhibitions, which lasts from March to December this year. It aims to give the public an introduction to CUHK's history, culture and development, and to present its mission and vision. The next round of roving exhibition will be held at Atrium Gallery, Level 1, New Town Plaza Phase 3 in Shatin, from 24-30 October. For more details, please visit: http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/anniversaryfair. 
For more information on the 50th anniversary of CUHK, please visit: http://www.50.cuhk.edu.hk/en
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=142&amp;s=