[date]11 November 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK New Asia College to Hold New Asia Lecture on Confucianism 2013
Renowned Confucian Scholar Prof. Tu Weiming talks about Confucian Spirit
All are welcome[/title]
Prof. Tu Weiming, Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Institute for Advanced Humanistic Studies at Peking University, Research Professor at Harvard University and Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, is invited by the New Asia College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to host the New Asia Lecture on Confucianism in mid-November 2013. Professor Tu will deliver three public lectures on New Asia Spirit and Confucian Spirit during his visit. The lectures will be conducted in Putonghua. All are welcome. Free Admission. 
Professor Tu received his B.A. from Tunghai University in Taiwan, M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard University. He taught at Harvard University from 1981 to 2010 and has also taught Chinese intellectual history, philosophies of China, and Confucian humanism at various institutions including Tunghai University, Princeton University, University of California at Berkeley and Peking University. His renowned publications include 'Confucian Thought: Selfhood as Creative Transformation', 'Way, Learning, and Politics: Essays on the Confucian Intellectual' and the 'Global Significance of Concrete Humanity: Essays on the Confucian Discourse in Cultural China'. 
New Asia College has long been recognized as the leader in the study of Confucianism in the 20th Century.  Influence of its founders, Ch'ien Mu, Tang chun-i, Mou Tsungsan and Xu Fuguan, has spread beyond the Chinese academia to the world. As renowned scholars in Confucianism, they have expressed great concern on the development of contemporary Chinese society as well as the relation of China to the rest of the world. 
Confucianism has been the core value of Chinese society and one of the most significant influences in eastern cultures for centuries. Confucianism has faced challenges during different time periods in history, especially in contemporary China. With the rapid growth in economy and abundance of resources, there has been a growing interest in understanding our traditional culture for the purpose of personal cultivation. In response to this demand, the New Asia College, with the generous support from Moonchu Foundation, has established the 'New Asia Lectures on Confucianism' in 2013. 
Moonchu Foundation has been supporting and co-organizing various cultural education activities, such as seminar and cultural exchange programme. 
Details of the New Asia Lecture on Confucianism 2013 are as follows: 
1st LectureMy Embodied Understanding of the New Asia Spirit

Moderator:
Prof. Chan Wing-hoi CharlesAssociate Professor, Division of Humanities,School of Humanities and Social Science,The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Date:
November 15, Friday

Time:
11:30 am

Venue:
Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, CUHK, Shatin

2nd LectureThe Significance of the Confucian Humanistic Spirit

Moderator:
Prof. Cheng Chung-yiProfessor, Department of Philosophy, CUHK

Date:
November 17, Sunday

Time:
2 pm

Venue:
Lecture Theatre, G/F, Hong Kong Central Library, Causeway Bay

(This talk is co-organized by New Asia College, CUHK and the Hong Kong Public Libraries)

3rd LectureThe Confucian Critical Spirit – The Meaning of Intellectual Inquiry

Moderator:
Prof. Huang YongProfessor, Department of Philosophy, CUHK

Date:
November 19, Tuesday

Time:
6 pm

Venue:
Lecture Theatre 2, UG/F, Sino Building, CUHK, Shatin

(This talk is co-organized by New Asia College and the Department of Philosophy, CUHK)

Enquiries:Ms. Michelle Lam (Tel: 3943-9680 Email: michellelam@cuhk.edu.hk)Ms. Carmen Lam (Tel: 3943-8615 Email: carmenlam@cuhk.edu.hk)