[date]14 November 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Wins the Top Prize at National Challenge Cup Competition[/title]
Six teams of students of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) swept top awards in the 13th Challenge Cup held at Soochow University recently, and won the Hong Kong and Macau Cup again this year. The University was the only institution in Hong Kong to receive this highest honour in the region for 6 consecutive times since 1997. It was also the first time a participating university from Hong Kong and Macau region received three first prize awards in one competition. 
At a celebration held today (14 November), Prof. Fanny Cheung, Pro-vice-Chancellor of CUHK congratulated the students.  Professor Cheung said, 'CUHK always strives to explore students' creativity and promotes students' interests in research development. The Challenge Cup is considered the premier national competition of extra-curricular technological projects of university students. It pools the best young innovative brains from all corners of China. I am pleased with students' outstanding results. I hope that our students will continue to use their creativity and intelligence to develop research projects that benefit humankind.' 
As a biennial national competition, the Challenge Cup is known as the 'Olympics' in promoting innovation in social science, science and technology for university students in China. The HKSAR delegation from 14 institutions in Hong Kong and Macau comprising over 100 students was led by Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK to participate in the competition.  The participating institutions included CUHK, the University of Hong Kong, the University of Science and Technology, City University of Hong Kong, Lingnan University, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education, Hong Kong Institute of Education, Open University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Shue Yan University, Chu Hai College as well as University of Macau, Science and Technology University of Macau and Polytechnic Institute of Macau. 
The University will hold an exhibition of student achievements in innovation and entrepreneurship including the six winning projects at the University Exhibition Hall, G/F, University Library, CUHK, from 6 January to 17 January 2014. 
Projects and awards are listed below.

Name of Project
Name of Student
Affiliated Department
Name of Award

Under-actuated Wire-Driven Mechanism and Highly Efficient Robot Fish
LI ZhengLAU Wai Pik
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
First Award

Converting infrared light into broadband visible light at high efficiency using lanthanide-sensitized oxides
WANG Jun Xin
Department of Physics
First Award

Five Institutions withOneVillage
SIU ManIP Kwun Lun
School of Architecture
First Award

Battery-less Wireless Keyboard
WANG Zeng YueLI Lin Kai
Department of Mechanical and Automation EngineeringDepartment of Electronic Engineering
Second Award

Virtual Reality Gloves
CHAO Tak LonLEONG Hou Wang
Department of Electronic EngineeringDepartment of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Third Award

Chord Analysis
TAI Tsz WaiSIU Wing Oi
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Third Award
