[date]27 August 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK 50th Anniversary Celebratory Event
'Those Were the Days at CUHK Business School'
Photo Collection Campaign
[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Business School (CUHK Business School) has the longest history among all business schools in Hong Kong. Coinciding with the 50th anniversary of CUHK, the Business School celebrates by holding a photo collection campaign  titled "Those Were the Days at CUHK Business School", to invite its alumni, staff, students, teachers and the general public to share the memorable moments they had in the Business School together.
The CUHK Business School has always been the pioneer of business education in Hong Kong to provide outstanding business programmes. For instance, the School offered the first Bachelor of Commerce (now renamed as BBA) programme in 1963, the first full-time Master of Business Administration (MBA) programmes in 1966, the first part-time MBA programmes in 1977, and the first part-time Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) programme in 1993. At present, these programmes are prestigious within the region and even in the world.
The CUHK Business School has nurtured over 26,000 graduates, across every industry sector. Many of them are business leaders and social elites who carry big weight in society and industries. They include Sir C.K. Chow, Chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; Mr. Wong Yick Kam, Michael, Director and Group Principal Advisor of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited; Mr. Chu Tai Wo, John, Executive Vice President and Group Chief Investment Officer of AIA Group; Mr. Ng Kong Ping, Chairman and Managing Partner of Greater China of Ernst &amp; Young; Mr. Yip Siu Hong, Nelson, award-winning athlete of several international para-equestrian competitions; Ms. Wong Fung Han, Gilly, Chief Executive of Consumer Council; Ms. Chiu Lai Kuen, Susanna, President of the Hong Kong Institute of CPAs; Mr. Wong Wai Kay, Ricky, Chairman of Hong Kong Television Network Limited; Mr. Kan Man Lok, Paul, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Hungary; as well as Mr. Leung Ling Yin, Gary, a young and aspiring bus captain of The Kowloon Motor Bus Company who is loyal to his dream. 
Among them, Mr. Nelson Yip was the first to share his story with CUHK Business School. 'Despite having difficulty getting about due to a severe fever I had when I was little, I am still firm and persistent, and believe in my ability. I completed my MBA programmes at CUHK Business School in 2004, during that time, I met some good friends and classmates. With the support from each other, those two years of studies are the unforgettable moments of my life,' he expressed. In addition to striving in academic pursuit, Nelson also gallops on the horse, and he has won several awards. In 2008, he was the Hong Kong representative of the Beijing Paralympics equestrian game, as well as one of the torch bearers in the Olympics torch relay. In 2012, Nelson set up the Unleash Foundation which brings positive energy to the society. Targeting teenagers, the disabled and ethnic minorities, the foundation encourages them to unleash their potential and challenge themselves. Meanwhile, he is also managing a number of companies, having success in the business world, he is absolutely the idol and hero of many Hong Kongers.
There are two categories in this campaign: the first one is for Business School alumni only, and the other is for all other CUHK alumni, staff and students, and the general public. Participants can submit photos relating to the Business School, along with a brief description under 50 words (Chinese or English), and upload them to:
The event website: http://photo50.baf.cuhk.edu.hk or
The special Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/CUHKBusinessAlumni
Participants can win fabulous prizes, including deluxe hotel accommodation in Hong Kong and Macau, a spa treatment, theme park admission tickets, a cable car tour, dining coupons, trendy fashion, computing products, cookware, and luxury eyewear. Entries have a chance to be displayed in Cheng Yu Tung Building during Alumni Homecoming Day on 7 December and will be used for decoration purpose after the event. For enquiries, please contact the Alumni and Corporate Affairs Office, Ms. Ching at (852) 3943-4718 or Ms. Ng at 3943-9626, or via email: photo50@baf.cuhk.edu.hk. 
About CUHK Business School
CUHK Business School comprises two schools – Accountancy and Hotel &amp; Tourism Management; and four departments – Finance, Decision Sciences &amp; Managerial Economics, Management, and Marketing. It was first business school in Hong Kong offering MBA and EMBA courses. Today, the School offers 10 undergraduate programmes and 31 graduate programmes (10 MBA/EMBA; 15 Master, MSc and MPhil; 6 PhD).
In the Financial Times' 2013 global rankings, CUHK's MBA programmes ranked 27, meanwhile the EMBA programme was no. 17 in 2012. CUHK has the largest number of business alumni (26,000) in Hong Kong, many of whom are key government and business leaders. The Business School currently has more than 4,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Professor TJ Wong is the Dean of CUHK Business School.