[date]9 October 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK presents 'An Operatic Journey of Cultural Heritage 
through Peking, Kunqu and Cantonese Traditions' to celebrate Golden Jubilee[/title]
In celebration of its Golden Jubilee, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has organized 'An Operatic Journey of Cultural Heritage through Peking, Kunqu and Cantonese Traditions', with the aim of promoting Chinese culture through the performances of three major traditional Chinese operas from yesterday (8 October) to 10 October.  The first performance held last night was well-received by more than a thousand participants, including CUHK students and staff, alumni, foreign consuls, exchanges students and members of the public. 
The opening ceremony of 'An Operatic Journey of Cultural Heritage through Peking, Kunqu and Cantonese Traditions' was officiated by Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Dr. Lee Woo-sing, Permanent Honorary President of the Shanghai Fraternity Association of Hong Kong; Dr. Koo Ti-hua, Founder of the Koo Ti Hua Foundation for the Promotion of Kunqu Opera; Mr. Mei Baojiu, Honorary President of Beijing Opera and the Mei Lanfang Opera Troupe; Mr. Yuen Siu-fai, Vice President of The Chinese Artists Association of Hong Kong; Mr. Guo Yu, President of The Shanghai Opera School affiliated to the Shanghai Theatre Academy; and Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and Convenor of Chinese Operas Organising Committee. 
At the opening ceremony, Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK said, 'The mission of CUHK is "to Combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West". We continue to strive to promote what has always been of utmost value to us since our inception, i.e. traditional arts and culture, as well as the humanistic spirit. This year marks the golden jubilee of the University. We are proud to present "An Operatic Journey of Cultural Heritage through Peking, Kunqu and Cantonese Traditions", a three-day cultural feast which is made possible with the generous support of Dr. Koo Ti-hua, Dr. Lee Woo-sing, Mr. Hamen Fan Shi-hoo, Mr. Clement Fung Siu-to, Mr. Ho Kin-lap and the Shanghai Commercial Bank Limited.' 
The University is honoured to have the College of Chinese Operafrom the Shanghai Theatre Academy to give two performances of Peking and Kunqu opera, introducing classics from the two great Chinese opera traditions and bringing forward four great Chinese beauties from over two millennia of history. For Cantonese opera, the University is glad to invite renowned Cantonese opera artiste Mr. Yuen Siu-fai, together with the Ling Lung Cantonese Opera Troupe, to perform a re-run of the first Cantonese opera centered on Confucius which debuted last year. 
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=143&amp;s=
 