[date]17 October 2013[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 73rd Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees on its Foundation Day[/title]
In celebration of its 50th anniversary this year, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 73rd Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees on its Foundation Day today (17 October) to confer honorary degrees to five distinguished persons and install the first batch of Choh-Ming Li Professors.  Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of the University, presided at the Congregation.
Five distinguished persons were conferred honorary degrees in recognition of their exceptional contributions in their respective areas of achievement to social, economic, educational and medical progress.  They are:
Dr. LI Kwok-po, David
Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa
Prof. Barry James MARSHALL  
Doctor of Science, honoris causa
Dr. Elsie TU
Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa
Mr. WONG Yan-lung
Doctor of Laws, honoris causa
Prof. ZHONG Nanshan
Doctor of Science, honoris causa
At the Congregation, a video on CUHK’s 50th Anniversary was presented that illustrated the University’s achievements in the past half century and how it has been embracing its culture to empower the future.  Professor Sung then officiated the installation of eleven outstanding professors as the first batch of Choh-Ming Li Professors.  They are recognized for their long-term remarkable performance in teaching and research and outstanding contributions to the Faculty and University.  This new professorship is named after the late Dr Choh-Ming Li, a distinguished scholar and the founding Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong who laid the solid foundation of the University in its early years.  The Choh-Ming Li Professors will be provided with funds to support their academic and research pursuits during the appointment term of five years.  They are: 
Professor WONG Tak-jun
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Accountancy
Professor HAU Kit-tai
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Educational Psychology
Professor WONG Ching-ping
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Electronic Engineering
Professor YEUNG Wai-ho 
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Information Engineering
Professor ZHOU Xunyu
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management
Professor CHAN Ka-leung
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Medicine and Therapeutics 
Professor LAU Wan-yee Joseph 
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Surgery
Professor CHAN Hon-fu Raymond
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Mathematics
Professor CHAN Ngai-hang 
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Statistics
Professor XIE Zuowei 
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Chemistry
Professor CHEUNG Fanny Mui-ching 
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Psychology
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;id=145&amp;s=