[date]19 February 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Seventh CAS Academicians Visit Programme cum Lecture Series
Open for Online Registration[/title]
A delegation from the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) will visit The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) under the 7th 'CAS Academicians Visit Programme' from 25 to 28 February.  The delegation includes Prof. Shi Zhongci and Prof. Ou-Yang Zhong-can of the Division of Mathematics and Physics, Prof. Tung Chen-Ho of the Division of Chemistry, Prof. Chen Guoliang of the Division of Information Technological Sciences, Prof. Wu Guoxiong and Prof. Guo Huadong of the Division of Earth Sciences. 
The delegates will visit the Departments of Computer Science and Engineering, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics, Geography and Resource Management, Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability at CUHK and meet with relevant faculty members to exchange ideas and explore possibilities for further collaboration.  The six academicians will deliver the 'Lecture Series by Academicians' on 26 February to share their experience and expertise in their respective fields of research.  The lectures will be conducted in Putonghua. All are welcome. Interested parties please register at www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/cas_2014. 

CAS   Academicians
Lecture   Topics

Prof. Shi Zhongci
Some Aspects of Finite Element   Approximation for the Reissener-Mindlin Plates

Prof. Tung Chen-Ho
Converting Solar Energy into Chemical   Fuel — Photochemically Splitting Water into H2 and O2

Prof. Chen Guoliang
Research Methodology of Parallel   Computing

Prof. Wu Guoxiong
Impacts of the Tibetan Plateau on the   Formation and Variability of the Asian Summer Monsoon

Prof. Ou-Yang Zhong-can
Elastic Theory of Fluid Membranes of   Helfrich Model and its Application in Other Soft Matters: From Red Blood Cell   to Helical Carbon Nanotube and Icosahedral Virus Capsids

Prof. Guo Huadong
Scientific Big Data and Digital Earth

For more information about the Lecture Series by CAS Academicians, please visit www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/cas_2014 or call 3943-8728.
 