[date]30 December 2013[/date]
[title]Opening Ceremony of CUHK Shaw College Huen Wing Ming Building Multi-Purpose Learning Centre[/title]
The Opening Ceremony of Huen Wing Ming Building Multi-Purpose Learning Centre was recently held at Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).  The ceremony was officiated by Mr. Huen Wing-ming Patrick and his family members, Prof. Joseph J Y Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Mr. Clement Fung, Chairman of Board of Trustees, Shaw College; Prof. Andrew C F Chan, Head of Shaw College; and Mr. Nelson Lo, the President of Executive Committee of Student Union of Shaw College, and joined by over 120 guests, teachers and students of the College.  The Huen Wing Ming Building Multi-Purpose Learning Centre is equipped with up-to-date IT hardware and software to facilitate students' learning and knowledge exchange with people all over the world.  The facility also caters to the needs of the increasing number of students under the new four-year curriculum. 
Prof. Joseph Sung expressed his gratitude to Mr. Patrick Huen for his staunch support to Shaw College and the University over the years, 'With Mr. Huen's generous support, the University has set up Professorships in the Faculty of Engineering and the Faculty of Medicine, as well as the Stanley Ho Big Data Decision Analytics Research Centre.  The newly established Huen Wing Ming Building Multi-Purpose Learning Centre facilitates intellectual and cultural exchange among students and teachers.  It is an ideal place for new ideas to be generated.'
Prof. Andrew Chan introduced the three key concepts of the building -- 'H' for 'Human', 'W' for 'Worldwide Web' and 'M' for 'Magic' which is a combination of the former two elements. Professor Chan said the Centre would encourage students to make good use of internet resources to connect and interact with the world, and to nurture innovative minds.  He was thankful to Mr. Huen and his family for their generosity and kindness to provide the best resources for students in Shaw College and the University to achieve their goals.
Mr. Patrick Huen hoped that the new facility would help students grow in the information age.  He believed that the development of Big Data would transform the way people live, work and think.  Mr. Huen also encouraged students to spend quality time with friends in the Centre, and to relax their body and mind.  'Only with a peaceful mind can one be clear about one's own beliefs and values.  I wish all students could grow their wisdom, build lifelong friendships and strive to achieve excellence with a soul.' 
The Huen Wing Ming Building Multi-Purpose Learning Centre was established with the generous donation from Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Huen, Mr. and Mrs. Ian Huen, Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Man as well as the support from University Grants Committee, by converting the long wing of its visiting scholar flat Ya Qun Lodge in 2011.  With its bamboo-decorated glassy facade and minimal interior design, the building offers pleasant and refreshing ambience to users who can enjoy a stunning view of Tolo Harbour and natural light through its large glass panels. 
Since its launch in November 2012, the building and the Multi-Purpose Learning Centre have become a popular spot among students.  It does not only facilitate students' discussions and communication, but also provide them with advanced IT facilitates and wifi network for learning purposes.  It has also become an ideal venue for activities organized by the College and students, such as meetings between students and the Vice-Chancellor, the College Head and outstanding alumni, experience sharing sessions and other whole-person education activities.
 