[date]17 March 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Joins Hands with Local Community to Strengthen Neighbourhood Bonding[/title]
With the generous donation from Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation and the support of Sha Tin District Council, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ recently held a carnival in Sha Tin Park. CUHK students and beneficiaries of the programme surrounded the Shing Mun River hand in hand to form the letter ‘L’ that denoted ‘Love’, spreading the message of mutual support and care in the community. Officiating at the opening ceremony were Mr. Ho Hau-cheung, Chairman of the Sha Tin District Council; Ms. Ho Lai-sheung, Sha Tin District Officer; Dr. Katherine Lo, representative of Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation; and Co-Chairmen of the programme’s steering committee, Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and The Reverend Prof. Lo Lung-kwong, Director, Divinity School of Chung Chi College.  Members of the Sha Tin District Council and representatives from social service agencies in Shatin, Taipo and Ma On Shan also participated in the event.
CUHK students, the social service agencies and beneficiaries of the programme further arranged a number of performances, health talks and game booths in the Carnival to bring joy and fun to the local community.
About ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’
With a generous donation from Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation, CUHK launched the ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ in 2012.  It aims to encourage university students to care about and serve the underprivileged in neighbouring districts by organizing or participating in various service projects.  The Programme is initiated by Ms. Chau Hoi Shuen and orchestrated by the Divinity School of Chung Chi College, CUHK, in collaboration with various social service agencies and schools in Shatin, Taipo and Ma On Shan.  In the past one and a half year, the programme joined hands with 30 social service centres, schools, churches and hospitals to conduct 58 service learning projects.  Over 790 CUHK students participated in the projects and more than 2,500 underprivileged people were served.  The total number of service hours amounted to over 7,600. 
‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ will recruit more CUHK students to join and strengthen the training provided to them.  It is hoped that more well-organized services will be delivered to more people in need.  For more details about the Programme, please visit: www.cuhk.edu.hk/loveyn. 