[date]29 January 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Poon Wai-yin as Associate Vice-President[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Prof. Poon Wai-yin, Associate Dean of Science (Education) and Professor in the Department of Statistics, as Associate Vice-President for three years on a concurrent basis from 1 February 2014.  
Prof. Poon Wai-yin obtained her BSc in Mathematics in 1983 and MPhil in Statistics in 1985 from CUHK, PhD in Biostatistics from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1987, and MBA with Distinction from the University of Hull in 1996.  Professor Poon was appointed in 1987 as Lecturer in the Department of Statistics at CUHK, and promoted to Professor in 2001.  Since 2004, she has served as Associate Dean (Education) in the Faculty of Science, exerting leadership in teaching at faculty and university level.  She is also the Director of the Centre for Promoting Science Education, and Director of Centre for Learning Enhancement and Research (CLEAR), nurturing numerous talents in the science discipline over the past 25 years. 
Professor Poon said, 'The additional role provides me with further opportunities to contribute to the University's pursuit of excellence in teaching and learning.  The responsibilities are of paramount importance, and I will wholeheartedly and conscientiously serve my alma mater.' 
Professor Poon was the champion and leader in weaving an Outcomes Based Approach into the design of the new four-year curriculum for the entire Faculty of Science.  This was done by using published literature, benchmarking with international developments, conducting pilot, obtaining feedback and evidence, and demonstrating positive outcomes.  As a member of CUHK's Senate Committee on Teaching and Learning, Professor Poon has made important contributions, rooted in her own front-line teaching experience, to the strategic development of educational quality in the University. 
Professor Poon's outstanding teaching has earned her a number of accolades.  She was conferred the inaugural UGC Award for Teaching Excellence by the University Grants Committee in 2011.  She is also a recipient of the CUHK Faculty of Science Exemplary Teaching Award (1999-2000), (2002-03) and (2012-13), Best Teaching Award from the Asia Pacific Institute of Business, CUHK (2005-06) and (2008-09). 
Current Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellors will be retitled as Associate Vice-Presidents with effect from 1 February 2014.