[date]7 January 2014[/date]
[title]In memory of Dr. the Honourable Run Run Shaw[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) records with deep sadness the passing of Dr. the Honourable Run Run Shaw, GBM, Life Member of the Council and Patron of Shaw College, this morning (7 January 2014) at home, at the age of 107.
Prof. Joseph J. Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, was deeply saddened by the passing away of Dr. Shaw and praised Dr. Shaw for his support to education and research and for his loving care for students. 'Hong Kong has lost a major philanthropist as Dr. Shaw has passed away.  However, Dr. Shaw's legacy will live on through the many sustainable community initiatives he initiated with vigor.  Moreover, Dr. Shaw's achievements and contributions to society are exemplary for generations to come.  As the Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK and at one time Head of Shaw College, I will remember Dr. Shaw's lifelong devotion to the education and economic progress of Hong Kong, as well as his service to the University.  On behalf of all members of the University, I would like to express my deepest appreciation to Dr. Shaw for his unfailing support to CUHK's development over the years.'
Dr. Run Run Shaw was a world-renowned philanthropist and film and television magnate. He also took a keen interest in community service and was devoted to the education of young people on the mainland, in Hong Kong, and all over the world. Dr. Shaw's long association with the CUHK began as early as 1967, when he became a member of the Board of Trustees of United College. After serving as Chairman of United College and Member of the University Council for many years, Dr. Shaw was appointed the Honorary Chairman and a permanent trustee of the Board of United College in 1991, and a Life Member of the University Council in 1992.
Since 1967, Dr. Shaw has bestowed various generous gifts to the University, including a large auditorium and an academic building, and he also endowed a new College.  The creation of the fourth College at CUHK, Shaw College, was made possible by a donation of HK$110 million by Dr. Shaw in 1986. By endowing the College, Dr. Shaw had, at the time, made the largest single private donation to an educational institution in Hong Kong.  In April 2011, Dr. Shaw and The Shaw Foundation Hong Kong Limited made a magnanimous donation of shares of Television Broadcasts Limited of about HK$100 million in value to CUHK in support of the University's development, as well as the establishment of scholarships and bursaries for the students of Shaw College.  In July 2011, CUHK named its central laboratory building as the Run Run Shaw Science Building.  As a landmark of the University, the building was named after Dr. the Honourable Run Run Shaw in recognition of his abiding interest and generous support, and his wise counsels to CUHK over the years.  At the end of 2012, Dr. Shaw again through his Foundation made a generous donation in support of the University's educational initiatives in Shenzhen.  As the first private donation received by the University earmarked for the development of CUHK, Shenzhen, this donation was of particular significance in the strategic expansion of the University as a whole. 
In November 2002, an international award, the Shaw Prize was established to honour individuals who achieved distinguished and significant advances in the areas of astronomy, life science and medicine, and mathematical sciences. The Prize has been awarded annually since 2004.  Over the years, many Shaw Laureates have visited CUHK campus and carried out important academic and scholarly sharing of views and opinions with their counterparts at CUHK.
 