[date]1 March 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Held ‘Environment Fair 2014’ Today to Promote Sustainable Living[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (‘Gaia’) held the Environment Fair 2014 today (1 March) at Sunshine City Plaza in Ma On Shan.  The carnival featured various interactive information and fun games on the theme of ‘Green Living’, which attracted and were well-received by many citizens.  Officiating at the opening ceremony were Ms Anissa WONG, JP, Permanent Secretary for the Environment / Director of Environmental Protection, The Government of Hong Kong SAR; Mr Douglas SO, Executive Director, Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC); Prof. P. C. CHING, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President, and Chairman, Steering Committee for CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK); Dr Rebecca LEE, MH, Founder, Polar Museum Foundation; Mr David YEUNG, Founder, Green Monday; Mr HO Pui-shing, Principal, Tsang Pik Shan Secondary School; and Prof. Gabriel LAU, Director, Institute of Environment Energy and Sustainability, CUHK.
Prof. P. C. Ching, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, said, ‘Gaia has since its inception in 2012 organized a wide range of public education activities to promote environmental protection inHong Kong.  Last December, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC), the first of its kind inHong Kong, celebrated its grand opening.  Through its many interactive multimedia installations, the MoCC provides the visitors, especially students, with an interesting and educational experience.  The future of our environment hinges on our collective effort in adopting green lifestyles.  We hope the novel information offered at the Environment Fair will inspire you to join in the “green living” effort.’
Mr Douglas So, Executive Director, Charities of HKJC said the Club always supported green programmes in the community and he hoped the public could learn more about the latest green initiatives in Hong Kong through today’s activity, and would apply the green tips in daily life to build a more environmentally-friendly community.
The Environment Fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that promotes green concepts and messages to the public in the form of a carnival in which people of all ages can enjoy.  Ms Anissa Wong, Dr Rebecca Lee and Mr David Yeung shared theirs ideas on ‘Green Living’ and exchanged views with the audience.  Interesting interactive information and game booths were available at the Environment Fair.  For example, ‘Green Home Quiz’ brought out energy-saving and waste reduction tips, and ‘Green Wishes’ game motivated participants to pledge to protect the environment.
The event also invited local schools and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to showcase their green initiatives and achievements.  It was a valuable chance to let the public understand more about the various green efforts in the community.  St. James’ Settlement exhibited ‘upcycled’ products, Mission Healthy Greens introduced the public to the ‘low-carbon green lifestyle’, NgYukSecondary School―a member school of Gaia’s ‘Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme’―exhibited green artwork made from discarded materials, and students from another Go Green Community member W F Joseph Lee Primary School delivered green messages with a song composed by its teachers and students.  CUHK students also introduced their green projects awarded in the ‘13th National Challenge Cup Competition’.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future forHong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.