[date]18 December 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK SHKDI holds Dr. Li Dak Sum Shanghai-Hong Kong Development Lecture and Cheque Presentation Ceremony Today
Mr. Andrew Sheng Speaks on Financial Development in Shanghai and Hong Kong[/title]
The Shanghai-Hong Kong Development Institute (SHKDI) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held the ‘Dr. Li Dak Sum Shanghai-Hong Kong Development Lecture and Cheque Presentation Ceremony’ on campus today (18 December).  Dr. Li Dak Sum, advisor of Sharp-Roxy (HK) Ltd; Mr. Andrew Sheng, President of Fung Global Institute; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; and Prof. Sung Yun Wing, Co-Director of SHKDI attended the ceremony.
Dr. Li Dak Sum has made a generous donation of HK$5 million to SHKDI to support its research on Shanghai-Hong Kong and academic exchange for five years.  The Institute also invites renowned scholars on Shanghai-Hong Kong research to give lectures at CUHK regularly.  This lecture series is named after Dr. Li Dak Sum in recognition of his generous support.
After the ceremony, CUHK was privileged to welcome Mr. Andrew Sheng as the guest speaker for the first Dr.Li Dak Sum Shanghai-Hong Kong Development Lecture. He presented a lecture on ‘Financial Development in Shanghai and Hong Kong’, drawing an audience of over a hundred academics, students, members of financial sector and the public.  Mr. Andrew Sheng examined the dynamics of China’s financial market reforms and the roles Shanghai and Hong Kong can play to further that policy objective in the lecture.
Mr. Andrew Sheng is the President of Fung Global Institute, a Hong Kong based global think tank. He is well known as a former central banker and financial regulator in Asia and a commentator on global finance. He is also the Chief Adviser to the China Banking Regulatory Commission and a Board Member of the Government of Malaysia's strategic investment fund. In addition, he serves as a member of the International Advisory Council of the China Investment Corporation, the China Development Bank, the Advisory Council on Shanghai as an International Financial Centre and the International Council of the Freie University, Berlin.
He served as Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong from 1998 to 2005, having previously been a central banker with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Central Bank of Malaysia.
Mr. Sheng has published widely on monetary, economics and financial issues. In April 2013, he was named by TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world.
Attachment: Speech of Mr. Andrew Sheng