[date]27 February 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Stage 'Environment Fair 2014' to Promote Sustainable Living
All are Welcome[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia ('Gaia') will hold the Environment Fair 2014 this Saturday (1 March) at Sunshine City Plaza in Ma On Shan.  The Fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that promotes green concepts and messages to the public in the form of a carnival in which people of all ages can enjoy.  Aside from plentiful interactive information and fun games on this year's theme 'Green Living', the event also features a sharing session in which distinguished guests will contribute their ideas and experience on the theme and exchange ideas and interact with the audience, including Ms Anissa WONG, Permanent Secretary for the Environment / Director of Environmental Protection, The HKSAR Government; Dr Rebecca LEE, Founder of Polar Museum Foundation, and Mr David YEUNG, Founder of Green Monday.  All members of the public are welcome.  Admission is free. 
Ms Anissa WONG; Mr Douglas SO, Executive Director, Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club; Prof. P. C. CHING, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Chairman, Steering Committee for CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia; Dr Rebecca LEE; Mr David YEUNG; Mr HO Pui-shing, Principal, Tsang Pik Shan Secondary School; and Prof. Gabriel LAU, Director, Institute of Environment Energy and Sustainability, CUHK, will officiate at the opening ceremony of the Environment Fair 2014. 
The event will also see active participation from many local schools and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who will showcase their green initiatives and achievements.  St. James' Settlement will exhibit 'upcycled' products; Mission Healthy Greens will introduce the public to the low-carbon green lifestyle; Ng Yuk Secondary School, a member school of Gaia's 'Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme', will exhibit green artwork made from discarded materials; and students from W F Joseph Lee Primary School, also a member of the Go Green Community, will deliver green messages with a song composed by its teachers and students.  CUHK students will also introduce their green projects awarded in the 13th National Challenge Cup Competition. 
Interesting interactive information and game booths will be available at the Environment Fair, including an interactive eco-game 'Green Home Quiz' that brings out energy-saving and waste reduction tips, and the 'Green Wishes' game that motivates participants to pledge to protect the environment. 
Details of the Environment Fair are as follows: 
Date:   Saturday, 1 March 2014Time:   1:30 pm – 5:00 pmVenue: L2 Atrium No. A &amp; B, Sunshine City Plaza, Ma On Shan,            Shatin 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the 'Three Poles' (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust's initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.