[date]3 April 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK and Harvard Establish Collaboration in Research, Education and Training to Promote Human Health and Well-being[/title]
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) have entered a new era of collaboration by signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) today (3 April) on CUHK campus.  Both institutions are committed to protecting and improving public health with the highest professional standards on education and research, and advancing the public's health through learning, discovery and communication. The MOU will strengthen the cooperation between the two institutions in public health research and education via faculty and student exchanges. It is also the first MOU signed between the two internationally renowned universities. 
The signing ceremony for this three-year agreement was officiated by Prof. Francis Chan, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK and Prof. Julio Frenk, Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health; and witnessed by Prof. Fanny Cheung, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President, CUHK; Prof. E.K. Yeoh, Director of the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, CUHK; as well as over 100 CUHK members and delegates from HSPH.  The visit of HSPH to the mainland China and Hong Kong is a part of its centennial celebratory events.  CUHK is the first stop of HSPH's 3-day Hong Kong visit, which demonstrates both parties' commitment to this cooperation.  This collaboration also signifies HSPH's perpetuating efforts in public health issues in Greater China. 
Prof. Fanny Cheung congratulated the collaboration between CUHK and the Harvard University on the common grounding of advancing public health for all people.  Professor Cheung said, 'This MOU lays a solid foundation for future collaborations between these two great universities pioneering in state-of-the-science research, education, training and knowledge exchange, in the field of public health in particular.' 
Prof. Julio Frenk was glad to strengthen HSPH's involvement in improving public health in China via this collaboration with CUHK, where many HSPH alumni are now conducting public health research and education. 
Through signing this MOU, Prof. Francis Chan envisioned the agreement will facilitate exchanges of academic staff and students with HSPH in common fields of study, 'Our Faculty will work closely with HSPH on potential collaborations of joint research and educational activities between the two institutions, for the benefits of professors, research teams and students of the two great education institutions.' 
In conjunction with the MOU signing ceremony, a joint lecture on 'What have we learnt regarding disaster preparedness and resilience building in health emergency in rural China?' was given by Prof. Emily Chan, Director of the Collaborating Centre for Oxford University and CUHK for Disaster and Medical Humanitarian Response and Centre for Global Health of CUHK; Prof. Jennifer Leaning, Director of the François-Xavier Bagnoud Centre for Health and Human Rights; and Prof. Michael VanRooyen, Director of the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative of Harvard University. 
The speakers shared insights and critical perspectives on health emergency in China, while Prof. Emily Chan, a HSPH alumna, introduced the experience on a health education field trip with Prof. Jennifer Leaning to the remote rural Hongyan Village in Sichuan Province of China just before the ceremony to kick start the first collaborative project in research and education programme between the two institutions. 
With the synergies between CUHK and Harvard University, the two schools will continue to promote knowledge transfer to the next level, and contribute to the advancement of public health for all people.
 