[date]4 December 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Establishes State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease 
to Improve Diagnosis and Treatment of Digestive Diseases[/title]
Approved by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has established another new state key laboratory – the State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease (Partner Laboratory in The Chinese University of Hong Kong), in partnership with the Fourth Military Medical University (FMMU). The new Laboratory aims to promote research and improve diagnosis and treatment of digestive diseases in Hong Kong and mainland China through the collaboration between the two institutions. 
The plaque-unveiling ceremony of the Laboratory was held today (4 December), Prof. Cao Jianlin, Vice Minister of Science and Technology; Mr. Wang Zhi-min, Deputy Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in HKSAR; Miss Janet Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology, HKSAR Government; Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; and Prof. Wu Kaichun, Deputy Director of State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology officiated at the ceremony. 
At the ceremony, Vice Minister Cao congratulated CUHK on the establishment of the Laboratory. He believes the Laboratory would further enhance exchange between scholars and scientists in Hong Kong and the mainland China to foster collaborative research efforts. 
'The University has once again gained state approval to establish a state key laboratory here in Hong Kong, which showed commendation on and recognition of our research endeavors. By teaming up with the Fourth Military Medical University, we can complement each other and maximize our respective strength in digestive disease research,' said Professor Sung, taking pride in the establishment as the Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and director of the newly established State Key Laboratory. 
The Laboratory will be housed in the CUHK Li Ka Shing Medical Sciences Building. CUHK and FMMU, both leaders in digestive disease research, have established a long collaborative relationship, laying a solid foundation for the Laboratory. With the vision to bring research development to new heights and benefit mankind, the Laboratory will carry out basic, translational and clinical research on the gastrointestinal cancer, peptic ulcer bleeding, chronic liver disease and inflammatory bowel disease. 
The establishment of the State Key Laboratory will strengthen ties between scholars of Hong Kong and mainland China toward long and sustainable collaboration and help bring the research development to new heights of excellence, as well as further strengthen China's position in terms of digestive disease research.
 