[date]20 January 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold the ‘New Thinking in Waste Management’ Forum this Friday
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold a forum entitled ‘New Thinking in Waste Management’ at Hong Kong Productivity Council this Friday (24 January).  As a part of the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’, the forum will gather academic and environmental experts to discuss and share their insights of waste management in Hong Kong.
Prof. Jonathan WONG, Professor of the Department of Biology at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and President of the Asia-Pacific Association for Sustainable Solid Waste Management, will deliver a keynote speech at the forum on new directions for waste management in Hong Kong.  Professor Wong is an environmental scientist specializing in waste management, composting of organic wastes, sludge reutilization, contaminated site remediation and rehabilitation, as well as organic standard and certification system development.  He is currently Director of the Hong Kong Organic Resource Centre and Director of Sino-Forest Applied Research Centre for Pearl River Delta Environment.  In addition, Mr. Luther WONG, Chief Executive Officer of C&amp;G Environmental Technology Ltd, and Mr. Angus WONG, Policy Advocacy Manager of World Green Organisation, will also share their views on the topic and interact with the participants.
The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.  Limited seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis.  Interested parties can register at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future forHong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
Rising environmental awareness, together with the proactive policies implemented by the government, has inspired the community to advocate for environmental protection.  In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in pro-environment activities, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia organizes the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’.  Experts and practitioners from different fields and the public are involved to confer on the best ways to deal with environmental challenges and impacts of climate change.
Also under the programme is the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change which presents the 'Three Poles' collection of renownedHong Kongexplorer Dr Rebecca Lee (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest), innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust's endeavours contributing to the improvement of the environment. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.