[date]5 March 2014[/date]
[title]Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme 2013/2014
Chung Chi College
The Chinese University of Hong Kong[/title]
The Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows Programme is one of the major annual academic events of Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.  With aims of promoting academic and cultural interchange on campus and broadening intellectual horizons of College staff members as well as students, the Visiting Fellows Programme was first launched in 1982 with generous donations of the late Mrs. Siu Lien Ling Wong.  In the past 30 years, many world prestigious and respectable scholars from various academic fields such as Professor C.N. Yang, Nobel Laureate in Physics; Mr. Xiao Qian, a famous author from the Mainland; Professor Yau Shing Tung, Professor of Mathematics of Harvard University, and Professor Pai Hsien-yung Kenneth, Professor Emeritus, Department of East Asian Languages &amp; Cultural Studies of the University of California, Santa Barbara, USA, were invited to visit the College for several weeks as the College Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellows. 
This year, Chung Chi College is very honoured to have invited Professor Chen Xuemei, member of National Academy of Sciences, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator and Furuta Chair Professor of Plant Cell and Molecular Biology, University of California, Riverside, USA, to serve as the Siu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2013/2014.  During her visit from 11 to 15 March 2014, Professor Chen will be meeting College staff in a series of activities including the Annual Education Conference, College Life Luncheon Talk, College Assembly and Tolo Nocturne, etc. 
The Annual Education Conference of Chung Chi College is the highlight among activities of Professor Chen's visit to Chung Chi College. Details of the Conference are as follows: 

Theme:
"Fate and Choice: Order of Life and the Universe"

Date:
15 March 2014 (Sat)

Time:
10:00 am – 12:30 pm

Venue:
Chung Chi College Chapel, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Panelists:
Professor Chen XuemeiSiu Lien Ling Wong Visiting Fellow 2013/2014, Chung Chi College; member of National Academy of Sciences; Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator; Furuta Chair Professor of Plant Cell and Molecular Biology, University of California, Riverside, USAProfessor Chow King LauProfessor, Division of Life Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and TechnologyProfessor Chu Ming ChungProfessor, Department of Physics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Moderator:
Professor Jiang LiwenProfessor, School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Language:
Putonghua and Cantonese

The event is also open to the public.  For more details, please contact Ms. Ruby Ko at 3943 6444 or visit the website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/ccc/edu-conference/. For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Ruby Ko at 3943 6444 or Ms. Yvonne Mak at 3943 6449. 
Encl.    1. Schedule of Activities            2. Biographical Sketch of Professor Chen Xuemei