[date]19 March 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK School of Architecture to Hold Exhibition and Roundtable on 'Macau: Cross-Border Cities'
All are Welcome[/title]
The School of Architecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold an exhibition on the theme of ‘Macau: Cross-Border Cities’ from 24 March to 4 April 2014 to present the results of a research conducted by Harvard Graduate School of Design and sponsored by AECOM, the leading design and engineering consultancy.  The exhibition is aimed at facilitating ideas exchange among leading academics,  practitioners and students on architectural typologies and common emerging urban frameworks found in developmental cities.  An opening reception and roundtable panel discussion will be held on 24 March from 5:30 to 7:30 pm where interested members of the public are welcome.  Please call CUHK School of Architecture at 3943-6586 for details. 
What does Macau have in common with cities which are on the frontier of mainland China?  What are the common frameworks that bind the developmental cities of today? These questions form the core of the three-year collaboration between AECOM and Harvard Graduate School of Design which commenced in the Fall of 2012, namely the   ‘Harvard Graduate School of Design-AECOM | China Studio’.  The programme is the first-of-its-kind collaboration between Harvard Graduate School of Design and AECOM. 
Macau is one of the case studies conducted by the programme.  Prof. Christopher Lee, Associate Professor in Practice of Urban Design, Harvard Graduate School of Design, and students travelled to the city from September to December 2013, and held workshops with local planners, architects, professors and fellow students to study the sites, discuss issues facing the city and look at possible design approaches.  Students also toured the city to understand its unique culture, history and urban condition.  Their research results will be exhibited at the School of Architecture at CUHK.  Details are as follows: 
Exhibition Period:  24 March to 4 April 2014Opening Hours:     Monday – Friday   9:00AM – 5:30PM                              Saturday             10:00AM – 6:00PM                              Closed on SundaysExhibition Venue:   Atrium. An Integrated Teaching Building, CUHK                                (near Exit D of University MTR Station)