[date]14 April 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Receives Triple Recognition for Web Accessibility[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) (www.cuhk.edu.hk) receives three top honours in the Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme 2014, including a Gold Award each in the Website Stream and the Mobile Application Stream, and being voted one of the ‘My Favourite Websites’.  The University was represented by Provost Prof. Benjamin Wah in the award presentation ceremony which took place at the Central Government Offices today (14 April). 
The recognition scheme was organized jointly by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer and the Equal Opportunities Commission to encourage website accessibility among organizations in various industries and sectors, and to showcase corporations that have demonstrated outstanding efforts in facilitating access to their websites.
Commenting on the award, Professor Wah said, ‘The Chinese University has made every effort in maintaining and enhancing our website accessibility since we received the Gold Award for the first time last year.  We are happy to have received three top recognitions this year.  The design of a barrier-free website and mobile application is in line with the University’s philosophy of providing open access to information.  Encouraged by the community’s support, we will continue to strengthen the contents and accessibility of our corporate website to make it more informative and convenient to users.’
The award presentation ceremony was officiated by Miss Susie Ho Shuk-yee, Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development (Communications and Technology), and well attended by representatives from award winning enterprises, NGOs, educational institutions and public sector organizations.
The Gold Award is the highest accolade in the Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme.  It is presented to organizations whose websites and mobile applications have fulfilled 24 and 18 judging criteria, respectively. These criteria include meaningfully sequenced and structured contents, clear headings and informative links, and high compatibility with assistive technologies to facilitate smooth navigation. The colour contrast of text and images, font size options and use of sign language should address the need of all users, including people with disabilities and the seniors.
The ‘Most Favourite Websites’ is introduced this year and awarded to three from among over 90 gold award winning websites.  Members from the public, including those from various needy groups, are invited by the Government to vote for their favourite websites.