[date]15 April 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents 2013 Long Service Awards to 102 Members of Staff
Two Awardees Share Unforgettable Experience at CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2013 Long Service Awards to 102 staff members who have been with the University for 25 and 35 years. Eighty-eight received the award for having worked at CUHK for 25 years and fourteen, for 35 years. The awards ceremony was officiated by Vice-Chancellor and President Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung.
Prof. Joyce Ma Lai-chong
Prof. Joyce Ma joined the Department of Social Work at CUHK in 1988.  She is currently Professor and Chairperson of the Department.  Professor Ma has found joy in helping others long ago that put her on a path to a social work career.  She interned as a social worker at United Christian Hospital when she was in her third year at university.  After graduation, she joined the psychiatric clinic of the Hospital as a medical social worker for seven years.  Professor Ma subsequently pursued further studies in social work, and started teaching mental health for social work students at CUHK.
Professor Ma’s research interests include family therapy and mental health. She spearheaded the introduction of family therapy and family group to Hong Kong, which provide a platform for dialogue and sharing of feelings among young people suffering from mental health problems and their families.  So far family therapy has successfully helped many families of patients, which greatly encouraged Professor Ma in her pursuit.  Besides, she raised funds for the establishment of the Family and Group Practice Research Centre of the Department and has served as the director, laying the theoretical and practical foundation of family therapy and group work in Hong Kong.  Recently she has received three grants from Research Grants Council to support her research in the effectiveness of family therapy for eating disorders in Shenzhen and Hong Kong, as well as attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder patients.
Over the years, Professor Ma has cultivated a large number of social welfare professionals.  Many of her students have become senior officers of the Social Welfare Department and NGOs, contributing to society in different ways.  As challenges for social workers have increasingly stiffer, Professor Ma advises that social work students should widen their scope of vision to face the complex society.
Mr. Lee Chung-ho
Mr. Lee Chung-ho is a Works Supervisor of the Building Services Section, Estate Management Office (EMO) at CUHK, responsible for maintenance of machinery and ironware.  Mr. Lee is considered a locksmith master in Hong Kong.  He has been appointed by the Daily Hardware Committee of Experts of the Ministry of Science and Technology as a committee member since 2006, and has served as Honorary Chairman and Chairman of Technical Advisory Committee of the Associated Locksmiths of Hong Kong SAR China.  Mr. Lee invented an advanced locksmith tool which received HK$100,000 patent application grant from the Innovation and Technology Commission as well as a patent in China.  He has resolved numerous locks fixing challenges on CUHK campus and has been teaching his trade to EMO colleagues.
Mr. Lee developed his interest in locksmithing after he joined CUHK in 1989.  He became a member of the Hong Kong branch of the Associated Locksmiths of America in 1990 and has been able to invent locksmith tools after a few years of study.  In 2006, Mr. Lee was sponsored by the University for a short-term study in the US.  He has been invited to host technical seminars at locksmith associations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Taiwan and mainland China, boosting development of the profession.
Mr. Lee is also a member of Magicians’ Association of Hong Kong.  He was invited to perform magic tricks in various CUHK activities including staff parties and Vice-Chancellor’s Mid-Autumn Festival gatherings.
About Long Service Award
The 25-year Long Service Award, introduced in 1988, has been given to 988 staff members. The 35-year Long Service Award, inaugurated in 2008, has been given to 99 staff members including fourteen this year.