[date]6 March 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor Hau Kit-tai Elected AERA Fellow[/title]
Prof. Hau Kit-tai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Choh-Ming Li Professor of Educational Psychology at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), has been elected a fellow of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) in recognition of his significant contributions to education research and to the advancement of the field.  AERA is the largest professional organization devoted to the scientific study of education in the US.  Professor Hau will be inducted during the AERA 2014 Annual Meeting in Philadelphia in April.  Among the over 300 fellows, it is the first time that a scholar from Hong Kong has been elected.
Prof. Hau Kit-tai joined CUHK in 1988 and had been the Chairman of the Department of Educational Psychology for 13 years.  He is currently the President of the Division of Educational, Instructional and School Psychology at the International Association of Applied Psychology.  He received his BSc and MA degrees from CUHK and pursued further studies at the University of Hong Kong where he received his PhD (psychology) degree.
Professor Hau's research interest includes motivation, self-concept and quantitative methods and he has published extensively in major international academic journals.  He also spares no effort in enhancing education in Hong Kong by actively serving on various government and community advisory boards in curriculum and youth development.  Over the last 15 years, he has conducted over 100 national advanced applied statistics workshops in mainland China to promote empirical research in social sciences and education.
The AERA Fellows Program honours education researchers with substantial research accomplishments, conveys the Association’s commitment to excellence in research, and enables the next generation of emerging scholars to appreciate the value of sustained achievements in research and the breadth of scholarship worthy of recognition.  Fellows are nominated by their peers, selected and recommended by the Fellows Committee, and approved by the AERA Council, the Association’s elected governing group.
About AERA
Founded in 1916, AERA advances knowledge about education, encourages scholarly inquiry related to education, and promotes the use of research to improve education and serve the public good.  AERA's more than 25,000 members are faculty, researchers, graduate students, and other distinguished professionals with rich and diverse expertise in education research.