[date]17 February 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Shaw College Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar Lecture 2013-14
Prof. Daisy HUNG, Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, Taiwan Central University to Speak on 'Brain and Life'
Now Open for Public Registration[/title]
Prof. Daisy L. HUNG, Professor, Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, Central University, Taiwan and Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar 2013-14, will speak on 'Brain and Life' (大腦與人生) at Shaw College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) next Wednesday (26 February).
Human brain is an evolving circuit responsive to the changes from outside world. Neuroscientists can observe the regeneration of the cells in the hippocampus that plays important roles for consolidation of information from short-term to long-term memory.  The fact supports the importance of life-long learning and denies the cliché 'Lose at the starting line'.  Professor Hung is of the opinion that human being's emotion is the interpretation of circumstances by one's cognition, and therefore transforming the mind can lead to the change of life.  Members of the public are welcome to join the lecture.  Admission is free.  Interested parties please register at https://cloud.itsc.cuhk.edu.hk/webform/view.php?id=114642. 
Prof. Daisy Hung graduated from Taiwan University in 1969 and then obtained her PhD from the University of California, Riverside in the US. Afterwards she took up a number of professional positions in the US, such as Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Haskins Laboratory, New Haven in Connecticut; National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow – Medical School of the University of California, Irvine; Visiting Research Scientist at The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, San Diego; as well as Research Associate Professor, University of California, Riverside. 
In 1992, Professor Hung returned to Taiwan and taught at the Department of Psychology of Chung Cheng University.  Currently she is Professor, Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, College of Science, Taiwan Central University; and Director of the Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience at Taiwan Yang-Ming University.
Professor Hung has translated over 50 books about biotechnology and psychology to disseminate scientific knowledge to the public.  She also believes that reading is the base of education underpinning a country. Therefore she has been striving for advocating reading habit among students by visiting almost 1,000 primary and secondary schools across Taiwan.  Professor Hung has received a number of awards and prizes including: Outstanding Chinese Leadership Award of the Lifetime achievement (2011); The Golden Bookmark Prize for Pop Science Books of 2010, Translation Category, Wu Ta-You Foundation (for the book Mirroring People); 2006 Man of the Year in Publishing Field; Special contribution Award by Teco Science and Technology Foundation; The 10 Best Books of 1998 and 2000, Translation Category, China Times Book Review bulletin (for the books Why We Age and The Nurture Assumption: Why Children Turn Out the Way They Do respectively) 
Since 1989, CUHK Shaw College has been organizing the Sir Run Run Shaw Distinguished Visiting Scholar Lecture to invite an internationally distinguished scholar or individual to visit the College and give lectures annually.  Past visiting scholars included Prof. YANG Chen-ning, Prof. LEE Yuan-tseh, Prof. YAU Shing-tung, Prof. HO Ping-ti, Prof. Andrew YAO, Prof. Charles KAO, Prof. Deborah DAVIS, Prof. XUGuanhua, Prof. Harry LEWIS, Prof. David C.L. LIU and Prof. Richard DAVIDSON etc. 
Details of the lecture are as follows:

Date:
Wednesday, 26 February 2014

Time:
5:00 pm

Venue:
Lecture Theatre, Shaw College, CUHK, Shatin

Language:
Mandarin (with English interpretation)

Transportation:
Shuttle bus will depart the University MTR station at 4:25pm and 4:40pm to the venue

Registration:
https://cloud.itsc.cuhk.edu.hk/webform/view.php?id=114642

Enquiries:
Ms Fiona HO (Tel: 3943 8538 or email: fionaho@cuhk.edu.hk)

 