[date]21 January 2014[/date]
[title]The New Asia History Gallery Opens[/title]
To pay tribute to the founders and unveil the different perspectives of the oldest college of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the New Asia College has established the History Gallery.  It is now open to the public. 
New Asia College was founded under extreme adversity over six decades ago.  With very limited resources and a strong sense of mission, Ch'ien Mu, Tang Chun-I, Tchang Pikai and other scholars established the Asia College of Arts and Commerce in 1949 in Kweilin Street, Sham Shui Po, which was then restructured into New Asia College in 1950.  With the aid of the Yale-in-China Association, the College moved to its Farm Road premises in 1956.  In 1963, New Asia College became one of the constituent colleges of CUHK, and was moved to the Shatin campus in 1973. 
The Gallery displays a collection of rarely seen exhibits from the early periods, including student identification cards, graduation certificates, manuscript of the College Anthem by Ch'ien Mu, and many more.  Old furnitures from the Kweilin Street period are also on display, allowing visitors to experience the learning environment of the old days.  Apart from the Gallery, the College has also established the New Asia Online History Archives and digitalized its publications.  Through various history related projects, the College hopes to unite students, teachers and alumni, and to strengthen the understanding of the origin, development and educational goals of the College. 
Despite the drizzle, the opening ceremony of the Gallery was smoothly held in front of the Ch'ien Mu Library, officiated by Mr. Leung Ying-wai Charles, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College; Prof. Shun Kwong-loi, Head of New Asia College; Prof. Chan Sun-on, Associate Head of New Asia College; Mr. Lam Wing-tak Bill, trustee of New Asia College and supporter of the History Gallery Project; Mr. Wong Ho-chiu, President of the New Asia College Alumni Association; and Ms. Mak Ho-yin, President of the New Asia College Student Union.  After the lion dance performance by the New Asia Chinese Kung Fu Club, over 70 guests excitedly joined the guided tour led by Prof. Chan Sun-on, Associate Head of New Asia College. 
The New Asia History Gallery is located at the ground floor of Cheng Ming Building, New Asia College and is now open to public.  Opening hours are as follows: 
Mondays to Fridays:   9:30 am – 4:30 pmSaturdays:                  9:30am – 12 noonClosed on Sundays &amp; public holidaysEnquires:       3943-7609 / nac@cuhk.edu.hkHomepage:    history.na.cuhk.edu.hk
 
 
 