[date]11 March 2014[/date]
[title]Inaugural Lecture of Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professorship in Clinical Oncology by Prof. Tony Mok
'Declaration of War Against Lung Cancer'[/title]
Prof. Tony S.K. Mok, Professor in Department of Clinical Oncology at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), delivered his inaugural lecture today (11 March) as Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professor of Clinical Oncology titled 'Declaration of War Against Lung Cancer'.  
Fighting cancer is like fighting a war.  Unfortunately we have been losing the battle against lung cancer for many years. Global casualties from lung cancer amounted to 1 million in 2011. Only in recent years, with the development of molecular targeted therapy, have we begun to gain some ground in this tough fight.  In the lecture, Prof. Tony Mok expounded the mechanism of molecular targeted therapy, which can be used to target the tumor by understanding the molecular profile of each individual lung cancer.  In future, Professor Mok hopes to optimize treatment for patients with known driver oncogene by sophisticated detection, strategy on combination therapy and combating resistance. 
Professor Mok also urged doctors, patients, families, advocates, researchers, pharmaceutical companies and governments to join hands and develop novel strategies in research and care delivery. He believed that only with such an effort will we eventually be the victors in this war against lung cancer. 
Prof. Tony S.K. Mok was trained at the University of Alberta and subsequently completed a fellowship in medical oncology at the Princess Margaret Hospital in Canada. He returned to Hong Kong in 1996 to pursue an academic career. He is now a Professor in the Department of Clinical Oncology at CUHK. 
His main research interest focuses on biomarker and molecular targeted therapy in lung cancer. He co-founded the Lung Cancer Research Group, and has led a number of important multinational clinical trials, which include the IRESSA Pan-Asia Study (IPASS), a landmark study that established the role of first-line gefitinib in patients with EGFR mutation. 
He is active and experienced in serving academic societies. He is President of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC), Former Chair of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) International Affairs Committee, Chairman of the Hong Kong Cancer Therapy Society and Vice President of the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO). He is closely affiliated with the oncology community in China, and has received an Honorary Professorship at Guangdong Province People's Hospital, a Guest Professorship at Peking University School of Oncology and a Visiting Professorship at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Professor Mok is the recipient of the 2013 Addario Lectureship Award bestowed by The Bonnie J Addario Lung Cancer Foundation at the 14th International Lung Cancer Congress, in recognition of his pioneering efforts in lung cancer research to combat cancer. 
Professor Mok has contributed to over 180 articles in international peer review journals, including The New England Journal of Medicine, Science, Lancet and Journal of Clinical Oncology, and contributed to multiple editorials and textbooks. He is an Associate Editor of Journal of Clinical Oncology and Asia Pacific Journal of Clinical Oncology. He has also authored six books in Chinese and hosted three television series in Hong Kong. 
About Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professorship in Clinical Oncology 
The Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation established two Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professorships in Clinical Oncology at the CUHK Faculty of Medicine in February 2013 and February 2014 in support of academic research in clinical oncology and in memory of the late Dr. Li Shu Fan.  Each professorship lasts for a period of ten years.  The incumbents of the Professorship are Prof. Anthony Chan Tak-cheung and Prof. Tony Mok from the Department of Clinical Oncology at CUHK.
 
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=167&amp;s=