[date]9 December 2013[/date]
[title]Celebrating 50 Years of Excellence: 
CUHK Hosts Golden Jubilee University Presidents’ Forum 
About 40 Leading University Heads Gather at CUHK to Promote Intercultural and Multicultural Exchanges in Universities[/title]
As a major event of its 50th anniversary celebrations, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) hosted the 'Golden Jubilee University Presidents' Forum' from 6 to 8 December 2013 on campus. Some 40 leaders of higher learning from 14 countries and regions took part in this key educational event to engage in a high-level dialogue to promote intercultural and multicultural exchanges in universities. Among the participants include heads from the University of Cambridge, University of Oxford, the University of Sydney, ETH Zurich, Peking University and Fudan University.
The Presidents' Forum was officiated by Mr. Edward Cheng, Chairman, University Grants Committee. He congratulated the Chinese University on its academic and research achievements as it celebrates its golden jubilee. 'In its short history, the University has succeeded in establishing its remarkable reputation as a leading university - locally here in Hong Kong and the Mainland; regionally in Asia; and globally throughout the World.  It is a marvelous achievement in a relatively short time and which is the envy of many, but replicated by very, very few,' remarked Mr. Cheng.
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK remarked, 'As an ideal platform to epitomize our mission to bring together China and the West, the Chinese University is honoured to draw together the top brains from the East and the West to discuss strategic issues related to intercultural and multicultural exchanges in universities, an area of growing concern with internationalization gaining strength in higher education in all corners of the world. Apart from fostering global partnerships, the synergy generated by the Forum will point the way for the future development of global higher education, promoting advancement in university education, expanding the frontiers of learning and research, and cultivating global citizens for the benefit of mankind.'
During the Forum, university heads exchanged views on three keynotes given by world-renowned leaders of seats of learning—'Global Citizenship: the Role of University Education' delivered by Dr. Phyllis Wise, Chancellor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; 'University Policies and Strategies: China and the World' delivered by Prof. Zhang Jie, President, Shanghai Jiao Tong University; and 'Partnerships and Collaborations: Universities, Governments and Community' delivered by Prof. Andrew Hamilton, Vice-Chancellor, University of Oxford.
In the first keynote, Dr. Phyllis Wise pointed out that collaborations and partnerships that cross disciplines and jump borders to solve the increasingly complex global problems are necessary. As today's students who will ultimately be the ones to face and resolve these challenges live in a world where they move seamlessly geographically and socially, university leaders have the responsibility to create the models and build the networks of education that will give them the tools and the opportunities to excel.
Prof. Zhang Jie discussed the national educational initiatives and reforms in China in the second keynote, and specifically how mainland Chinese universities have engaged in international collaborations and performed as the engine and source of innovation to promote an innovative country.
The third keynote saw Prof. Andrew Hamilton exploring the relationship that exists between universities and their communities. Taking into account the different expectations set by the nations and the regional communities as well as the mission and core principles that universities set for themselves, he discussed the extent of compromise between notions of academic freedom and public duty.
Since its inception five decades ago, CUHK has been committed to cross-fertilizing the best of the Chinese and Western academic and cultural traditions in its education programmes and research. In its continuous pursuit of internationalization to promote academic and research excellence, the University has established over 520 international collaboration programmes with some 300 institutions in 34 countries/regions for research collaborations, faculty exchanges, joint teaching, and student mobility.