[date]19 December 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK Dean of Engineering Wong Ching-ping Elected Foreign CAE Academician[/title]
Prof. Wong Ching-ping, Dean, Faculty of Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), has been elected a foreign academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE), in recognition of his remarkable contributions in the field of electronic engineering.  The same honour has been bestowed on a few eminent Chinese-American scholars including Pei Ieoh-ming, David Da-i Ho and Yang Tzu-yow. 
Professor Wong said, ‘I am greatly honoured to have been elected a foreign academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.  I am particularly grateful to my research team and working partners over the years for their ongoing support.’ 
Professor Wong Ching-ping is a world-renowned scholar in electronic and material engineering, a member of the US National Academy of Engineering, and Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).  He received his BS degree from Purdue University, and his MS and PhD degrees from the Pennsylvania State University.  After his doctoral study, he was awarded a postdoctoral fellowship under Nobel laureate Prof. Henry Taube at Stanford University.  He was with AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories for many years and became an AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories Fellow in 1992.  Prior to joining CUHK, Prof. Wong was a Regents’ Professor and the Charles Smithgall Institute Endowed Chair at the School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology. 
Widely recognized as an academic giant, Professor Wong’s research interests lie in the fields of polymeric electronic materials, electronic, photonic and MEMS packaging and interconnect, interfacial adhesions, and nano-functional material syntheses and characterizations.  He is considered an industry legend and has made significant contributions to the industry by pioneering new materials, which fundamentally changed the semiconductor packaging technology.  With excellent achievements in both teaching and research, Professor Wong has successfully motivated and nurtured numerous inquisitive young minds over the years.  He is also committed to serving the industry by being the President of the IEEE Components, Packaging and Manufacturing Technology (CPMT) Society in 1992 and 1993.  As a distinguished scholar, Professor Wong was awarded numerous international honours, such as the Dresden Barkhausen Award, Sigma Xi’s Monie Ferst Award, IEEE CPMT Field Award and David Feldman Outstanding Contributions Award, the IEEE Third Millennium Medal, and the IEEE EAB Education Award.  He also received the Georgia Tech Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award, and was recently named one of the Distinguished Alumni of the Pennsylvania State University. 
Professor Wong has published widely with nearly 1,000 technical papers. He has yielded fruitful research results and holds over 50 US patents.
Foreign CAE academicians are elected by all current academicians of CAE.  They must be internationally recognized scholars or experts with extraordinary technical knowledge and accomplishments in the art and science of engineering.  They have also made significant contributions in promoting the development and international collaboration of engineering in China.  There are currently 45 foreign CAE academicians, inclusive of the six newly elected members. 
CUHK has, among its faculty members, a total of three CAE members, one CAE member of foreign nationalities (Prof. Wong Ching-ping), six Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) members, four CAS members of foreign nationalities and eight Academia Sinica members.