[date]1 December 2013[/date]
[title]CUHK to host Colloquium on ‘The Arts and Humanities in Civic Society’
Open to the Public[/title]
Hong Kong is often called a ‘pragmatic’ or ‘practical’ society. Do Hong Kong people rest on the laurels of overall financial success? What other factors are affecting civic well-being in our city? How can cultural institutions add value to our lives as citizens? 
The Research Centre for Human Values and the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will host the ‘Colloquium on the Arts and Humanities in Civic Society’ on 8 December (Sunday) to address the above issues. Sponsored by the Hong Kong Academy of Humanities, the event is one of the celebratory activities for CUHK's Golden Jubilee. Members of the public are welcome to join and make online registration. 
There are two sessions in the colloquium – the morning session is on Civic Well-being, in which Professor Sir John Bell (Regius Professor of Medicine at the University of Oxford and Mok Hing Yiu Visiting Professor at CUHK) and Dr. Christine Loh (Under-Secretary of the Environment of the HKSAR Government and Founder &amp; Former CEO of Civic Exchange) will be speaking on the sources of well-being in cities. The afternoon session is on Cultural Capital, in which Professor Sir Drummond Bone (Master of Balliol College at the University of Oxford and the former Vice-Chancellor of Liverpool University) and Mr. Michael Lynch (CEO of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority) will be speaking on how cultural institutions add value to lives of citizens. 
Details of the colloquium are as followsDate:        8 December 2013 (Sunday) Time:        9:15am - 5:00pm Venue:      Cho Yiu Hall, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, ShatinLanguage: EnglishTransport: Shuttle bus services will also be arranged between                 the University Station and Cho Yiu Hall at 8.45am and                 12.30pm.Online registration:https://docs.google.com/forms/d/14mv5FeoE9THgc64QH9r7da1krqpOVSJOzs9H9Biiu7Y/viewformEnquiries: Tel: 3943 7006/ Email: rchv@cuhk.edu.hk  
Programme:

Time
Speakers
Title

9.30–10.45am
Professor Sir John Bell, FRS
 
Can science thrive without a strong civil society?

11.00–12.15pm
Dr. Christine Loh, JP, OBE
The Art and Science of Civic Inclusion and Engagement

12.15–12.30pm
Concluding session: panel discussion and wind-up

2.00–3.15pm
Professor Sir Drummond Bone, FRSE, FRSA
UK Universities: the market model and other values

3.30–4.45pm
Mr. Michael Lynch
Culture and the City: The Case of West Kowloon

4.45–5.00pm
Concluding session: panel discussion and wind-up

 