[date]20 March 2014[/date]
[title]Inauguration of CASS-CUHK Chinese Archaeology Joint Research Base[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) have jointly established 'The CASS-CUHK Chinese Archaeology Joint Research Base', the territory's first research unit dedicated to combining archaeological expertise from mainland China and Hong Kong as a new platform of collaboration.  The newly established research base will study early civilizations in China through a global perspective, conduct in-depth investigations of ancient cultures in Hong Kong and Macau, explore new research horizons for the academic communities in Chinese archaeology and train new professionals in Hong Kong archaeology. The inauguration ceremony was officiated by Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Prof. Zhang Jiang, Vice President of CASS; Prof. Li Lu, Director General of Education, Science and Technology Department, Liaison Office of The Central People's Government in SAR; and Ms. Florence Hui, Under Secretary for Home Affairs, HKSAR. 
'The establishment of the Joint Research Base has great cultural and historical significance. Hong Kong currently has a few archaeologists and no tertiary education programmes in archaeology, despite the known existence of over a hundred ancient cultural sites. The joint research base will connect different disciplines across CUHK, including the Centre for Chinese Archaeology and Arts (CCAA), the Institute of Chinese Studies (ICS), as well as Departments of History, Anthropology, Fine Arts and Physics, in pushing the global archaeological frontier in collaboration with Institute of Archaeology (IA) of CASS for the development of Chinese archaeology.' Prof. Joseph Sung said at the inauguration ceremony. 
For over two decades, IA and CCAA have been collaborating in a variety of joint projects, including field excavations in Hong Kong and several significant archaeological sites in mainland China, organizing international conferences, publishing archaeological monographs and the production of museum exhibitions for the 'Forget Me Not – The Historical Roots of Hong Kong' series at CUHK. Their collaborations have had a significant impact on studies of the ancestry of Austronesian populations in Southeast Asia, as well as the origins of early jade cultures in East Asia. 
Cultural development is always a common concern to the academic world and the government in Hong Kong. CCAA has been receiving support from the Home Affairs Bureau (HAB), HKSAR over the past years. The growth of the research base will also rely on the continuous collaborative efforts with HAB towards the goal of fostering archaeological development and expanding the reach of Chinese culture in Hong Kong. 
Lecture Series by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) Scholars 
Apart from the inauguration ceremony of the Joint Research Base, CUHK also staged the 3rd CASS Scholars Visit Programme. Under this programme, scholars of CASS are invited to visit CUHK each year and deliver public lectures to forge academic exchange in the humanities and social science. The programme presents a valuable opportunity to build one more bridge between CUHK and CASS in terms of high-level research exchanges, paving the way for further collaboration. 
The delegation of CASS comprised Prof. Zhang Jiang, Vice President of CASS; Prof. Zhu Ling, Division Member of CASS; Prof. Liu Dan Qing, Director of Institute of Linguistics, CASS; and Prof. Bu Wei, Institute of Journalism and Communication, CASS. The scholars paid visits to the School of Journalism and Communication, Faculty of Arts, Department of Chinese Language and Literature, Department of Economics, Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages, CCAA, and ICS, for academic exchange in relevant research areas. 
During the visit, the scholars delivered 4 public lectures in the Lecture Series by CASS Scholars. They shared their expertise and views at the cutting edge of their chosen fields in economics, linguistics, journalism and literary criticism.