[date]16 March 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK I‧CARE Film Festival Brings Inspiring Films and Speakers to Campus[/title]
The I‧CARE Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will launch the ‘I‧CARE Film Festival’ this spring.  From 18 March to 8 April, a total of 26 selected films of different countries and genres, be it classic or contemporary, will be screened around the campus during the three-week event.  Distinguished guests including film directors and producers will be invited to join the post-screening seminars and share their passion for and inspiration from films.  Other highlights of the event include outdoor screening in New Asia College and Wu Yee Sun College, 35mm film screening in the Sir Run Run Shaw Hall, and overnight screening. 
The curators of the ‘I‧CARE Film Festival’ are Fung Ka-ming, film critic and a 1995 graduate of BA in Fine Arts at CUHK; Eric Tsang, a postgraduate student of MA in Communications and former chairman of CUHK Film Society; Prof. Chow Po-chung, Associate Professor, Department of Government and Public Administration at CUHK; and Prof. Donna Chu, Associate Professor, School of Journalism and Communication.  Believing in the power of films to inspire the mind and nourish the heart, they wish to promote the appreciation of films on campus and bring a wide variety of films from around the world to members of CUHK. 
Event details can be found in the website and facebook page of I‧CARE Programme:
https://www4.cuhk.edu.hk/icare/index.php/en/projects/university-lecture-on-civility/70-icare-film-festival-2014
www.facebook.com/cuhkcivility
About ICARE Programme and University Lecture on Civility
With the slogan 'Aspiration through reflection; Renewal through civility', the ICARE Programme aims to promote students' holistic development through social and civic engagements in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas countries, and to raise their humanistic and civic awareness.
University Lecture on Civility is an annual programme of ICARE with an objective to bring in scholars, artists and public figures in the region to CUHK to share their views on civility and value system to our staff and students, as well as other interested parties in the public.
The University is deeply grateful to the patrons and sponsors of the ICARE Programme: Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation; Glorious Sun Group; Dr. Eleanor Wong, TYW Holdings Corporation; A couple of 1976 Chung Chi graduates; Mr. Chan Chee-hoi, Warren; Mr. Chan Lik-shuen, David via Goldman Sachs Gives; Dr. Chan Sui-kau; Causeway Corner Limited; Mrs. Cheung Ly Xu-nu, Susan; Chui Fook-chuen Education &amp; Charity Fund; Fordpointer Shipping Co., Ltd.; Give Back To Community Program; Hang Seng Bank; Hong Kong Shun Lung Yan Chak Foundation Limited; Mr. Law Kwok-hung; Lee Hysan Foundation; Mr. Leung Ying-wai, Charles; James Mok, family and friends (Sale proceeds from the book "The Challenge"); Olympus Hong Kong and China Limited; Ivy and KL Wong; Ms. Manda Young, Pleasure In Art Association Limited (CUHK alumnus).
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=166&amp;s=
 