[date]19 December 2013[/date]
[title]The Croucher Foundation Advanced Study Institute on Printed Electronics held at CUHK
Dedicated to Professor Sir Charles Kao on the Occasion of his 80th Birthday[/title]
The Croucher Foundation Advanced Study Institute (ASI) on Printed Electronics was recently held at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).  The high-level activity brought around 200 academic and industrial researchers in related fields from different parts of the world including mainland China, Japan and the US, to present their latest accomplishments, discuss and share their experiences, and foresee future directions for printed electronics.  The conference was dedicated to Professor Charles K. Kao, former Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, who celebrates his 80th birthday in 2013, in  honour of his revolutionary contributions towards university education and the development of internet communications. 
The research of printed electronics is highly multidisciplinary, combining expertise from physics, chemistry, biology, material science, and electronic engineering, etc.  The applications of printed electronics include manufacturing of display and lighting devices, solar cells, biomedical instruments, etc.  Through the seminars and tutorials given by eminent scientists and interactive discussions in The ASI on Printed Electronics, the faculties and students in Hong Kong and near-by regions have gained a deeper understanding of the science and technology of printed electronics, and was inspired to work together to propel greater advances in the field.
‘In view of the imminence of global warming, green manufacturing becomes all the more important.  One of the big advantages of printed electronics is a smaller ecological footprint, reducing consumption of raw materials, energy and water,’ said Professor C. P. Wong, Dean of Engineering, CUHK.
CUHK Provost Professor Benjamin W. Wah said, ‘We are delighted to dedicate the Croucher Advanced Study Institute on Printed Electronics 2013 to Professor Kao on his 80th birthday, to pay tribute to his significant contributions to CUHK and his groundbreaking innovation in optical fiber communication.’
Mrs. Gwen Kao expressed her gratitude to CUHK for its support and love to Professor Kao.  She wished the conference on Printed Electronics could facilitate ideas exchange in science and research.  Professor and Mrs. Kao joined the tea gathering afterwards and had an enjoyable afternoon meeting their old friends and colleagues on campus.
Professor Kao founded the Department of Electronic Engineering in 1970, and served as the founding Chairman of the department.  In 1987, he became the third Vice-Chancellor of CUHK.  With his insightful vision, Professor Kao proposed to unite the five individual engineering departments into one Faculty, to combine their strengths and focus on education and research in computer science, information technology and electronic engineering.  The directions he laid down for the Faculty have gone well with Hong Kong's overall development. Professor Kao also set up the Faculty of Education and a number of research institutes, which also laid a sound foundation for CUHK to develop into a world-class comprehensive, research-led university.  Professor Kao is recognized worldwide as the ‘Father of Fiber Optics’ and was awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics for his accomplishment in the development of fiber optic technologies that changed the world.
The video and photos of the ceremony can be downloaded at: http://sslab.ee.cuhk.edu.hk/ASI_Printed-Electronics/.