[date]2 April 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold the
‘Municipal Solid Waste Charging’ Forum
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold a forum entitled ‘Municipal Solid Waste Charging’ at ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay on Friday, 24 April.  The forum, under the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’, will gather engineering, environmental and academic experts to share their insights on municipal solid waste charging.
Ir Kenny WONG, Principal Consultant of the Hong Kong Productivity Council and Vice Chairman of the Hong Kong Waste Management Association, will deliver a keynote speech at the forum on how the implementation of municipal solid waste charging may help manage waste in Hong Kong.  Ir Wong was formerly Chairman of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers (HKIE) Environmental Division and he is an expert specializing in environmental issues such as waste and food waste management.  Apart from Ir Wong’s speech, Mr Angus HO, Executive Director of Greeners Action, and Dr Eric TSANG, Associate Professor at the Department of Science and Environmental Studies of the Hong Kong Institute of Education, will also share their views on the topic and interact with the participants.
The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.  Limited seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis.  Interested parties can register at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$54 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.