[date]29 May 2014[/date]
[title]Taiwanese Director Chai Min Leong to Share His Insights on 'It's Got to Be Slow' in International Humanities Meeting Held at CUHK[/title]
The Research Institute of the Humanities (RIH) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will host the 2014 Consortium of Humanities Institutes and Centers (CHCI) Annual Meeting from 5 to 8 June, with the theme 'Performative Humanities'.  It is the first time that CHCI Annual Meeting has been held in Asia.  Over 200 CHCI members around the world and some influential Asian scholars will participate in the key academic panels and workshops, including 'Narcotics and Empire: Opium War in Literature, History, and Film' and 'Digital Archive, Digital Humanities, and Performance' sponsored by Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation of Taiwan, demonstrating the digitization of Dunhuang heritage. 
Director Chai Min Leong (a.k.a. Tsai Ming-liang), one of the most prominent film directors in Taiwan will give a public lecture entitled 'It's Got to Be Slow' on Friday, 6 June.  Director Chai will share his notion of creation through a screening of three short films No Form, Walker and Walking on Water, as well as some clips from his latest award-winning feature Stray Dogs.  The lecture will be conducted in Putonghua.  Members of the public are welcome.  Interested parties please register at: http://cloud.itsc.cuhk.edu.hk/surveyasp/Survey.aspx?sid=5035. 
Born in Malaysia in 1957, Director Chai Min Leong made his mark as a distinguished film director during the new cinema movement in Taiwan. He advanced into the stage of international film by his iconic production Vive L'amour winning the Golden Lion Award at the Venice Film Festival in 1994. In 2009, he made an inspiring attempt in bridging film and art galleries by the first dramatization of Louvre Museum's collection 'Le Louvre s'offre aux cinéastes', entitled Face. Since 2012, he has produced a series of short films under the theme of 'Slow'.  His latest feature Stray Dogs has just won the Grand Jury Prize at the 70th Venice Film Festival in 2013. 
About the Research Institute of the Humanities (RIH), CUHK 
Established in 1991, the Research Institute for the Humanities aims to encourage and coordinate collective, especially inter-disciplinary, research in the humanities at CUHK; to identify areas suited to long-term strategic research; and to organize regional and international conferences on the humanities.  There are nine research centres under the institute, which provides clerical and logistic support, serves as an information clearing house, and organizes events such as workshops and lectures. 
About the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes (CHCI) 
The CHCI is an international academic organization that promotes interdisciplinary activities in humanities and social sciences. Consisting of 154 member institutes, the network of CHCI spreads over North America, Europe, Asia, and the Pacific Rim. Governed by their International Advisory Board, the CHCI organizes several Board Meetings every year for the Board Members as well as a major Annual Meeting for its entire membership to circulate news and to foster international collaborations.