[date]24 April 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Third AS Academicians Visit Programme cum Lecture Series
Three Distinguished Mathematics and Physical Sciences Scholars to Share Latest Research
Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the third Academia Sinica (AS) Academicians Visit Programme from 28 April to 1 May 2014.  Three distinguished academicians from the Division of Mathematics and Physical Sciences including Prof. Liu Chao-Han, Distinguished Visiting Scholar, AS; Prof. Liu Chung-Laung, William Mong Honorary Chair Professor, Taiwan Tsing Hua University; and Prof. Norden E. Huang, K.T. Lee Chair Professor and Director of Center for Adaptive Data Analysis, Taiwan Central University, will visit CUHK for academic exchange.  They will deliver public lectures and meet with CUHK representatives to discuss collaboration opportunities in the fields of geography, earth science and engineering. 
The scholars will visit the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, the Department of Geography and Resource Management, the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability, the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, as well as relevant research units at CUHK. On 29 April, they will give three public lectures on CUHK campus to share experience and expertise in their respective fields of research. The lecture will be conducted in English. Members of the public are welcome. For more information and registration, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2014/ or call 3943-8728. 
Prof. Liu Chao-Han obtained his doctoral degree in electrical engineering from Brown University.  He had served as President of Taiwan Central University and Vice President of AS, and also taught at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  He is a radio scientist with expertise in solar terrestrial physics and global change research. He pioneered the versatile and inexpensive technology known as Computerized Ionospheric Tomography for space weather research.  He played a leadership role in the space programme and global change research in Taiwan.  Prof. Liu Chao-Han will share the latest research on global climate monitoring with satellites at his public lecture entitled 'A Thermometer in the Sky'. 
Prof. Liu Chung-Laung is William Mong Honorary Chair Professor of Computer Science and former President of Taiwan Tsing Hua University.  He has taught at MIT, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and Taiwan Tsing Hua University for over forty years. His research areas include computer-aided design of VLSI circuits, computer-aided instruction, real-time systems, combinatorial optimization, and discrete mathematics. Prof. Liu Chung-Laung will deliver a lecture entitled 'The Art of Bridge Building'. He will start with discussion on the famous problem of the Seven Bridges of Königsberg and then go on to present application results. 
Prof. Norden E. Huang is K.T. Lee Chair Professor and founding director of the Research Center for Adaptive Data Analysis at Taiwan Central University.  Before that, he had been working for NASA for over thirty years.  The Hilbert-Huang Transform (HHT) developed by Professor Huang, which is considered one of the most important discoveries in the field of applied mathematics in NASA history, is able to process nonstationary and nonlinear time series.  For his work on HHT, he received 12 patents in the US and a number of international awards.  During his lecture on 'What is Frequency?', Professor Huang will give a rigorous and logic definition of frequency, and introduce a new data analysis method.