[date]5 June 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Gender Research Centre to Hold Workshop on 'Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Status: Different Views and Understandings'[/title]
The Gender Research Centre of Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the 2014 Annual Gender Roles Workshop entitled 'Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Status: Different Views and Understandings' next Saturday (14 June) to discuss issues affecting sexual minorities.  Members of the public are welcome.  Admission is free.  Interested parties please register at: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkiaps/grc/workshop/2014.html. 
There has been some heated debate lately on issues affecting sexual minorities - Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex, locally and internationally - covering aspects of religion, morality, law, human rights, medical science, culture, employment, and other subjects. To enhance public knowledge on the issues, the Gender Research Centre will invite guest speakers from different organisations to share views on LGBTI issues in the workshop. 
The first part of the workshop includes keynote speeches by Dr. York Chow Yat-ngok, Chairperson of Equal Opportunities Commission; Prof. Suen Yiu-tung, Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, CUHK; Ms. Liu Pui-shan, Acting Supervisor of Tung Wah Group of Hospitals CEASE Crisis Centre; and Mr. Ip Shun-tak, Principal of Church of Christ in China Mong Man Wai College.  A panel discussion will follow, attended by Ms. Joanne Leung, Chairperson of Transgender Resource Centre; Mr. Chau Chun-yam, Director of Project Touch, the Boys' and Girls' Clubs Association of Hong Kong; Mr. Paul Choi, Executive Director at Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.; Mr. Poon Yu-hin, Research Assistant, Faculty of Education, CUHK; Ms. Small Luk, an activist for the concerns of intersex status. Details of the workshop are as follows： 

Date:
Saturday, 14 June 2014

Time:
9:00am – 10:45am   (Part 1: keynote speeches)11:00am – 12:30pm   (Part 2: panel discussion)

Venue:
LT4, Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College, CUHK

Language:
Cantonese

Register:
http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkiaps/grc/workshop/2014.html

Remark:
Free childcare service is available.  Please make reservation in advance.

Enquiries:
Barbara Yang, Gender Research Centre, CUHK (Tel: 3943 8775; Email: grcentre@cuhk.edu.hk）

The Gender Research Centre, which was founded as the Gender Research Programme in 1985, is the first research unit on gender and women's issues in Hong Kong.  It aims to promote knowledge in gender research and women's status.
 