[date]11 June 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Department of Cultural and Religious Studies Celebrates 10th Anniversary
Renowned Speakers to Review Development of Cultural Studies[/title]
In celebration of the 10th anniversary of Department of Cultural and Religious Studies at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the 'Cultural Studies at CUHK, 10 Years in Retrospect: The Book Launch of Culture is Ordinary and Sensing/Seeing Everyday Life' will be held on 13 June at the University Bookstore.  The authors Mr. Leon Chu, Miss Leung Lai-yan, Mr. Tang Ching-kin and Dr. Tang Kin-ling will share how they continue the pursuit of cultural studies after graduation.  Scholars of cultural studies including Prof. Leo Lee Ou-fan, Dr. Cho Man-kit, Prof. Leung Mei-ping and Prof. Wong Wai-ching will review the development of cultural studies at CUHK and explore its future direction.  Members of the public are welcome.  No registration required. 
The book Culture is Ordinary – Cultural Studies, Practice and Life is a collection of short essays written by graduates of the Programme of Cultural Studies, who share their experience of transition from studying in the academia to practicing in the workplace.  The book Sensing/Seeing Everyday Life: the Intercultural Studies Reader is a collection of excerpts from master and doctoral theses which explore the cultural issues of contemporary Chinese and Hong Kong societies. 
Guests of the Book Launch 
Mr. Leon Chu is the first year graduate of undergraduate programme of the Department of Modern Languages and Culture, CUHK. He is currently a freelance musician and writer. He is one of the authors of the book Culture is Ordinary. 
Miss Leung Lai-yan works at a non-government organization on community building in Tin Shui Wai. She is one of the authors of the book Culture is Ordinary. 
Mr. Tang Ching-kin is a PhD candidate in Cultural Studies of CUHK . He is also a theatre critic. He is one of the authors of the books Culture is Ordinary and Sensing/Seeing Everyday Life. 
Dr. Tang Kin-ling is a PhD graduate in Cultural Studies of CUHK . She is a part time instructor in CUHK and Lingnan University. She is one of the authors of the book Sensing/Seeing Everyday Life. 
Prof. Leo Lee Ou-fan is Sin Wai Kin Professor of Chinese Culture at CUHK. 
Dr. Cho Man-kit is a PhD graduate in Gender Studies of CUHK. He is an active member of LGBT advocacy group 'Nu Tong Xue She'. 
Prof. Leung Mei-ping is Assistant Professor of Academy of Visual Arts at Hong Kong Baptist University. She is also a famous multimedia artist. 
Prof. Wong Wai-ching is Associate Professor of the Department of Cultural and Religious Studies at CUHK. 
For more information of the event, please visit: www.crs.cuhk.edu.hk/crs10th/.  For enquiries, please call Miss Cheung at 3943-1255.