[date]8 June 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph Sung Receives Fulbright Hong Kong Distinguished Scholar Award[/title]
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President, and Mok Hing Yiu Professor of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), has been awarded the 2014 Fulbright Hong Kong Distinguished Scholar Award to make a lecture tour of major U.S. universities.  Funded by the Hong Kong Government's Information Services Department, the prestigious award is bestowed on an eminent scholar every year to foster academic exchange between Hong Kong and the U.S.  Past awardees include Prof. Charles K. Kao, former Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Prof. Liu Pak-wai, Emeritus Professor of Economics, CUHK; and Prof. Dennis Lo Yuk-ming, Li Ka Shing Professor of Medicine, CUHK.  The award was presented to Professor Sung by Mr. Clifford A. Hart, Consul General of the United States of America to Hong Kong and Macau. 
Professor Sung said, 'I'm deeply honoured to be the Hong Kong Fulbright Distinguished Scholar for 2014, and I'm looking forward to meeting our counterparts in the U.S. to share my research experience.  I believe it will help forge closer ties and enhance mutual understanding between the U.S. and Hong Kong.' 
Professor Sung will give a lecture series on 'Plague, SARS and Influenza: What have we learned?' at a number of universities on the west coast of the U.S.  The Hong Kong Economic and Trade Offices in the U.S. will also organize side programmes for Professor Sung to meet with, among others, think tanks and opinion-formers. 
About the Fulbright Program 
The Fulbright Program is the flagship international education exchange program run by the U.S. Government.  It is designed to promote mutual understanding between the people of the U.S. and the people of other countries.  It operates in more than 155 countries worldwide and has provided approximately 310,000 participants with the opportunity to study, teach, or conduct research in each other's countries and exchange ideas.  The Hong Kong SAR Government has sponsored Distinguished Fulbright Scholars from Hong Kong since 1996.