[date]23 April 2014[/date]
[title]Naming Ceremony of Lau Chor Tak Lecture Theatre at CUHK Held Today[/title]
In appreciation of the generous donations made by Mr. Lau Chor Tak, Hong Kong entrepreneur and philanthropist, and Chairman of the Lau Chor Tak Foundation Limited, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) named the Lecture Theatre 1 of the Yasumoto International Academic Park as 'Lau Chor Tak Lecture Theatre'.  Officiated by Mr. Lau Chor Tak and Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, the naming ceremony was held today (23 April) in the presence of Mr. Lau's family members, Prof. Terence Chong, Executive Director of Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF), Prof. Lawrence Lau, Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics, Prof. Liu Pak Wai, Research Professor of IGEF, and Prof. Joseph Yam, distinguished research fellow of IGEF. 
Last year, Mr. Lau Chor Tak made generous donations to establish the 'Lau Chor Tak Distinguished Lecture on Global Economics and Finance' at IGEF of CUHK.  The distinguished lecture series aims at further promoting scholarly exchange on global economics and finance.  Prominent scholars and experts will be invited to deliver lectures on the latest developments in the global and Chinese economies or related topics of public interest.  The first lecture, entitled 'The New Prospects of China', was held in last December and delivered by Prof. Liu Mingkang, former chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission and BCT Distinguished Research Fellow of IGEF.  Recently, Mr. and Mrs. Lau have donated to the University another generous gift-in-kind—a commercial property and a parking space located in Kwun Tong—of which the proceeds will be used to support the development of IGEF. 
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung expressed his deepest appreciation to Mr. and Mrs. Lau for their continued support.  He said, 'We are so gratified to have Mr. and Mrs. Lau's full confidence in our ability to bring new ways of thinking, to make policy recommendations and to train international talents for the modernization of China's monetary and financial systems.  We will continue to develop the Institute of Global Economics and Finance into an intellectual powerhouse as well as a global hub for senior executive training.' 
Mr. Lau has supported educational endeavours in Hong Kong and mainland China for over half a century.  He was born in Chaoyang, Guangdong and came to Hong Kong at the age of 15 in 1940 as an apprentice in an import and export company.  Being a perseverant, hardworking and reliable employee, he was highly regarded by his employer and was promoted to a key management position within a year.  He later started up his own business in cotton yarn trading and real estate.  He is a successful entrepreneur who is highly acclaimed by the industries with his integrity.  He sets an exemplary model for youngsters with his diligence, perseverance, and commitment to society. 
Lau Chor Tak Lecture Theatre is located on the ground floor of the Yasumoto International Academic Park adjacent to the Northern exit of the University MTR station.  It is the largest lecture theatre on campus with a floor area of 759 m2 with a seating capacity of 582, comprehensive audio-visual facilities and WiFi network connectivity for teaching and learning.  In close proximity were a spacious foyer, exhibition areas, a café and a bookshop, making the Lecture Theatre an ideal venue for organizing seminars or lectures.