[date]30 September 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Hosts First White Coat Ceremony for Chinese Medicine Freshmen[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) hosted the inaugural White Coat Ceremony for its Chinese Medicine freshmen to mark their entry into the medical profession and their taking on the important responsibilities of saving lives with high moral and ethical standards.
The ceremony was officiated by Dr Ko Wing Man, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR Government; Dr Lam Man Kin, Assistant Director for the Department of Health (Traditional Chinese Medicine), HKSAR Government; Dr Ho Wing Tim, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Pok Oi Hospital; Prof Francis KL Chan, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK; Prof Leung Wing Nang, Director of the School of Chinese Medicine, CUHK; and Mr Ken Sin Chun Ho, President of the Chinese Medicine Alumni Association, CUHK. Sixty-one freshmen were presented with a white coat and a wrist-cushion, and they pledged to confirm their untiring pursuit of knowledge, observance of the code of ethics and professional conduct, and commitment to the community. 
In his opening remarks, Dr Ko Wing Man, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR Government, congratulated the freshmen for having the valuable opportunity to commence their medical journey at the White Coat Ceremony. He remarked that medical students are different from other university students as they are required not only to develop independent and critical thinking, but also to shoulder the important responsibilities of a doctor to take care of their patients. Dr Ko encouraged students to always act in the best interest of their patients, and to uphold highest professionalism, accountability, responsibility and integrity. 
Before the ceremony, Prof Francis KL Chan, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, spoke about the long history and culture of Chinese medicine to remind students that professional competence and morality are equally important for a medical practitioner.  “From the moment you made the oath today, you have carried on a holy mission. You have vowed that you will try your very best to serve and contribute to society with utmost commitment and integrity.” 
Prof Leung Wing Nang Albert, Director of the School of Chinese Medicine, quoted the famous saying that goes “The way of great learning consists in manifesting of one’s bright virtue” and encouraged students to persistently maintain professional attitudes and behaviors. “I would like to thank all guests, teachers and students for joining the ceremony today. As always, all the teachers and staff at the School will offer guidance and support to our students along their journey of medical training.” 
The School of Chinese Medicine of CUHK, founded in 1998, has been committed to nurturing new generations of Chinese medicine practitioners and contributing to the sustainable development of the profession to cater to the rising demand of society. Since its inception, over 500 professional practitioners have been nurtured to serve the public.  