[date]5 October 2014[/date]
[title]Vice-Chancellor's words for all students[/title]
Dear students, and citizens of Hong Kong who support our students,
During the past two weeks, your strong desire for democracy and freedom was heard by everyone in Hong Kong, in our nation and all over the world.  Your sacrifice and your great love for Hong Kong, are there for all of us to see.  We are all moved.
Your movement has now attained a certain degree of success, whereby you have created a greater awareness and a better understanding in the community of the pursuit for democracy.  The Government has also agreed to commence dialogue on the subject of political reform.  The reality today is that, if occupation activities persist, social cleavage and internal wastage will only continue to afflict the community of Hong Kong, and any fruit you might have reaped through your actions will be discounted to a very large degree.  What should occupy our minds now are the broader issues of the interest of the community as a whole, the sustainable manners to adopt in order to achieve democracy, and the personal safety of tens of thousands of students and our citizens.
Dear students, “to seek the Will of the Heaven and Earth, and to determine the Fate of the People” is what you have achieved.  “To perpetuate the Great Learning of the Past Sages, and to usher in  Universal Peace” remain tasks awaiting your efforts.  As a teacher and the Vice-Chancellor, I speak with the heart and mind of a father to implore you not to risk sacrifice that might not amount to anything, and one step backward certainly does not mean defeat or retreat.
Let us all deploy a higher wisdom and greater courage, and let us give ourselves and our comrades a moment of rest.  Please give the proposed dialogue the opportunity it deserves.  Please withdraw from the occupied zones immediately to allow the roads to be opened again!  I also call upon the Government of the SAR to make the greatest possible allowance for these young people, adults and seniors who hold Hong Kong so dear to their hearts.
Joseph J Y Sung