[date]8 May 2014[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Thirteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold its Thirteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony on Monday, 12 May on campus. Seven distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK will be conferred honorary fellowships in recognition of their remarkable contributions to the University and the community.
Mr. CHAN Chun-wing, Terence 
Mr. Chan Chun-wing, Terence is the former Bursar of CUHK and served the University for 23 years. Mr. Chan assumed the position of Bursar in 1996 and introduced a new management philosophy to the Bursary. He changed the Chinese name for the Bursary, which reflects more appropriately the nature of its work and he changed the Office from an accounting office to a strategic financial hub of the University. He helped the Bursary to overcome several unprecedented challenges including reduction in government funding and he played an important part in building up a healthy financial reserve for the University. Mr. Chan also made significant contributions to the setting up and planning of new Colleges, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen and the private teaching hospital projects. Mr. Chan is also keen to contribute to the community. He has served as a founding member of the Executive Committee of The Hong Kong Retirement Schemes Association and as Treasurer and a member of the Executive Board of the Hong Kong Road Safety Association Limited. He is currently the Chairman of Finance Committee of the Scout Association of Hong Kong, and the Treasurer of HKU Graduate Association Education Foundation.
Mr. CHU En-yue, David
Mr. Chu En-yue, a prominent industrialist and philanthropist, is the founder and Manager Director of Regatex Manufacturers, Guangzhou Likang Garment Co. Ltd. and Suzhou Liqiang Garment Co. Ltd. Dedicated to the cause of education and charity, Mr. Chu has provided financial aid for over 35,000 students from Hong Kong and the Mainland to pursue education through the C.W. Chu Foundation founded by his late father Dr. Chu Ching-wen. Later he himself founded The Solar Trust to continue his philanthropy. Mr. Chu has given ardent support to CUHK and has made generous donations to support the development of the C.W. Chu College. He has served as a member of the Planning Committee for the C.W. Chu College and is currently Chairman of the College's Committee of Overseers. Mr. Chu has also served as a member of Jiangsu Provincial Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and as a member of the Textile and Clothing Training Board of the Vocational Training Council.
Dr. KOO Ti-hua
Dr. Koo Ti-hua is an eminent entrepreneur, who founded the multinational business enterprise Novelact Limited in 1976. The corporation, with over 20 subsidiaries, extended its business to several fields, including selling Chinese agricultural products, introducing technology products and shipping. As the first foreign disciple of Kunqu magnate Mr. Yu Zhenfei, Dr. Koo is also a great Kunqu performer and the first recipient of the Golden Orchid Award by the China Opera Association. For the past 20 years, he has been devoted to promoting Kunqu. He published numerous books and produced DVDs as well as established the Koo Ti Hua Foundation for the Promotion of Kunqu Opera. He supported the Chinese Music Archive of the Department of Music of CUHK to publish a book about traditional Chinese music and he organized, sponsored and performed in various events promoting Chinese opera. Over the years, Dr. Koo has made tremendous donations to support education and cultural development in the Mainland. He has also donated a building as a community health centre in San Franciso, U.S.A.
Mr LAM Wing-tak, Bill
Mr. Lam Wing-tak, Bill, a distinguished entrepreneur and an alumnus of CUHK New Asia College, is currently the Chief Executive Director and Executive Director of Pacific Textiles Holdings Limited as well as a director of various subsidiaries of the Group. He has nearly 40 years of experience in the industry. Graduating with a degree of Bachelor of Business Administration from CUHK in 1975, Mr. Lam has been a staunch supporter of his alma mater and a member of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College since 2008. In addition to supporting numerous scholarships, exchange and internship programmes, he has made magnanimous donations of key development projects to New Asia College, including the construction of the New Asia History Gallery, the online college history archives and the fifth student hostel. Mr. Lam is also an active alumnus. He was a member of CUHK 50th Anniversary Celebration Committee on Alumni Activities and helped organize several alumni celebratory events.
Dr. LEUNG Fung-yee, Anita
Dr. Leung Fung-yee Anita, a distinguished entrepreneur and alumna of CUHK Chung Chi College, is the founder of Qin Jia Yuan Media Services Company Limited. She has over 30 years of experience in the media industry, financial industry, TV programme production, public relations, advertising and marketing. Dr. Leung is also a renowned and prolific novelist with over 100 publications, several of which were adopted as TV dramas and movies. Over the years, Dr. Leung has been a staunch supporter of her alma mater. She has served as a member of the Board of Trustees of Chung Chi College, Chairman of the Committee of Overseers of Lee Woo Sing College and a member of the CUHK 50th Anniversary Celebration Organizing Committee. She has made generous donations in support of the activities of the University and the Colleges and to the establishment of numerous scholarships. Committed to serving the community, Dr. Leung is currently a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Standing Committee Member of The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, Honorary Vice President of Hong Kong Federation of Women (HKFW) and Standing Committee Member of HKFW Women Entrepreneurs Committee.
Dr. WANG Chi
Dr. Wang Chi, a distinguished librarian and former University Librarian of CUHK, is the Co-Founder and President of the U.S.-China Policy Foundation. Dr. Wang has been working at the Library of Congress in the United States for nearly 40 years. During his time as the Chinese Section Chief, the Chinese collection expanded from 300,000 to over one million volumes. Over the years, Dr. Wang has devoted significant efforts to promote greater dialogue and understanding between the United States and China. He helped the U.S. Department of State to establish a liaison office in Beijing and was invited by the Chinese government to China in negotiations to establish cultural exchange projects between the two countries. He is one of the founders of National Committee on United States-China Relations. Dr. Wang made tremendous contributions to the development of CUHK. He served as the University Librarian from 1970 to 1972 and from 1984 to 1986. He helped to build the Medical Library and the New Asia College Library. He also led the CUHK Library in building a new library system.
Dr. WONG Kwai-lam
Dr. Wong Kwai-lam, an eminent investment banker and alumnus of CUHK United College, is currently the Chairman of IncitAdv Consultants Limited. He has over 32 years of experience in the commercial and investment banking industry. He has held key positions in several leading investment banks including Standard Chartered Asia Limited, CS First Boston (Hong Kong) Limited and Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited. Graduating with a degree of Bachelor of Arts from CUHK in 1972, Dr. Wong has given ardent support to his alma mater. He is the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trustees of New Asia College and a member of the Taskforce on Private Teaching Hospital. He generously supported the establishment of exchange scholarships, sponsored an annual workshop at New Asia College to improve presentation skills of students and actively participated in various University and College activities to share his working and life experience with students. Dr. Wong is currently a member of the Hospital Governing Committee of The Prince of Wales Hospital, a Director of Opera Hong Kong Limited and independent non-executive directors of four companies listed in Hong Kong.
 