[date]28 September 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Unveils Sculpture ‘The Integration’ in Golden Jubilee Alumni Garden[/title]
In celebration of the Golden Jubilee of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the Golden Jubilee Alumni Garden was established in 2013 at Eastern Gate of CUHK to recognize the contributions made by our alumni over the past 50 years. A Sculpture, named ‘The Integration’, has been installed at the center of the Garden to symbolize the founding mission of CUHK: to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West. It was designed and crafted by the renowned contemporary sculptor Professor Wu Weishan, who is also an Honorary Fellow of CUHK. The production of the sculpture was sponsored by alumni Dr. Cheung Huen Cheong Thomas, Ms. Yan Hau Yee Lina, Dr. Chan Chi Sun, Mr. Leung Ying Wai and two 1976 Chung Chi College graduates.
The Unveiling Ceremony of the Sculpture was held recently at the Golden Jubilee Alumni Garden, officiated by Vice-Chancellor Professor Joseph Sung, Sculptor of ‘The Integration’ Professor Wu Weishan, and the alumni donors. Professor Joseph Sung expressed his gratitude towards Professor Wu Weishan and the alumni donors for their enthusiastic support.
‘The Integration’ is a 3-meter tall sculpture made of bronze and stainless steel, in the form of a youngster on one side and an old man on the other, symbolizing the inheritance of knowledge and spirit of humanity at CUHK. The Chinese calligraphy ‘融匯’ on the plaque placed in front of ‘The Integration’ was written by Professor Sung. A donors’ plaque has also been installed beside the sculpture as a token of appreciation of the alumni donors.
Prof. Wu Weishan is Director of the National Art Museum of China, President of the China Sculpture Academy and Director of the Institute of Arts of the Chinese National Academy of Arts. He has created over 500 sculptures of historical and cultural world figures such as Qi Baishi, Fei Xiaotong and Queen Beatrix Wilhelmina Armgard of the Netherlands. Professor Wu received many international awards for his outstanding artistic attainment, including the Pangolin Award of the Society of Portrait Sculptors in the U.K., the Recognition Award of the Third Exhibition of City Sculpture in China, and New China City Sculpture Construction Achievement Award. Apart from Professor Sir Charles Kao, Professor Wu has sculpted the likeness of many important Chinese University figures; for example, the Founding Vice-Chancellor Dr. Choh-ming Li, the Founding President of New Asia College Prof. Ch’ien Mu, Prof. Yang Chen-ning, Dr. the Honourable Simon Li Fook-sean and Professor the Honourable Jao Tsung-I. In 2010, CUHK conferred an Honorary Fellowship to Professor Wu in recognition of his contributions to the University and society.