[date]7 May 2014[/date]
[title]CU Chorus Presents Works of Phenomenal Taiwanese Composer Jan Tien-hao[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Chorus proudly presents 'The Music of Jan Tien-hao' on 8 June (Sunday) in the Concert Hall of Hong Kong Cultural Centre, featuring the works of Jan Tien-hao, the young and talented Taiwanese composer who is no stranger to the Chinese choral community.  All members of the public are cordially invited to experience a night of delicate choir music that gently tells the tales of life and dream.  Tickets are now available for sale at URBTIX outlets. 
Jan Tien-hao is currently Director of Perfect Match Theatre, Contributing composer for Taipei Philharmonic Chorus and Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Music of Shih Chien University. Mr. Jan's personal catalog includes compositions and arrangements for choruses, totaling over 100 published works since 1994.  Apart from composing for choral music, he is also an accomplished composer for symphonic music and is one of the most prominent composers for Chinese musicals in Taiwan. 
Jan's style is deeply influenced by pop and jazz music, with a signature blend of words and music surrounded by an aura of innocence and honesty, which is rare among contemporary Chinese choral repertoire.  CU Chorus has selected works of Jan's oldies' arrangements, including Love without End, Lover's Tears, The Moon Represents My Heart, Rose, Rose, I Love You. Original works Wind, Snow, Love, Star - Four Poems of Hsu Chih-mo, Love Tree, Three Poems of Chiang Hsun (Hong Kong Premiere), and commissioned work for CU Chorus, Dream Catcher (poem by Tai Wangshu, World Premiere), have also been chosen. 
CU Chorus Association Limited: The Music of Jan Tien-hao will be held on 8 June 2014 (Sun), 8PM in the Hong Kong Cultural Centre Concert Hall.  Tickets priced $180，＄120，$80 are now available.  Half-price tickets available for senior citizens aged 60 or above, people with disabilities and full-time students (Not applicable to $80 tickets).  Tickets are now available at URBTIX outlets. 
For programme enquiries,please call Ms Monica Chan at 9030 8570 or email cuchorus@cuchorus.org.hkURBTIX ticketing hotline: 2734 9009Online ticket booking: www.urbtix.hkFor more information, please visit our website: www.cuchorus.org.hk
About The Chinese University of Hong Kong ChorusMusic Director and Conductor: Leon Chu 
For nearly 40 years' pursuit of excellence, CU Chorus has become one of the best local university choirs in Hong Kong. With a global vision, CU Chorus has performed not only on the local stage, but also in various cities in southern China and southeast Asia. With its high quality performances and innovative programmes, CU Chorus is dedicated to promoting the art of choral music to the general public.