[date]10 July 2014[/date]
[title]Over 800 HKDSE Candidates Experience University Life at CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)  recently launched a series of activities, titled ‘One Day@CUHK’, for HKDSE candidates to get a feel for university life on campus.  The activities allowed Secondary Six students to gain a better understanding of the teaching and learning mode, self-directed experiential learning and college life at the university.  The whole programme received an overwhelming response with over 2,000 registrants and, in the end, a total of  857 participants from 173 secondary schools benefitted.
Prof. Wong Suk-Ying, Director of the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid said, ‘This is the first time that CUHK has organized such a comprehensive experiential activity for secondary school students.  We hope that it will help bridge the gap between secondary school life and university life.  We plan to make it a regular programme in future and extend it to Secondary Five students.’  The activities of One Day@CUHK were offered free of charge and designed for students to explore different facets of university life, including academic, cultural and artistic, as well as communal activities. 
Tips on Re-Prioritization of JUPAS Programme Choices 
Results of the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) will be released soon.  Prof. Wong Suk-ying advises that candidates should ponder over their long-term personal development when selecting their preferred institution and programme choice.  They should remember that university education is not just about vocational training. It is for the balanced, whole-person development of students.  The new four-year curriculum at CUHK provides ample opportunities and flexibility for undergraduates to explore disciplines or subjects beyond their major programmes.  In addition, students can participate in overseas exchange programmes to study at different partner institutions, join internship programmes at local or overseas enterprises, and take part in various community and social services.
Professor Wong suggests that students should place their interests as the first priority when choosing programmes, and take into consideration their abilities and potentials.  They should also carefully review the specific programme requirements, as well as the admission scores or grades in previous years, as different institutions and programmes may have different ways of computing the admission scores.  For CUHK, the admission score calculation is based on the average score of 4C+ 1X, i.e. the total score of the candidate in the 4 core subjects together with the best elective subject, divided by the number of subjects (i.e. 5).   For the 4 core subjects of Chinese Language, English Language, Mathematics (Compulsory Part) and Liberal Studies, the minimum requirements are level 3322.  The candidate’s performance in extra elective subjects will also be considered, and bonus points will be awarded for up to 2 extra elective subjects.
Professor Wong also reminds candidates to note the specific requirements of their preferred programme.  At CUHK, 4C+1X does not apply to some programmes.  For example, the Medicine programme has a minimum requirement of 4C+2X, with either Chemistry or Biology as the required subjects. The programme also strongly recommends that candidates take a third elective subject or Mathematics (Extended Part) Module I or II.  Faculty of Science and Faculty of Engineering have also adjusted their requirements this year.  In addition to public examination results, the University will take into consideration the candidates’ school results, extra-curricular achievements and other learning experiences, as well as interview performance where applicable.  Candidates can refer to the updated information on the admissions website of the University: www.cuhk.edu.hk/adm.