[date]30 May 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 'Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme' Workshop and Sharing Session 2014[/title]
The 'Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme' of CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) held a sharing workshop today (30 May) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).  The Scheme, launched by Gaia in 2012, is a timely initiative to reduce carbon emissions in Hong Kong through carbon auditing and environmental education at schools and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).  Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, and Ms Shirley Fisher, Charities Manager of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, presented certificates to the participating schools and NGOs for their successful completion of the Pilot Phase of the Scheme. 
The theme of the workshop was environmental education.  Ms Cherrie Lam, Curriculum Development Officer of Education Bureau, the HKSAR Government, spoke on the best ways to incorporate environmental education in school curricula.  Dr Matthew Pang, Programme Consultant of Gaia, demonstrated how the 'Go Green Community Education Kit' might facilitate students' engagement in environment protection.  The Education Kit is pitched at different learning levels for senior secondary, lower secondary and upper primary students, and links with the respective school curricula, including General Studies, Integrated Humanities, Civic Education and Liberal Studies.  The Education Kit is provided free for all schools in Hong Kong and can be downloaded from the website of Gaia (www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia/edukit_chi.html). 
Go Green Community school representatives including Ms Chan Shan Shan (Baptist (Sha Tin Wai) Lui Ming Choi Primary School), Mr Li Lok Tsang (Buddhist Wing Yan School) and Mr Sin Wai Yuen (Cheung Chau Government Secondary School) shared and exchanged experiences on making use of the available resources of the Scheme to promote environmental education at their schools and local communities. 
The Second Phase of the 'Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme' will commence in June 2014.  For details, please visit the website of Gaia (www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia). 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the 'Three Poles' (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.
 