[date]3 February 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the 8th CAS Academicians Visit Programme cum Lecture Series
Five Distinguished Scholars to Share Latest Research
Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the 8th Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Academicians Visit Programme from 10 to 13 February 2015. Five distinguished academicians including Prof. Zhou Chenghu, Prof. Tong Qingxi and Prof. Chen Yong from the Division of Earth Sciences, Prof. Lin Qun and Prof. Ma Zhiming from the Division of Mathematics and Physics will visit CUHK for academic exchange. 
The scholars will visit the Department of Geography and Resource Management, the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, and relevant departments in the Faculty of Science, and to discuss collaboration opportunities in the fields of statistics, mathematics, geography and resource management, space and earth information science and earth system science with CUHK members. On 11 February, they will give five public lectures on CUHK campus to share experience and expertise in their respective fields of research. The lecture will be conducted in Putonghua. Members of the public are welcome. For more information and registration, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/cas_2015/. 
Prof. Zhou Chenghu is a renowned scholar in geospatial information systems (GIS) and mapping. He is now the associate director of the Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research of CAS, where he obtained a Ph.D degree in GIS in 1992. Professor Zhou has been engaged in GIS, remote sensing and multidisciplinary research on geographical information.  In the lecture, Professor Zhou will introduce the development of GIS in China. 
Prof. Lin Qun, a prominent computational mathematician, is a research fellow of Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science of CAS. His areas of research include computational mathematics and accuracy and improvement of finite element methods. Conventional calculus is too hard and too complex. Students are forced to learn too many theorems and proofs. In his lecture entitled ‘Calculus Cartoon’, Professor Lin will suggest a direct approach to the two fundamental concepts of calculus -- differentiation and integration -- using two inequalities. 
Prof. Tong Qingxi is a pioneer in the application of remote sensing technologies in China. His research fields cover climate change, solar radiation, and hyperspectral remote sensing. He is a research fellow in the Institute of Remote Sensing and Digital Earth of CAS. He will share with us his views on the development and challenges of space-borne remote sensing in commercial utilization, disaster management, and urban planning in China. 
Prof. Chen Yong, graduated from the University of Science and Technology of China in Geophysics, is a prominent expert of seismology and rock physics.  Professor Chen serves as the director of the Division of Earth Sciences of CAS. He will share with us his latest research on the seismic hazard assessment and seismic risk analysis for earthquake prediction. 
Prof. Ma Zhiming is a research fellow of the Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science and the director of the School of Mathematical Sciences, the University of Science and Technology of China. His research areas include probability and statistics, random complex networks and information retrieval, Stochstic analysis and applications, and Markov processes and Dirichlet forms. Professor Ma will introduce the application of probability and statistics in different fields and its role in economics. 
Details of the lectures are as follows: 
Date: Wednesday, 11 February 2015
TimeSpeakerTopicModeratorVenue
3:00pm
Prof. Tong Qingxi
Commercialization of Space-borne remote sensing
Prof. Lin Hui, Director of Institute of Space and Earth Information Science
Room 303, Fok Ying Tung Remote Sensing Science Building
4:15pm
Prof. Zhou Chenghu
Development of GIS in China
Prof. Shen Jianfa, Department Chairman of Geography Resource Management
4:30pm 
Prof. Ma Zhiming
Application of Probability and Statistics in Different Fields
Prof. Shao Qiman, Department Chairman of Statistics
LT1, Lady Shaw Building
Prof. Lin Qun
Calculus Cartoon
Prof. Raymond Chan, Department Chairman of Mathematics
LT3, Lady Shaw Building
5:00pm
Prof. Chen Yong
Seismic Hazard Analysis and Earthquake Prediction
Prof. Wong Teng-fong, Programme Director of Earth System Science
L3, Science Center
 