[date]3 November 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds the ‘Sustainable Management of Water Resources in Hong Kong’ Forum[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) held a forum entitled ‘Sustainable Management of Water Resources in Hong Kong’ at ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay last Friday (31 October).  The forum, under the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, gathered experts from different background to share knowledge and insights on the sustainable management of water resources in Hong Kong.  More than 120 participants from public and private sectors, local schools and tertiary institutions took part in the event.
Mr Enoch Lam, Director of Water Supplies of the HKSAR Government, was the keynote speaker.  Other guest speakers included Ms Su Liu, former Head of Great China and Water Policy Research, Civic Exchange, and Prof. Carlos Lo, Vice-chairperson of the Board of Governors, Friends of the Earth (HK).  The forum was chaired by Prof. Kwai-cheong Chau, Adjunct Associate Professor of the Department of Geography and Resource Management, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). 
Mr Enoch Lam discussed at the forum the challenges facing Hong Kong’s water resources, and potential solutions for sustainable management of water resources.  He noted that major challenges to Hong Kong’s water resources included climate change, population growth, and increasing demand for Dongjiang River in the Guangdong region.  While there was no immediate impact, Hong Kong should be aware of the need for a total water management strategy and for the reduction in reliance on imported water from Dongjiang River.  The Water Supplies Department has started to explore new water sources, improve the water supply network and cultivate a water conservation culture, and will review the Total Water Management Strategy launched in 2008.  Mr Lam encouraged all Hong Kong citizens to be part of the Let’s Save 10L Water Campaign, thereby laying a good foundation for developing Hong Kong into a water-saving city and ensuring sustainable water resources. 
During the Question and Answer Session, participants raised questions about the management of water resources in Hong Kong, and exchanged views with the speakers and Mr Kam Wing Kee, Chief Engineer of the Water Supplies Department, on various aspects of the topic. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.