[date]23 November 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Wu Yee Sun College Celebrates New Campus Opening
Offering College Experience for 1,200 students[/title]
Wu Yee Sun College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) celebrated its Grand Opening recently. Officiating at the Grand Opening Ceremony were Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Dr. Joseph Y.W. Pang, Chairman of Wu Yee Sun College Committee of Overseers; Mr. Arthur Wu, Representative from Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited; Prof. Rance P.L. Lee, Master of Wu Yee Sun College of CUHK and Mr. Frankie K.F. Fung, President of Wu Yee Sun College Student Union. Over 350 guests including staff members of the University, benefactors, students and friends attended today to witness this historical moment of the College.
Addressing at the inaugural ceremony, Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, paid tribute to the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited for their trust and support provided to the University for the establishment of Wu Yee Sun College. He remarked, ‘With the opening of Wu Yee Sun College, all five new colleges have inaugurated their campuses, marking an important milestone of CUHK. I hope all colleges will continue to make good progress, create synergies through collaboration, follow the tradition of college to provide the best whole-person education and comprehensive guidance to our students.’
Mr. Arthur Wu, representative of Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited said, ‘Today, we are delighted to witness the opening of the College named after my late grandfather Dr. Wu Yee Sun. “Yee Sun” is not only the given name of my grandfather but also carries special meanings. “Yee” means appropriateness and benefits while “Sun” means descendants. “Yee Sun” represents the belief of education which is beneficial to future generations. My grandfather’s philosophies are precisely the values and motto that Wu Yee Sun College strives to instill in its students.’
Prof. Rance P.L. Lee, College Master of Wu Yee Sun College, remarked, ‘Our College mission is to promote “entrepreneurial spirit with social responsibility”. We wish to educate our students that they should have a clear vision and effective strategy, as well as innovative ideas and passion in anything they endeavor. But they should also be mindful to the welfare of others, especially in terms of social-environmental issues, social justice, and underprivileged.’
Following the ribbon-cutting and time capsule dedication ceremony that marked the Grand Opening of the College, a Pipa performance and a traditional Lion Dance were presented. A series of celebratory activities including the Long Rope Skipping Competition and the anniversary banquet organized by college students were held after the ceremony.
About Wu Yee Sun College
Wu Yee Sun College was established in 2007 with very generous support from the Wu Yee Sun Charitable Foundation Limited. This substantial financial support enables the College to build its stunning new campus, capable of accommodating a total of 1,200 students with 600 hostel places. The College admitted its first cohort of freshmen in 2012. The College Motto is ‘Scholarship and Perseverance’ and along this, the College offers various general education programmes, as well as international and local exposure opportunities to students aiming at cultivating creative, passionate and socially responsible future leaders. The College also offers comprehensive scholarships and financial aid schemes, and different funding programmes to support students in developing their own-initiated projects and realizing their dreams.