[date]28 November 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host Parent Education Seminars to Support Children’s Literacy Development
Now Open for Registration[/title]
The Faculty of Education, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held a public seminar under the READ &amp; WRITE: A Jockey Club Learning Support Network (READ &amp; WRITE Project) recently.  The seminar, with the theme on ‘Families and Schools Working together for Joyful Ways to Reading’ and an introduction of the upcoming series of parent education seminars, was met with enthusiastic responses from the public.  Close to 200 participants attended the seminar, including representatives from the Education Bureau, professionals from the social services sector, principals, teachers, and parents from primary schools.  Prof. Leung Seung-ming, Dean of the Faculty of Education, CUHK; Prof. Cheng Pui-wan, Principal Investigator of the READ &amp; WRITE Project, and Ms. Jasmine Chung, Charities Manager of the Hong Kong Jockey Club, were Guests of Honour. 
The READ &amp; WRITE Project was sponsored by the Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust with an endowment of over HK$150 million to provide comprehensive educational support for children’s literacy development, including those with significant reading and writing difficulties. The project began in September 2006 and this year (2014) is its ninth and final year.  A range of courses was offered to teachers and parents in supporting struggling readers’ literacy development with effective methods.  Around 4,700 primary school teachers, over 2,000 kindergarten principals and teachers, and more than 3,000 primary school parents have received training in the past eight years. 
The READ &amp; WRITE Project will host a series of parent education seminars with the theme ‘Support the Child to Read with Joy and to Grow Up with Fun’ in coming December and April 2015. Parents who are interested in taking part in the December seminars can register online: http://www.fed.cuhk.edu.hk/~tdspld, or call 3943 1129 for more information.