[date]7 January 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Students Spread Love and Care to 3,000 Underprivileged Neighbours [/title]
The ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) concluded its second year of service with the Distinguished Service Award Presentation Ceremony and Sharing Session held recently. The ceremony was officiated by Prof. Simon KWAN, Associate Director, Divinity School of Chung Chi College, CUHK, and Co-Chairman of the programme’s steering committee. 
In the past year, the programme joined hands with 29 faith-based social service centres, schools, churches and hospitals in Shatin, Taipo and Ma On Shan to conduct 63 service learning projects.  Over 700 students participated in the projects and over 2,500 underprivileged people were served.  The total number of service hours was nearly 12,000. 
Service awards were presented to students with outstanding performance in the programme, including the Most Enthusiastic Planner and Implementer Service Award, the Strongest Rallying Power Service Award, the Most Benevolent Service Award, the Longest Service Time Award, and the Deepest Reflections Service Award. 
The students demonstrated creativity and diversity in their service, including offering outdoor photography classes for the physically-disabled and mentally-retarded; setting educational game booths to promote mutual support and care for the disabled in the community; helping high school students with financial difficulties to get along with their families and set their life goals; providing music therapy sessions for elderly with dementia or requiring social support; and promoting family harmony through adventure-based activities for underprivileged families.  Looking ahead, Professor Kwan said the programme will have a new focus and direction in the coming year. Apart from the variety of service-learning projects already carried out, students will try to introduce the concept of community integration in a new small public housing estate in Shatin, for example, by setting up cooperatives to relieve poverty. 
During the ceremony, Professor Kwan expressed his gratitude to various parties for their support of the programme, including Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation, CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Joseph SUNG, experts and scholars on the steering committee of the programme, the cooperating welfare organizations, participating CUHK students, the neighbouring communities, as well as The Rev. Prof. Lung Kwong LO, the Honorary Advisor and former Co-Chair of the programme. 
Some of the benefitted elderly, secondary and primary school students and ethnic minority children were invited to join the Distinguished Service Award Presentation Ceremony and Sharing Session and share the fruitful results. ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ will recruit more CUHK students to join in the coming year and strengthen the training provided to them. It is hoped that more well-organized services will be delivered to more people in need. 
About ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ 
With a generous donation from Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation, CUHK launched the ‘Love Your Neighbour Service Learning Programme’ in 2012.  It aims to encourage students to care about and serve the underprivileged in Shatin, Taipo and Ma On Shan, by organizing or participating in various service projects. The Programme was initiated by Ms. Chau Hoi-shuen and orchestrated by the Divinity School of Chung Chi College, CUHK, in collaboration with various social service agencies and schools in Shatin, Taipo and Ma On Shan. In the past two years, over 1,200 CUHK students participated in the projects and more than 5,000 underprivileged people were served. 
For more details about the Programme, please visit: www.cuhk.edu.hk/loveyn.