[date]3 November 2014[/date]
[title]Yu Ying-shih Lecture in History 2014 by Prof. Huang Chin-shing, Institute of History and Philology, Academia Sinica
ALL are welcome[/title]
To enhance cultural exchange and academic research, Chung Chi College, New Asia College and the Department of History of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) have joined hands to establish the ‘Yu Ying-shih Lecture in History’ since 2007. This year, we have invited Prof. Huang Chin-shing, Distinguished Research Fellow and Director from the Institute of History and Philology, Academia Sinica in Taiwan to be the guest speaker of two public lectures. The lectures will be conducted in Putonghua. Members of the public are welcome with details as follows: 
First Lecture
Topic:
The Cult of Confucius and the Imperial System of Rites
Date:
Thursday, 6 November 2014
Time:
4:30 – 6:30pm
Venue:
Cho Yiu Hall, G/F, University Administration Building, CUHK
Moderator:
Prof. Yip Hon-ming, Chair and Professor, Department of History, CUHK
Reservation: 
kirstenchu@cuhk.edu.hk
Reserved seats will be released 5 minutes before the lecture. 
Second Lecture
Topic:
Confucian Ethic and Economic Development: Myth or Fact?
Date:
Sunday, 9 November 2014
Time:
6 – 8pm
Venue:
Lecture Theatre, G/F, Hong Kong Central Library, 66 Causeway Road, Causeway Bay
Moderator: 
Prof. Leung Yuen-sang, Dean of Arts, CUHK
No reservations.
General enquiries: Tel: 3943-7609 / Email: nac@cuhk.edu.hk        
The ‘Yu Ying-shih Lecture in History’ has been successfully held for six years.  Previous speakers included Prof. Hsu Cho-yun, University of Pittsburgh, USA; Prof. Wang Gung-wu, National University of Singapore and former President of The University of Hong Kong; Prof. Chang Hao, Ohio State University, USA and Professor Emeritus of The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; Prof. Wang Fan-sen, Academia Sinica, Taiwan; and Prof. Luo Zhitian, History Department, Peking University and School of History and Culture, Sichuan University.