[date]20 January 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK S.H. Ho College Launches Young Entrepreneur Programme
First Independent Bookstore on Campus Opens[/title]
S.H. Ho College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has launched 'Young Entrepreneur Programme' to motivate students and alumni to turn innovative and entrepreneurial ideas into reality. The first winning entrepreneurial project in the programme, 'Timing Bookstore', is a concept from six undergraduate students and alumni. They have been given a 300 sq. ft. indoor space on the ground floor of Chan Chun Ha Hall on campus to run the University’s first independent second-hand bookstore. The bookstore differentiates itself from other mainstream bookstores in the way it operates, with the aim of enriching students' reading experience. 
The 'Young Entrepreneur Programme' invited college members to submit business proposals in June last year, which were evaluated by a selection panel comprising a professor of the Faculty of Business Administration, an administrator of the Business Office and a social entrepreneur. Selection criteria included innovativeness, business feasibility, management, sponsorship, financial planning and the social awareness of each proposal. The programme helps young entrepreneurs to acquire essential skills in running a business and widen their network. Participants will be granted valuable operating space on campus. Dr. Andrew Yuen, Associate Dean of General Education, S.H. Ho College, and Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Business Administration will serve as a consultant to guide them along.
Prof. Samuel Sun, College Master, said, 'S.H. Ho College has been helping students to cultivate innovative ideas, cultural understanding and care for society. The 'Young Entrepreneur Programme' (YEP) was  launched to help young entrepreneurs to incubate their business plans even if they only have small capital to start with,' He appreciated the vision of the Timing Bookstore to enrich the reading experience of students.
'Timing Bookstore' has been initiated by a group of students from various disciplines. They wish to run it in an untraditional way. They will encourage readers to share their book lists with different themes, organize various cultural activities, and promote reading via an interactive online platform. The 300 sq. ft. operating space provided by the College has its own electricity supply and entrance, and is conveniently located on the University Avenue, facing the school bus stop.
Dr. Andrew Yuen, Associate Dean of General Education, S.H. Ho College, and Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Business Administration said, 'University students often struggle between dream and reality, theory and practice, as well as innovation and tradition. Timing Bookstore strikes a perfect balance between all of them. The students have put a lot of effort into doing market research, and promoting the bookstore through online platforms and multimedia. During the selection process, I have been delighted to see the excellent performance of other teams. I could feel their passion in pursuing their dreams and their sense of social responsibility.'
The 'Young Entrepreneur Programme' launching ceremony and the opening of Timing Bookstore were held on 12 January, officiated by Prof. Samuel Sun, College Master; Prof. KB Wong, College Dean of Students; Gary Fung, representative of Timing Bookstore; and Ferdinand Tsang, representative of the Student Union of the College. After the ceremony, the guests visited Timing Bookstore to learn more about the students' vision and plans.