[date]20 October 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold the
‘Sustainable Management of Water Resources in Hong Kong’ Forum
Open for Public Registration
[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold a forum entitled ‘Sustainable Management of Water Resources in Hong Kong’ at ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay on Friday, 31 October.  The forum, under the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’, will bring together experts from different backgrounds to share knowledge and insights on the sustainable management of water resources in Hong Kong. 
At the forum, Mr Enoch Lam, Director of Water Supplies of the HKSAR Government, will deliver a keynote speech on the challenges facing Hong Kong’s water resources and potential solutions for sustainable management of water resources.  Ms Su Liu, Head of Great China and Water Policy Research, Civic Exchange, and Prof. Carlos Lo, Vice-chairperson of the Board of Governors, Friends of the Earth, will share their views on the topic and interact with the participants. 
Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Sustainable Management of Water Resources in Hong Kong
Date: Friday, 31 October 2014Time: 3:00 pm–5:00 pmVenue: Multi-purpose Hall, ZCB (Zero Carbon Building), 8 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay
The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.  Limited seats are available on a first-come, first-served basis.  Interested parties can register at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.
 