[date]20 November 2014[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 76th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 76th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees (Congregation) today (20 November). Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, presided over the congregation and conferred all Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees. On the same occasion, Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President, officiated at the Inauguration of the Choh-Ming Li Professorships and presented awards to 26 outstanding teachers and researchers in recognition of their achievements. 
Inauguration of the Choh-Ming Li Professorships 
At the Congregation, Professor Sung officiated at the installation of thirteen outstanding professors as the Choh-Ming Li Professors.  They are recognized for their remarkable performance in teaching and research and their outstanding contributions to the Faculty and University.  Established in 2013, this professorship was named after the late Dr. Choh-Ming Li, a distinguished scholar and the founding Vice-Chancellor of CUHK who laid the solid foundation of the University in its early years.  The Choh-Ming Li Professors will be provided with funds to support their academic and research pursuits during the appointment term of five years.  They are: 
Prof. Vernon N. Hsu
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Decision Sciences and Managerial Economics
Prof. Hui King-man Michael
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Marketing
Prof. Leung Kwok
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Management
Prof. Ching Pak-chung
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Electronic Engineering
Prof. Huang Jie
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Prof. Lui Chi-shing John
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Computer Science and Engineering
Prof. Wong Wing-shing
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Information Engineering
Prof. Chiu Wai-kwun Rossa
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Chemical Pathology
Prof. Fok Tai-fai
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Paediatrics
Prof. Lan Hui-yao
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Biomedical Sciences
Prof. Jiang Liwen
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Life Sciences
Prof. Xia Keqing
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Physics
Prof. Chiu Chi-yue
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Psychology
University Education Award 2014 
The University instituted the University Education Award in 2011-12 to honour academics for outstanding commitment to the promotion of teaching excellence. Recipients of the award are commended for their contributions to enhancing the student learning experience through curriculum design/development, for scholarship in teaching and learning, as well as their adoption of learner-centred approaches. The selection panel of the university-wide education award comprises the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education), Associate Deans (Education) of the eight Faculties and the Director of University General Education. The awardees of the University Education Award 2014 were Prof. Lee Wing-yan Vivian, Faculty of Medicine; and Prof. Ngai Sek-yum Steven, Faculty of Social Science. 
Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2013 
The Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award has been given annually since 1999 by the Vice-Chancellor to exemplary teachers nominated by the Dean of each Faculty in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year, eight awardees were presented with this prestigious award: Prof. Ho Che-wah, Faculty of Arts; Dr. Ku Kei-tat Fred, Faculty of Business Administration; Dr. Luk Sau-ha Sarah, Faculty of Education; Prof. So Man-cho Anthony, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Stephen Hall, Faculty of Law; Prof. Cheng Hon-ki Christopher, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Poon Wai-yin, Faculty of Science; and Prof. To Siu-ming, Faculty of Social Science. A total of 112 outstanding educators have been given the award since 1999, nine of whom received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance. 
Young Researcher Award 2013 and Postgraduate Research Output Award 2013 
The Young Researcher Award and the Postgraduate Research Output Award were established in 2002 to recognize the research accomplishments of young faculty members and to encourage quality research. The Young Researcher Award is open to all eligible full-time teachers at Assistant Professor rank or above and below the age of 45. The Postgraduate Research Output Award is open to all eligible full-time or part-time postgraduate students of the University. The Dean of each Faculty is invited every year to nominate, for each award, one member who has produced the best research output. The Research Committee considers nominations received and recommends successful candidates for approval by the Administrative and Planning Committee. 
Recipients of the Young Researcher Award 2013 were Prof. Puk Wing-kin, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Zhou Xiang Sean, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Ng Fei Yin Florrie, Faculty of Education; Prof. Chen Minghua, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Michael Ramsden, Faculty of Law; Prof. Ng Siew-chien, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Ngai To, Faculty of Science; and Prof. Chan Chi-ho Wallace, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and an amount of HK$100,000 in the form of a research grant. 
Recipients of the Postgraduate Research Output Award 2013 were Dr. Li Lin, Faculty of Arts; Ms. Wen Shanshan, Faculty of Business Administration; Dr. John O’Reilly, Faculty of Education; Dr. Cheng Zhenzhou, Faculty of Engineering; Dr. Danny Friedmann, Faculty of Law; Dr. Li Qian, Faculty of Medicine; Dr. Shen Jinbo, Faculty of Science; and Dr. Chan Ka Shing Kevin, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and a prize of HK$25,000 in cash. 
Master’s and Bachelor’s Degree Graduates in 2014 
A total of 6,414 Master’s degrees and 3,385 Bachelor’s degrees were conferred at the congregation. Among the latter were 483 Bachelor of Arts, 606 Bachelor of Business Administration (including one graduate who was simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree), 38 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 33 Bachelor of Education, 408 Bachelor of Engineering, 58 Bachelor of Laws, 28 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 173 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 235 Bachelor of Nursing, 31 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 711 Bachelor of Science (including seven graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme, as well as the first batch of 16 Bachelor of Science in Gerontology and 25 Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science and Health Education, both being two-year full-time undergraduate programmes for associate degree / high diploma holders), and 543 Bachelor of Social Science degrees (including the first batch of 25 Bachelor of Social Science in Global Studies, a two-year full-time undergraduate programme for associate degree / high diploma holders).
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=182&amp;s=
 
 