[date]27 November 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Seventh CAE Academicians Lecture Series
Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the seventh Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) Academicians Visit Programme from 2 to 5 December 2014.  Three distinguished academicians including Prof. Liu Depei of the Division of Health Engineering, Prof. Guo Renzhong and Prof. Li Jiancheng of the Division of Civil Hydraulic and Architecture Engineering will visit CUHK for academic exchange.  They will deliver public lectures and meet with CUHK representatives to discuss collaboration opportunities in the fields of earth science and medical engineering. 
The scholars will visit the Faculty of Engineering, the Department of Geography and Resource Management, the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability, the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, the Orthopadeic Learning Center, the CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre, and the Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences. On 3 December, they will give three public lectures on CUHK campus to share experience and expertise in their respective fields of research. The lecture will be conducted in Putonghua. Members of the public are welcome. For more information and registration, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2014/ or call 3943-8728. 
Prof. Liu Depei is now a professor of medical molecular biology of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College (CAMS &amp; PUMC), where he obtained a Ph.D degree in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in 1986, and served as the president earlier. At the State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology in CAMS &amp; PUMC, Professor Liu has been engaged in molecular biology research including the regulation of gene expression, transgenic animals and disease models, gene transfer and gene therapy.  He will share the latest research on gene therapy and molecular mechanisms of cardiovascular diseases at his public lecture entitled ‘Protective Roles of SIRT1 in Arteriosclerotic Cardiovascular Diseases’. 
Prof. Guo Renzhong is the deputy director of the Urban Planning, Land and Resources Commission of Shenzhen Municipality. His research areas include geographic information science (GIS), geospatial technology, 3D cadastre, digital city management and spatial analysis. Professor Guo will share his views on GIS application in urban planning with examples of town planning and real estate valuations in his lecture. 
Prof. Li Jiancheng is a geodesist pioneering in surveying and mapping. He currently serves as the dean of the School of Geodesy and Geomatics at Wuhan University. Professor Li graduated from Wuhan Technical University of Surveying and Mapping and his research fields cover geophysical geodesy, satellite geodesy, satellite altimetry, and surveying. Professor Li will give a presentation on the development of Geodetic Survey in China.