[date]23 October 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Holds Naming Ceremony of Li Wei Bo Building 
CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held the Naming Ceremony of Li Wei Bo Building, CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute today (23 October).  Officiating guests included Dr. Li Weibo, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Glory Harvest Group Holdings Limited and Honorary Chairman, Li Weibo Charitable Foundation; Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President, CUHK; and Prof. Benjamin W. Wah, Provost and Acting Director of Shenzhen Research Institute, CUHK.  Dr. Li Weibo has been a staunch supporter of the University.  In 2007, he made a generous donation to CUHK for its long-term development, in particular the development of the CUHK Shenzhen Institute and the construction of its main building.  In appreciation of Dr. Li’s support, the University has named the building as Li Wei Bo Building, CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute.
About CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute and Li Wei Bo Building 
The CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute was established in 2007 and has since then been actively involved in research, education and technology transfer in Shenzhen and the Pearl River Delta Region.  Through the Institute, CUHK can advance its collaboration with Shenzhen in these areas and also contribute to technology innovation and economic and cultural development in Hong Kong and mainland China.  The establishment of the Institute is also a monumental milestone in Shenzhen-Hong Kong cooperation which brings both cities’ prominence in to full play. 
Over the past years, the Institute has made significant progress and its research strength has been widely recognized.  It has undertaken various important science and technology projects commissioned by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China, the National Natural Science Foundation and the Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province.  It has also been working closely with local authorities on various research missions.  Leveraging the academic strengths of CUHK, the Institute has been focusing on basic research in areas of agricultural product and food safety, biotechnology, internet and information technology, as well as economics and social subjects, to support the National Science and Technology Development Plan and meet the development needs of Shenzhen.  A total of 32 laboratories have been built.  In 2011, the Institute was granted by the Shenzhen Peacock Plan to establish an innovative research team of agricultural biotechnology. 
So far, the Institute has been approved to establish four Shenzhen key laboratories, namely the ‘Key Laboratory of Critical Technology and Application of Network Coding’, ‘Key Laboratory of Health Risk Analysis’, ‘Key Laboratory of Chemical Synthesis of Small Organic Molecules for Medical Use’, and ‘Key Laboratory of Big Data Analysis and Application of Rich Media’, as well as three Shenzhen engineering laboratories, namely ‘Vegetables Biotechnology Engineering Laboratory’, ‘Wireless Positioning Technology and System Engineering Laboratory’, and ‘Speech Therapy and Rehabilitation Technology Engineering Laboratory’. 
The Li Wei Bo Building, CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute was opened in 2011.  It is located in the Shenzhen Virtual University Park in the Nanshan District of Shenzhen.  The nine-storey building, with a gross floor area of 25,000 square meters, is equipped with comprehensive facilities for training, research and technology transfer. 
About Dr. Li Weibo 
A successful industrialist, Dr. Li Weibo has been engaged in the industrial construction and real estate business in Shenzhen and South China for many years.  Dr. Li is highly supportive of community welfare, having served as a member of the Board of the Yan Chai Hospital Committee for many years.  He is concerned about social affairs and is especially supportive of education.  He has made generous donations for scholarships to enable mainland students to study at CUHK, served as Advisor during the preparatory stage of CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute, and launched the ‘Shenzhen Li Weibo Charitable Foundation’ in November 2013.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=180&amp;s=
 