[date]27 October 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK and Shun Hing Group Present Lecture by
Renowned Filmmaker Sylvia Chang
'Failure is the Nutrient of Success'
Live Webcast Available for Public[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is privileged to welcome Ms Sylvia Chang, renowned actress, scriptwriter and director, as a guest speaker for the Shun Hing Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities co-organized by CUHK and Shun Hing Group.  Ms Sylvia Chang will speak on the topic ‘Failure is the Nutrient of Success’ next Friday (31 October) on CUHK campus.  The lecture has received overwhelming response and was oversubscribed shortly after registration kicked off.  The University will arrange live webcast in high definition (HD) and standard definition (SD, recommended for smartphone users) for the public.  Please view the live webcast at: www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/lectures/sylviachang.  The lecture will be conducted in Putonghua. 
Ms Sylvia Chang was born in Chiayi, Taiwan. She is a famous director, scriptwriter, filmmaker, actress, composer and singer in Taiwan and Hong Kong. 
Ms Chang has been involved in the film industry for more than 40 years, acting in over 100 movies. Her superb acting skills have been well-recognized through major film awards, including the Taipei Golden Horse Film Award for Best Leading Actress, and the Hong Kong Film Award for Best Actress, as well as numerous nominations at film festivals. 
In the 1980s, Ms Chang made the move from acting to producing and directing. Her film style is distinctive and full of realism. She was strong in scripting the emotions of women and describing the range of feelings from youth to old age. As a result, her films resonated with many fans in different age groups. Ms Chang’s popular works include: Passion, Tonight Nobody Goes Home, Sisters of the World Unite, and 20 30 40. Ms Chang also produced a film Run Papa Run, which depicted in depth, the relationship of a man with his daughter. Ms Chang has received many awards and nominations for her exceptionally creative contributions to film, including Best Film and Best Screenplay at the Asia Pacific Film Festival. 
Introduction of Shun Hing Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities
The Shun Hing Lecture Series in Arts and Humanities was established with a generous donation from the Shun Hing Group.  The lecture series aims at promoting cultural knowledge and scholarly pursuits in the arts and humanities.  Distinguished scholars from four major areas, Music, Drama and Film, Literature and Art, as well as Philosophy and Thinking, have been invited to give public lectures.  Previous lectures hosted by picture book author Mr. Jimmy Liao, composer Dr. Lam Bun-ching, sculptor Prof. Wu Weishan, and Confucian Scholar Prof. Tu Weiming have been very successful in inspiring the younger generation. 
Following in the philanthropic footsteps of the Group’s Founder, the late Dr William Mong Man Wai, who firmly believed in the spirit of giving back to society, the Shun Hing Group embraces corporate social responsibility and over the years has generously donated towards various projects in education, scientific research, arts and culture, sports and recreation, as well as environmental protection.