[date]9 February 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change Presents
Premiere of The Drama of Climate Change[/title]
To increase public understanding of climate change, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) presented an original play The Drama of Climate Change which premiered at ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay last Friday (6 February).  The performance was well received by an audience of 135 from the government and public sector, green groups, tertiary institutions, as well as primary and secondary schools. 
The MoCC, under the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia, features interactive and multimedia exhibits showcasing valuable collections and information about climate change.  It is an ideal venue for the public, especially students and teachers, to keep themselves abreast of the latest development on environmental conservation and sustainability. 
The Drama of Climate Change, packaged with practical knowledge and exuberant fantasies, offers a vision for the future and inspires students to take immediate and innovative actions to reduce carbon emission and adopt an environmentally sustainable lifestyle.  The play will tour around secondary and primary schools in the territory from February through May.  Produced and performed by Chung Ying Theatre Company, a renowned expert in the theatre-in-education approach, the play will engage an audience of over 5,000 including teachers, secondary and primary students and the public. 
Professor Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), said, ‘Thanks to the support of the Environment Bureau, green industry and community organizations, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has since its inception two and a half years ago offered a wide range of educational activities to promote environmental conservation and sustainability in Hong Kong.  Its efforts have been much valued by the school sector and local communities.’  Professor Fok also thanked the guests for their commitment to grooming future green leaders. 
Officiating at the premiere was Ms Anissa Wong, JP, Permanent Secretary for the Environment / Director of Environmental Protection of The Government of Hong Kong SAR.  Ms Wong said that the government is supportive of innovative efforts, such as The Drama of Climate Change, to raise public awareness of climate issues.  She hoped that Hong Kong people, as global citizens, could work hand in hand to protect the environment and make Hong Kong a low-carbon, sustainable city, while the government will continue, through the formulation and implementation of forward-looking and relevant policies and measures, reducing carbon emission and mitigating climate change.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  The programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through a carbon reduction partnership with schools and non-governmental organizations, the organization of a forum series on climate change and environment, and the establishment of a museum on climate change. 
Opened in December 2013, the MoCC is the territory’s first museum dedicated to the theme of climate change, and is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.  In addition to the regular exhibits, the MoCC also features, from time to time, special thematic exhibitions on new discoveries and developments on climate change, environmental conservation and sustainability.  More details of the MoCC can be found at www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/MoCC.