[date]3 March 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds the ‘Green Mini Movies Festival 2015’[/title]
The Green Mini Movies Festival 2015 hosted by the ‘Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme’ (Go Green Community) of CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) has concluded successfully.  By producing green mini movies on their own, the participating students have been encouraged to think about how their daily habits affect the environment, explore innovative ways of putting eco-friendly living into practice, and deliver the message of green living to the public.  The champion of the primary schools category is Tai Po Old Market Public School and the winner of the secondary schools category is CNEC Christian College.
At the recently held prize presentation ceremony, Prof. FUNG Tung, Associate Vice-President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Prof. Gabriel LAU, Director of the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability of CUHK, Ms Janis CHAN, Executive Director of Green Monday, and Ms Nicole WONG, Director of Corporate Affairs of the World Wide Fund For Nature Hong Kong, presented the awards to the winning students.  The event was warmly received by over 120 students and teachers from 27 schools. 
The participating students treasured the experience and found themselves becoming more concerned about environmental issues.  They hope to promote low-carbon living to the public through their movies.  The winners of the Green Mini Movies Competition are as follows:
 
Primary Schools Category
Secondary Schools Category
Champion
Tai Po Old Market Public School
CNEC Christian College
First Runner-up
Yuen Long Government Primary School
CCC Fong Yun Wah Secondary School
Second Runner-up
Oblate Primary School
CCC Mong Man Wai College
Christian Alliance H.C. Chan Primary School
Best Screenplay
Yuen Long Government Primary School
CNEC Christian College
‘My Favourite’ Award
Chiu Yang Por Yen Primary School
QualiEd College
The green mini movies are available for viewing on the website of Gaia: http://www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia/greenminimoviesfestival2015.html
 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.