[date]27 November 2014[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change Launches Themed Exhibition on ‘Climate Change and Its Impact’[/title]
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) launched, together with the School of Architecture and the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), its first themed exhibition on ‘Climate Change and Its Impact’ today (27 November).  From now on till 31 January 2015, members of the public are welcome to visit the exhibition for a deeper understanding on climate change and how it is related to our daily lives.  Officiating at the opening ceremony were Ms Shirley FISHER, Charities Manager of The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC), Mr Pak-shing TAI, Principal of TWGHs Yow Kam Yuen College, Prof. Tung FUNG, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, and Prof. Nelson CHEN, Director of the School of Architecture of CUHK. 
The Exhibition uses eye-catching graphics and vivid examples to illustrate the basic concepts of climate change and its impact on the environment, ecology and public health.  Visitors can participate in the fun quiz by scanning the QR codes on the display panels, strengthening their understanding on various topics about climate change.  They are also encouraged to make a personal commitment to help reduce carbon emissions and engage in environmental protection at both individual and organizational levels.  Members of the public are welcome.  Admission is free.  Details are as follows:  
Exhibition Period:
27 November 2014 to 31 January 2015Closed on Wednesdays, Sundays, Public Holidays and University Holidays (24 and 31   December, and Lunar New Year Eve)
Opening Hours:
9:30 am – 5:00 pm
Venue:
Yasumoto International Academic Park 8/F, CUHK
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  The programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through a carbon reduction partnership with schools and non-governmental organizations, the organization of a forum series on climate change and environment, and the establishment of a museum on climate change.
Opened in December 2013, the MoCC is the territory’s first museum dedicated to the theme of climate change, and is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.  In addition to the regular exhibits, the MoCC also features, from time to time, special thematic exhibitions on new discoveries and developments on climate change, environmental conservation and sustainability.  More details of the MoCC can be found at www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/MoCC.