[date]24 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds the ‘Biodiversity Conservation’ Forum[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) held a forum entitled ‘Biodiversity Conservation’ at the Hong Kong Scout Centre in Tsim Sha Tsui today (24 April).  The forum as a part of the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, gathered experts from different sectors to share knowledge and insights on biodiversity conservation.  One hundred and forty participants from public and private sectors, local schools and tertiary institutions attended the event.
Mr Simon Chan, Senior Conservation Officer (Biodiversity) of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department, HKSAR Government, was the keynote speaker.  Other guest speakers included Dr Billy Hau, Principal Lecturer, School of Biological Sciences of The University of Hong Kong, and Mr George Jor, Founder of Grateful Green Group.  The forum was chaired by Prof. Lee-man Chu, Associate Professor, School of Life Sciences of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
At the forum, Mr Chan introduced to the audience Hong Kong’s diversified ecological environment and rich biodiversity, and discussed the importance of and challenges facing biodiversity conservation.  As part of BSAP, and in order to devise effective policies and action plans for biodiversity conservation in Hong Kong, AFCD established a three-tier committee, which is composed of scholars, experts and green groups.  Mr Chan also encouraged ideas and active participation from the public.
During the Question and Answer session, participants raised questions about biodiversity conservation, and had a fruitful discussion with the speakers.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.