[date]6 May 2015[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Fourteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold its Fourteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony on Monday, 11 May on campus. Five distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK will be conferred honorary fellowships in recognition of their remarkable contributions to the University and the community.
Mr. CHOI Park-lai
Mr. Choi Park-lai is well-known in both local and overseas Chinese communities for his invaluable contributions to the preservation and development of traditional Chinese folk culture (especially geomancy). His almanac has been widely adopted by Chinese people around the world and was honoured by the Guangdong Provincial Government as Cultural Heritage in 2013. Mr. Choi has made significant contributions to education and social welfare in Hong Kong and mainland China, and established the Hong Kong Shun Lung Yan Chak Foundation which supported the construction of two hospitals in rural areas of Guangdong, as well as a number of nonprofit schools in Hong Kong, Yunnan and Cambodia. He was named an Honorary Citizen of Foshan City by the Guangdong Provincial Government, and World Outstanding Chinese by the United World Chinese Association. Mr. Choi is a staunch supporter of CUHK and has made generous donations to the University and the Wu Yee Sun College to provide scholarships and bursaries, support for student internship programmes, the I‧CARE Programme and professorship schemes, and for the purchase of equipment.
Mr. LAU Chor-tak
Mr. Lau Chor-tak, a prominent entrepreneur and philanthropist, is Chairman of the Lau Chor Tak Foundation Limited, Managing Director of Tak Kee Cotton Yarn Company Limited, and Managing Director of Fung Shing Land Investment Company Limited. Mr. Lau is highly acclaimed by industry for his integrity, and provides an exemplary model for youngsters with his diligence and perseverance. He has supported educational endeavours in Hong Kong and mainland China for over half a century by establishing many schools in Jiangxi and Ningxia, as well as making munificent donations to local universities, so nurturing talents for society. Mr. Lau has made generous donations to support the development of the Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF) of CUHK, including the establishment of the ‘Lau Chor Tak Distinguished Lecture on Global Economics and Finance’, in which prominent scholars and experts are invited to deliver lectures and exchange views on the latest developments in the global and Chinese economies or related topics of public interest. In appreciation of the support by Mr. Lau, the University has named a Lecture Theatre of the Yasumoto International Academic Park as ‘Lau Chor Tak Lecture Theatre’.
Dr. LI Wai-tat Walton
Dr. Li Wai-tat Walton is currently the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Medical Superintendent, Hong Kong Sanatorium &amp; Hospital (HKSH), and Clinical Associate Professor (honorary), Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences of CUHK. Dr. Li obtained his medical qualification in the US and there completed his Fellowship in Corneal and External Ocular Disease and his Diploma of the American Board of Ophthalmology. Dr. Li returned to Hong Kong in 1980 and joined HKSH where he established and headed the Department of Ophthalmology. He has made significant contributions to the medical profession in Hong Kong. Under his leadership, HKSH has affiliated with local tertiary institutions since 1998 to provide clinical attachment opportunities for medical students and launch a full-time nursing programme, helping to ease the shortage of manpower and foster the upgrading of nursing training to a degree-based education. In 2013, The Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation, chaired by Dr. Li, established the Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professorship in Clinical Oncology at the CUHK Faculty of Medicine in support of research in clinical oncology, and in memory of the late Dr. Li Shu Fan, the first Medical Superintendent of HKSH and uncle of Dr. Walton Li.
Mr. YAU Ying-sum William
Mr. Yau Ying-sum William, a distinguished entrepreneur in the garment industry and alumnus of CUHK, is the Founder and Managing Director of Ongood Industrial Limited. As a devoted textile industrialist for 40 years, Mr. Yau has made significant contributions in promoting the garment industry and actively represents the industry in public service. He is a member of the Executive Committee of the Hong Kong Garment Manufacturers Association and was a member of the Textile and Clothing Training Board of the Vocational Training Council. Mr. Yau is also enthusiastic in the service of education and has generously donated to CUHK, United College and the CUHK Federation of Alumni Associations to set up a number of scholarships and to support various kinds of student development programmes. He is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of United College and an Honorary Advisor of the Alumni Association, giving invaluable advice to the College. He was a member of the Committee of the 2014 Alumni Homecoming Anniversary Classes Donation Campaign, and has helped in the establishment of and the fund raising for the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund to support the long term development of the University.
Dr. YU Yui-chiu
Dr. Yu Yui-chiu is an experienced legal professional, currently the Senior Partner of Messrs Yu Tsang &amp; Loong, Solicitors and Notaries Public. He has been a Solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and the Supreme Court of Hong Kong since 1966, a Notary Public of Hong Kong since 1974, and has been admitted to the Supreme Court of Singapore as well as Victoria, Australia. Dr. Yu has contributed significantly to the legal profession in Hong Kong by taking up various public and community services, including membership of the Disciplinary Committee of The Law Society of Hong Kong and of the Board of Review (Inland Revenue Ordinance) Hong Kong. He is currently a Trustee of both the University of Liverpool Graduate Association (Hong Kong) Scholarship Fund and The Yu Lee Mo Fan Charitable Foundation. Dr. Yu is enthusiastic about the growth and development of young people. Over the years, he has made generous donations to institutions in Hong Kong and the Mainland, and has been very supportive of the development of Shaw College at CUHK by making generous donations to various causes including college development, scholarships, bursaries, amenities and facilities renovation, art and culture, as well as environmental sustainability. He has also served as a member of the Board of Trustees of Shaw College since 2005 to help promote the development of the College.