[date]18 May 2015[/date]
[title] CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015 – The First Alumni-initiated Event to Share Entrepreneurship Experience in Hong Kong 
All are Welcome[/title]
‘CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015’, a large scale entrepreneurship-themed event initiated by the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, will be held on 22 and 23 May 2015 on CUHK campus. It will serve as a one-stop information hub and exchange platform for CUHK students and graduates, experienced entrepreneurs from the circle of CUHK alumni and the general public at large, and it will pass on the caring culture shared by CUHK alumni from different generations. The opening ceremony on 22 May will be officiated by Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Mr. Godfrey Leung, Under-Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, HKSAR Government; and Mr. Raymond Yip, Deputy Executive Director of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council. 
Organized by the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, an endowment fund which was initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives, the event is the very first of its kind in the territory. It is supported by Hong Kong Trade Development Council, the University’s Office of Research and Knowledge Transfer Services, Center for Entrepreneurship and Centre for Innovation and Technology, together with support from 2 major CUHK alumni associations - CUHK Convocation and CUHK Federation of Alumni Associations. It will feature an opening ceremony, an exhibition, a series of seminars, and consultancy services, all under one roof. 
Members of the public are welcome to this two-day event.  Admission is free. No pre-registration is required. 
Details of ‘CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015’

Date
Time
Event
Venue

Friday, 22 May
10:00am –  4:00pm
Entrepreneurship exhibition &amp; consultancy service
G/F, Cheng Yu Tung Building

11:00am – 12:15pm
Opening ceremony
Lecture Theatre 1, Cheng Yu Tung Building

Saturday, 23 May
10:00am – 4:00pm
Entrepreneurship exhibition &amp; consultancy service
G/F, Cheng Yu Tung Building

 
Seminars:
 

10:15 – 10:45am
「創」出個未來──創業支援與錦囊
Lecture Theatre 1, Cheng Yu Tung Building

11:00am – 12:00nn
創業擂台：中大人做老闆

1:00 – 1:45pm
怎樣用35分鐘寫好一份創業計劃？

2:00 – 3:00pm
創業我有「Say」

About CUHK Alumni Torch Fund
CUHK Alumni Torch Fund was founded in 2014 through a ‘One-Day-One-Dollar’ fundraising campaign initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives and supported by the Alumni Affairs Office of CUHK. It is set up to help CUHK alumni, in particular the young ones, to strengthen their competitive advantages and exposure to entrepreneur opportunities; to assist CUHK alumni in launching ‘dreams come true’ projects for the benefit of CUHK; and to encourage CUHK alumni in developing their expertise and achieving excellence in the academic field.