[date]22 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Forum on ‘Biodiversity Conservation’
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold a forum entitled ‘Biodiversity Conservation’ at the Hong Kong Scout Centre in Tsim Sha Tsui on coming Friday (24 April).  The forum, under the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’, will bring together experts from different sectors to share knowledge and insights on biodiversity conservation.  The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.
Biodiversity is the basis for ecosystem services, and the foundation for sustainable development.  Climate change, infrastructure development and overexploitation are the predominant threats to biodiversity.  Declines in biodiversity cause disturbance to the ecological balance and major loss of ecosystem function.  Our future generations will pay a heavy price if no immediate action is taken.  At the forum, Mr Simon Chan, Senior Conservation Officer (Biodiversity) of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department, HKSAR Government, will deliver a keynote speech on local biodiversity conservation.  Dr Billy Hau, Principal Lecturer, School of Biological Sciences of The University of Hong Kong, and Mr George Jor, Founder of Grateful Green Group, will also give their insights into the topic and exchange views with the audience.
Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Biodiversity Conservation
Date: Friday, 24 April 2015 Time: 3:00 pm–5:00 pm Venue: 11/F Congregation Hall, Hong Kong Scout Centre, Tsim Sha Tsui, KowloonRegistration: www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia (first-come, first-served)
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.