[date]11 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds ‘Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015’ to Promote Green Living[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (‘Gaia’) holds the Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015 today and tomorrow (11–12 April) at Dragon Centre in Sham Shui Po.  Officiating at the opening ceremony were Prof. Anthony CHEUNG, Secretary for Transport and Housing of the HKSAR Government, Mr Leong CHEUNG, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club (HKJC), Prof. Joseph SUNG, Vice-Chancellor and President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Mr Elvis AU, Assistant Director (Nature Conservation and Infrastructure Planning) of the Environmental Protection Department of the HKSAR Government, Mr Edwin LAU, Head of Community Engagement and Partnership of the Friends of the Earth (HK), and Mr LEUNG Yat-hang, Principal of Concordia Lutheran School. 
Prof. Joseph SUNG, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, said, ‘Climate change is an imminent threat.  To promote environmental protection, cooperation of different sectors and participation of every member of the community are needed.  I invite you to check out the booths for green tips and join Gaia to promote sustainability.’
Noting that the Club was always keen to support green programmes in the community, Mr Leong CHEUNG said that apart from the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia, the Club has proactively supported and cooperated with other organisations, including Glass Bottle Recycling Project; Food Rescue and Hot Meal Assistance Programme; and the production of a TV documentary series.  He hoped the public would have a better understanding of Hong Kong’s environmental projects through today’s event, and would apply their new knowledge to build a more environmentally-friendly community.
Prof. Anthony CHEUNG, Secretary for Transport and Housing, noted that the government was very supportive of the efforts of the community to create a more sustainable future for Hong Kong.  He said, ‘Community commitment and government policies are of equal importance.  The Environment Bureau, the Development Bureau, and the Transport and Housing Bureau will continue working closely to devise effective measures to reduce energy consumption and carbon emission in Hong Kong, such as controlling the growth of private vehicles, and encouraging more use of public transport and more greening in public and private housing.’
The fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that brings green messages to the public through interactive information and game booths with the theme of ‘living a low-carbon lifestyle’.  At the panel session, Prof. Anthony CHEUNG, Mr Elvis AU and Mr Edwin LAU shared their ideas and experience on the topic of ‘Low Carbon  Blue Sky’ and exchanged views with the audience.  The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) is also showing a number of selected exhibits to raise public awareness of climate change.  Visitors can participate in quiz games by scanning the QR codes on the display panels and have a chance to win a limited-edition the MoCC eco-bag.
A number of NGOs and schools have been invited to showcase their green initiatives and achievements at the fair.  The Hong Kong Organic Resource Centre introduces organic farming, while NgYukSecondary School, an active and enthusiastic member of Gaia’s ‘Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme’, shows its students’ award-winning model in the ‘Energy Innovation Competition 2013–2014’.  Students of STFA Lee Shau Kee College deliver green messages with a song composed by their teachers, and students of CUHK share tips in reducing food waste on campus and demonstrate the making of eco-enzyme.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.