[date]29 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents 2014 Long Service Awards to 105 Members of Staff
Two Awardees Share Unforgettable Experience at CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the 2014 Long Service Awards to 105 staff members who have been with the University for 25 and 35 years. Ninety-six received the award for having worked at CUHK for 25 years and nine, for 35 years. The awards ceremony was officiated by Vice-Chancellor and President Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung.
Mr. Ip Kwong-ming
Mr. Ip Kwong-ming is currently Works Supervisor I of the Estates Management Office, and has served the University for over 35 years. He joined CUHK as an artisan in 1979, responsible for the maintenance of woodenware and setting up of event venues. One of his most unforgettable tasks was the construction of the giant stage and canopy for the University’s congregations held at the Mall. In the early years, it took more than a month to set up the venue. Mr. Ip recalled that the congregations over the years have been blessed with good weather except that, in 2012, the heavy rain posed a great challenge to his team which strived to ensure the safety of the guests and graduates.
Mr. Ning Hung-pun, Gary
Mr. Gary Ning joined the Conservation Department at the Hong Kong Museum of Art in the 1970s and is among the first generation of art conservators in Hong Kong.  He was sent to London by the Hong Kong Government to receive art conservation training at the Institute of Archaeology, University of London. In 1989, Prof. Peter Lam, the former Director of the Art Museum at CUHK, invited Mr. Ning to join the Art Museum to take charge of exhibition display and museum conservation.
Mr. Ning specializes in restoring historical lacquer wares and oil paintings. Apart from the Art Museum collections, he has also restored artifacts of other University departments including the oil portrait paintings of former Vice-Chancellors. With limited resources, he managed to enhance the exhibition facilities and the display level to an international museum standard. Five years ago, he introduced the LED lighting system to minimize the damage to artifacts caused by heat as well as saving electric power consumption. The Art Museum is the only museum in Hong Kong that uses MP3 players in guided tours. To synchronize with the social trend, Mr. Ning developed the ‘Art Museum mobile APP’ in 2011 to provide updated exhibitions and collections information to the public.
About Long Service Award
The 25-year Long Service Award, introduced in 1988, has been given to 1,084 staff members. The 35-year Long Service Award, inaugurated in 2008, has been given to 108 staff members including nine this year.