[date]22 May 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015 – The First Alumni-initiated Event to Share Entrepreneurship Experience in Hong Kong[/title]
‘CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015’, a large scale entrepreneurship-themed event initiated by the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, is held today and tomorrow (22-23 May 2015) on CUHK campus. It serves as a one-stop information hub and exchange platform for CUHK students and graduates, experienced entrepreneurs from the circle of CUHK alumni and the general public at large, and it passes on the caring culture shared by CUHK alumni from different generations. The opening ceremony today was officiated by Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Mr. Godfrey Leung, Under-Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, HKSAR Government; and Mr. Raymond Yip, Deputy Executive Director of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council. 
Organized by the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, an endowment fund which was initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives, the event is the very first of its kind in the territory. It is supported by Hong Kong Trade Development Council, the University’s Office of Research and Knowledge Transfer Services, Center for Entrepreneurship and Centre for Innovation and Technology, together with support from 2 major CUHK alumni associations - CUHK Convocation and CUHK Federation of Alumni Associations. It features an opening ceremony, an exhibition, a series of seminars, and consultancy services, all under one roof. 
About CUHK Alumni Torch Fund
CUHK Alumni Torch Fund was founded in 2014 through a ‘One-Day-One-Dollar’ fundraising campaign initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives and supported by the Alumni Affairs Office of CUHK. It is set up to help CUHK alumni, in particular the young ones, to strengthen their competitive advantages and exposure to entrepreneur opportunities; to assist CUHK alumni in launching ‘dreams come true’ projects for the benefit of CUHK; and to encourage CUHK alumni in developing their expertise and achieving excellence in the academic field.