[date]31 August 2015[/date]
[title]A Wealth of Talents from around the Globe Gathered at CUHK[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) always strives to promote the cross-fertilization of Chinese and Western cultures, and to provide a multicultural ecology on campus. Students from different cultures can learn from each other, and  broaden their international horizons. The University has admitted a wealth of talent in over 500 non-local students through the Non-JUPAS admissions scheme. All of them have a diversity of qualifications. Many of them, including top scorers of IB, SAT, Taiwan GSAT and Malaysia STPM, have achieved outstanding results in international/ locally recognized examinations.
Science Geniuses have an Affection for CUHK
At fourteen, Wong Yat is the youngest student admitted by CUHK this year. Wong Yat together with his elder brother Wong Yuk, aged 16, have been admitted to CUHK via the Non-JUPAS admissions scheme based on their outstanding academic and other achievements in the areas of science and mathematics. Wong Yat will study Physics (Enrichment Stream in Theoretical Physics) and  Wong Yuk will study Engineering.
Their parents are CUHK alumni. The two brothers joined the Programme for the Gifted and Talented, organized by CUHK Faculty of Education, when they were in primary school. They received numerous awards in local and international science competitions. Wong Yuk was the champion in competitions such as Hong Kong Physics Olympiad and the International Junior Science Olympiad. Wong Yat was also the gold award winner in various competitions such as Elite Competition of the World Class Tests, Hong Kong Olympiad in Informatics and International Physics Olmpiad. The brothers represented Hong Kong in the Asian Physics Olympiad this year and both were awarded gold medals, enabling the Hong Kong team to achieve the city’s best ever results in the competition. They were attracted by the unique college system, well developed general education and internship opportunities of CUHK. In the long run, they aspire to make achievements in their studies and research and contributions to society.
International Students Adore CUHK
Hong Kong is a metropolitan city with rich blend of cultures. Yaoyuan Hsu chose to study in Hong Kong because he is always attracted by the cultural diversity here. He attained full marks in the General Scholastic Ability Test in Taiwan this year, and was offered a scholarship from CUHK to study Global Economics and Finance. He hopes to make friends from different majors and enjoy a vibrant university life through the unique college system. He looks forward to going on exchanges with universities overseas, through which he can learn more about business policies and practices in the United States and the rest of Asia. 
Coralie Elisabeth Herrmann was born in a small town in Germany. She visited CUHK when she was on an exchange programme to Hong Kong three years ago. She was amazed by the beautiful campus and the wealth of learning opportunities offered by CUHK to the students. The strong commitment of students to the university spirit  prompted her desire to study in CUHK. She was thrilled when she learnt that she had been offered a place! She is an active and creative person who likes singing, dancing and playing sports. She expects to enjoy her university experience and to pursue studies according to her interests. She looks forward to meeting new friends and exploring her potential through joining various kinds of extra-curricular activities and clubs/societies at CUHK.
Radhika decided to move from India to Hong Kong   for its location, competitiveness and economic status in the world. She feels honoured to be awarded with a scholarship to study in the Integrated Bachelor of Business Administration programme, and she reckons CUHK will provide the best study environment in which to learn and explore. She looks forward to her perspectives being broadened through a university education, and wishes to equip herself with rich global exposures and good communication skills. She aspires to become an entrepreneur working for the benefit of the community at large after graduation.
Toh Huey Ming from Malaysia was granted a scholarship to study Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Quantitative Finance based on her attainment of full scores in the Malaysia STMP. She wishes to learn from other talents through the mutual exchange of ideas and discussion, to become independent by living in a hostel, and to enjoy the fruitful university life at CUHK over the coming years. Her goal is to be an actuary after graduation.
The non-local students admitted by CUHK this year are from 31 mainland provinces and municipalities, Macau, Taiwan, as well as countries all over the world, including Australia, Belgium, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Nepal, Portugal, Russia, Swaziland, Thailand and the  United States.