[date]25 July 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds the ‘Green Economy and Technology’ Forum[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) held a forum entitled ‘Green Economy and Technology’ at Yasumoto International Academic Park, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) on 24 July.  The forum, as a part of the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, gathered experts from different sectors to share knowledge on and insights into green economy and technology.  More than 170 participants from the public and private sectors, local schools and tertiary institutions attended the event.
Prof. Ho Kin-chung, Dean of the School of Science and Technology, The Open University of Hong Kong, was the keynote speaker.  Other guest speakers included Ms Linda Ho, Chief Executive Officer of Green Council, and Mr Angus Wong, Policy Advocacy Manager of World Green Organisation.  The forum was chaired by Prof. Johnson Chan, Research Assistant Professor of the Department of Geography and Resource Management, CUHK.
At the forum, Prof. Ho defined green economy by quoting the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as “one that results in improved human well-being and social equity, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcities”. Making reference to The China Greentech Report 2012, he noted that the market of green technology is growing steadily thanks to the launch of relevant industrial policies. In Hong Kong, as the rapid growth of environmental industry brings unprecedented opportunities to business, Prof. Ho opined that the SAR as an international city should keep strengthening its connections with research institutions and industry around the world, continue its role as an education hub and international financial centre, provide services in quality assurance and testing, and promote corporate social and environmental responsibilities.
During the Question and Answer session, participants raised questions about green economy and technology, and had a fruitful discussion with the speakers.
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the ‘Environment and Climate Change Forum Series’ to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.