[date]21 July 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Forum on ‘Green Economy and Technology’
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold a forum entitled ‘Green Economy and Technology’ on The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) campus this Friday (24 July).  The forum, under the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, will bring together experts from different sectors to share knowledge and insights on green economy and technology.  The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free.
The key to success in global business is to strike a delicate balance between economic development and environmental conservation, with the aid of technology.  As the concept of green economy continues to gain international attention, such issues as environmental governance and ecological economies have been discussed and researched at length by governments, think tanks, the academia, green groups, professionals and practitioners.  At the forum, Professor Ho Kin-chung, Dean of School of Science and Technology, The Open University of Hong Kong, will deliver a keynote speech on the interrelationship between green economy and technology.  Ms Linda Ho, Chief Executive Officer of Green Council, and Mr Angus Wong, Policy Advocacy Manager of World Green Organisation, will also offer insights into the topic and exchange views with the audience.
Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Green Economy and Technology
Date: Friday, 24 July 2015 Time: 3:00 pm–5:00 pm Venue: LT2, G/F, Yasumoto International Academic Park, CUHK, Sha Tin, NTRegistration: www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia (first-come, first-served)
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions.
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.