[date]18 May 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change Holds the Eco Tour Photo Contest 2015[/title]
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) hosted the second annual Eco Tour Photo Contest this year, to encourage the public to experience the beauty of nature along the eco tour trail and promote a green lifestyle.  The photo contest received around 240 entries and the award-winners along with some selected entries are now on display at MoCC until 31 August 2015.  The winners list can also be viewed at the following link: http://www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/mocc/photocontest 
The award presentation ceremony for the contest cum opening ceremony of the exhibition was held last Saturday (16 May).  Prof. FUNG Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, Ms Shirley FISHER, Charities Manager of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Ms CHOW Chung Ling, Honorary Advisor of the Chinese YMCA Photography Society HK, Mr Harry SIT, President of CUHK Chung Chi Photography Society, and Mrs Cecilia LAM, Programme Director of CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia, presented the awards at the ceremony. 
To coincide with the International Museum Day (IMD) 2015, MoCC organized a series of activities including a special showing of The Drama of Climate Change, as well as guided MoCC tours and eco tours.  All of them were warmly received by the public. 
Opening hours of MoCC:Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays to Saturdays: 9:30 am – 5:00 pmWednesdays, Sundays and public holidays: closed
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  The programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through a carbon reduction partnership with schools and non-governmental organizations, the organization of a forum series on climate change and environment, and the establishment of a museum on climate change. 
Opened in December 2013 and dedicated to the theme of climate change, the MoCC is the first of its kind in Hong Kong as well as in the region.  Open for free to the public, the MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mt Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Trust’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.  In addition to the regular exhibits, the MoCC also features, from time to time, special thematic exhibitions on new discoveries and developments on climate change, environmental conservation and sustainability.  More details of the MoCC can be found at www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/MoCC.