[date]27 April 2015[/date]
[title]Vice Minister of National Health and Family Planning Commission Joined CUHK as Honorary Professor
To Further Promote Development of Integrative Medicine[/title]
Western medicine focuses on effectiveness while Chinese medicine focuses on body strengthening. It is believed that combining the advantages of both approaches can provide  holistic and effective treatment to patients, giving rise to the development of integrative medicine in the past decade. The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has recently conducted a seminar on integrative medicine where Prof. Wang Guoqiang, Vice Minister of the National Health and Family Planning Commission and Commissioner of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine (SATCM), as well as over 200 government officials and experts in the field of Chinese Medicine shared their experience and ideas. In recognition of his dedication to Chinese Medicine development, Professor Wang was presented with an honorary professorship at CUHK by Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, Prof. T. F Fok, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, and Prof. Anthony Chan, Acting Dean of Faculty of Medicine.
During his welcome speech, Prof. Joseph Sung remarked, ‘With a vision to combine tradition with modernity, and to bring together China and the West, CUHK is one of the few universities to embark on Chinese medicine research and develop integrative medicine in the early years. Over the years, our accomplishment in Chinese medicine education, research and clinical work has been remarkable. We are honoured to have Prof. Wang Guoqiang to join us as honorary professor. With his extensive experience and expertise, we are confident in further promoting the development of Chinese medicine and integrative medicine, benefiting patients around the world.’
Professor Wang plays an important role in the rapid development of Chinese medicine both locally and internationally. In the past decade, Professor Wang has been dedicated to the standardization and penetration of Chinese Medicine both in China and around the globe.  Professor Wang also supports the development of integrative medicine.
Prof. Wang Guoqiang is pleased to join CUHK as honorary professor. He said, ‘Under the support and leadership of the national government, Chinese medicine education and research has been developing rapidly. Hong Kong is an ideal place to develop integrative medicine with its mix of Chinese and western cultures. I look forward to future collaborations between mainland and Hong Kong to further promote integrative medicine and carry forward this new medical approach.’
Miss Janet Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology and Chairperson of  Committee on Research and Development of Chinese Medicines supported the seminar which served as an exchange platform for experts from different backgrounds, ‘Over the years, CUHK has established strong ties with the Innovation and Technology Commission on the promotion of R&amp;D of Chinese medicines and integrative medicine. I would like to offer my hearty congratulations to Professor Wang and look forward to further strengthening our cooperation with the Mainland.’
Chinese medicine and integrative medicine has been developing rapidly in Hong Kong in terms of research, healthcare system and standardization. During the seminar, representatives from SATCM affirmed the contributions of CUHK, and pointed out the importance of effective communication between physicians of Chinese medicine and western medicine in a holistic healthcare system.
The Institute of Chinese Medicine and The Hong Kong Institute of Biotechnology Limited were established in the 80’s to conduct quantified research in Chinese medicine, including but not limited to quality control, mechanism research and clinical tests, while the latter also provides research support, procedure enhancement and product registration services to local Chinese medicine developers. CUHK launched the School of Chinese Medicine in 1998 to offer high-quality training programmes. Up to date, the School has trained over 500 professionals to meet the needs of society. The recent establishment of the territory’s first Institute of Integrative Medicine will provide a knowledge exchange and collaboration platform for experienced local and overseas medical experts to accelerate the development of integrative medicine.