[date]16 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Cocktail Reception with International, Mainland and Local Students[/title]
Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) recently hosted a cocktail reception for international, mainland and local students.  About 100 students from over 30 countries or regions, consuls and donors of non-local student scholarships were in attendance at the party, enjoying a variety of cross-cultural performances and programmes. 
Professor Sung remarked, ‘The idea of this cocktail reception is for students from different cultures and backgrounds to experience Chinese culture and heritage.  Along with that, you can have a stimulating time meeting with friends who come from different parts of the world.  The Chinese University has striven to cross-fertilize Chinese and Western academic and cultural traditions since its inception in 1963.  To date, we have forged ties with over 300 universities, research institutes, government organizations and funding agencies across 6 continents.  We have recorded continuing growth in our student exchange programmes.’ 
This year, the theme of the reception was ‘Cultural Night’.  Professor Sung deliberately hosted the reception at the Art Museum of the Institute of Chinese Studies to provide the guests and students an opportunity to experience the Chinese heritage through various exhibitions including modern Chinese paintings by well-known masters, Chinese furniture art during the Ming and Qing Dynasties, and Zisha tea pots.  The reception also featured other Chinese cultural programmes including traditional Chinese music pieces performed by New Asia College Chinese Music Society and a Chinese fan dance performed by students from the US, Canada, Europe and the mainland. 
In the 2014-15 academic year, there are over 1,200 CUHK students participating in term-time and summer overseas exchanges.  The University also receives nearly 2,000 international students coming to CUHK on short-term exchange or a full-term of 4 years.  They are coming from over 40 countries and regions including Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Macau, Malaysia, Norway, Portugal, The Netherlands, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, UK, US and mainland China. 
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?1=1&amp;id=193&amp;s=
 