[date]6 August 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Produces Mooncakes for Charity Sales for the First Time[/title]
During the Mid-Autumn festival this year, CUHK is, for the first time, producing mooncakes with “CUHK” printed on them for staff, students and alumni to purchase, starting from today till 21 August 2015.  “CUHK Mooncake” is made of low sugar white lotus seed paste with two yolks.  A box of 4 pieces will be offered at HK$280. 
As the mooncakes are produced for charity, for each box of “CUHK Mooncake” sold, CUHK will give a free mooncake to the elderly living alone in Shatin and Taipo.  Those who purchase “CUHK Mooncake” can choose to donate all of his/her purchased mooncakes to the elderly.  Profits gained from the mooncake sales, after deducting the costs, will be donated in full to support the I‧CARE Programme of the University. 
In addition, CUHK and ELCHK, Integrated Elderly Service will co-organize an event on 5th September (Saturday) to celebrate the Mid-Autumn festival with the elderly.  CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President Prof. Joseph SUNG together with the CUHK‧Care Service team will visit ELCHK, Ma On Shan District Elderly Community Centre to share the joy of the festive season.  There will be stretching exercises, singing performance and lots more.  Prof. SUNG and the volunteers will also visit the elderly living alone in Shatin and deliver “CUHK Mooncake” and a gift bag to each. 
The charity “CUHK Mooncake” is baked by Caritas La Vie, a social enterprise which provides, through its baking workshop, job and training opportunities to vulnerable groups such as ex-mentally ill persons and persons with disabilities to help them recover. 
For more details about the “CUHK Mooncake” charity sales, please click into: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/cpr/mooncake2015/ 
About the I‧CARE Programme
With the aim of promoting students' holistic development through social and civic engagements in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas countries, CUHK launched the I‧CARE Programme in 2011 to support students to take part in a range of social and civic engagement programmes. With the slogan “Aspiration through reflection; Renewal through civility”, the I‧CARE Programme is formulated on the basis of five elements of whole-person development, which the University aims to instill among its students: 
 I  = Integrity and Moral Development
C = Creativity and Intellectual Development
A = Appreciation of Life and Aesthetics Development
R = Relationships and Social Development
E = Energy and Wellness
