[date]13 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Hits Five Golds at Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) receives five Gold awards (see table below) in the Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme 2015 in the Website Stream and the Mobile Application Stream, and has been voted one of the ‘My Favourite Websites’.  The University was represented by Prof. Michael Hui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, in the award presentation ceremony which took place at the Central Government Offices today (13 April).
The recognition scheme was jointly organized by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer and the Equal Opportunities Commission to encourage web accessibility among organizations in various industries and sectors, and to showcase corporations that have demonstrated outstanding efforts in facilitating access to their websites and mobile applications. 
Commenting on the award, Professor Hui said, ‘The Chinese University is very pleased to be recipient of the Gold Award in various categories. I believe that those awards will prompt us to work harder and aim higher in efforts related to web accessibility.’ 
The award presentation ceremony was officiated by Miss Susie Ho Shuk-yee, Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development (Communications and Technology), and well attended by representatives from award winning enterprises, NGOs, educational institutions and public sector organizations. 
The Gold Award is the highest accolade in the Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme.  It is presented to organizations whose websites and mobile applications have fulfilled 24 and 18 judging criteria, respectively. These criteria include meaningfully sequenced and structured contents, clear headings and informative links, and high compatibility with assistive technologies to facilitate smooth navigation. The colour contrast of text and images, font size options and use of sign language should address the need of all users, including people with disabilities and the seniors. 
The ‘Most Favourite Websites’ is awarded to three from among all gold award winning websites in the past three years.  Members from the public, including those from various user groups, are invited by the Government to vote for their favourite websites. 
Details of the awarded websites / mobile application are as follows:
Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme - Website Stream (Gold Awards) 
The Chinese University of Hong Kongwww.cuhk.edu.hk 
University Gallerywww.cuhk.edu.hk/ugallery 
Communications and Public Relations Officewww.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk
CUTVwww.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/CUTV 
Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme - Mobile App Stream (Gold Awards) 
CUHK Mobile
Most Favourite Websites Awards 
The Chinese University of Hong Kongwww.cuhk.edu.hk