[date]27 August 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK ‘International Poets in Hong Kong’ – Coral Bracho Poetry Workshop  
NOW OPEN FOR APPLICATION[/title]
‘International Poets in Hong Kong’ organized by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited the Mexican female poet, Coral Bracho, one of the most influential poets and translators in Latin American literature, to visit Hong Kong from 21 to 29 September 2015.  A series of poetry activities including a recitation, a symposium and a sharing session with readers will be held during her stay in Hong Kong.  The event is generously supported by the Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation and co-organized by the Chinese University Press and the Commercial Press (H.K.) Limited. 
Prior to Ms. Bracho’s visit to Hong Kong, CUHK will hold a 3-day Coral Poetry Workshop for literature lovers and the general public to learn more about her works, as well as Latin American culture and literature.  The workshop will be facilitated by Prof. Cheng Yiyang, a translator of Coral Bracho’s poetry collection and a lecturer from the School of Foreign Languages at Peking University.  The workshop will be conducted in Putonghua.  Admission is free.  Interested parties can register online (http://bit.ly/1LsUUWq) before 4 September 2015 with details as follows:
Details of the Coral Bracho Poetry Workshop:

Date:
21 September 2015 (Monday)23 September 2015 (Wednesday)25 September 2015 (Friday)

Time:
7:00 p.m. – 8:30 p.m.

Venue:
G05 (LPN LT), Y.C. Liang Hall, Central Campus, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Instructor:
Prof. Cheng Yiyang

Language:
Putonghua

Reading:
Coral Bracho’s poetry collection – EN LA ENTRAÑA DEL TIEMPO, published by The CUHK Press (The first 25 applicants will get a free copy of Coral Bracho’s poetry collection.)

No. of participants:
40 (On a first-come-first-served basis)

Cost:
Free

Application:
Please complete the application form at http://bit.ly/1LsUUWq.   Successful applicants will be notified by 9 September 2015.

Enquiries:
Ms. Lam 3943-6546 / iphk.cuhk@gmail.com  

Ms. Bracho has published 9 books of poetry, including El ser que va a morir (1981), La voluntad del ámbar (1998), Ese espacio, ese jardín (2004) and Si ríe el emperador (2010).  Some of her books have been translated into other languages. 
Since September 2010, ‘International Poets in Hong Kong’ has been inviting one internationally renowned poet, half-yearly, to visit Hong Kong for a week and participate in a series of poetry events.  By extending events beyond university campuses into the community, CUHK sincerely hopes that poetry can enrich the lives of all Hongkongers, and widen the horizons of high school and college students and encourage creativity and imagination in their local environment.  A bilingual poetry collection with original texts and Chinese translation for each invited poet is also published.