[date]5 June 2015[/date]
[title]In Memory of Professor Kwok Leung[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) records with deep sadness the passing of Prof. Kwok LEUNG, Choh-Ming Li Professor of Management at the Faculty of Business Administration, on 25 May 2015.  The University is saddened by the loss of a highly esteemed teacher and scholar of the University and conveys its heartfelt condolences to the family of Professor Leung.
In memory of Professor Leung, the Faculty of Business Administration has set up a condolence corner for members of the university and the public to pay their last respects to Professor Leung.  Details are as follows:
Date:
2 to 12 June 2015 (Saturday and Sunday are excluded)
Venue:
Room 830C, 8/F, Department of Management, CUHK Business School, Cheng Yu Tung Building, No. 12 Chak Cheung Street, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong (Transport and map)
Time:
9:00am to 5:00pm
Professor Leung was a prominent scholar in the fields of both psychology and management.  His devotion to education and research earned him profound respect among his peers, colleagues and students, and promoted the academic development of the University.  Professor Leung obtained his bachelor degree from CUHK and his PhD from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.  His major research areas included justice and conflict, creativity, international management, social axioms, and cross-cultural research methods.  He published several books and over 180 academic articles.  Based on Google Scholar, his h-index is 63, and his articles have been cited over 17,500 times.  He gave keynote speeches in many international conferences and invited talks in major universities, including Peking University, University of Tokyo, Stanford University, Duke University, Sabanzi University, and University of Jena.
He was a Deputy Editor-in-Chief of Management and Organization Review, and was a Deputy Editor-In-Chief of Journal of International Business Studies, the Editor of Asian Journal of Social Psychology, and an Associate Editor of Asia Pacific Journal of Management and Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology.  He was Chair of the Research Methods Division of the Academy of Management, and President of the International Association for Cross-Cultural Psychology and Asian Association of Social Psychology.  He won the Highly Commended Award for a paper published in International Journal of Conflict Management, and the Misumi Award for a paper published in Asian Journal of Social Psychology. He was a Fellow of the Academy of International Business, Association for Psychological Science, Academy of Intercultural Research, and Hong Kong Psychological Society.