[date]10 August 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits Outstanding HKDSE Students with Multiple Talents[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) admitted, through JUPAS, 2,681 students who sat for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) examination.  99.7% of them were Band A students. 
CUHK has an impressive intake this year. Of all candidates who achieved Level 5 in three subjects or above in the HKDSE territory-wide, 32% were admitted by CUHK, including 6 students with 5 in six subjects. The programmes admitting them include Global Business Studies, Medicine (Global Physician Stream), Medicine, Pharmacy, Enrichment Stream in Theoretical Physics, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis/ Quantitative Finance and Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science.
In terms of the median admission scores of the best five subjects, the top five programmes/streams are shown in the table below.
Programme/ Streams
Score for best 5 subjects (Median)
Medicine (Global Physician Stream)
35
Global Business Studies 
33.5
Pharmacy
32
Medicine
32
Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science
32
In terms of the scores for the best five subjects of individual candidates, 6 programmes/streams at CUHK admitted candidates with a score of 35 (that is, Level 5 in 5 subjects). These programmes include Global Business Studies, Medicine (Global Physician Stream), Pharmacy, History and Enrichment Stream in Theoretical Physics.
The change in minimum University entrance requirements at CUHK this year has not affected the admission results, and the median scores in terms of the best five subjects of all candidates admitted remains the same as last year.  Also newly introduced this year is the Enrichment Stream in Theoretical Physics, which admits students for the first time. The programme proves to be very popular amongst students who have a keen interest in the discipline, and the median score in the best five subjects is 29.
The Youngest HKDSE Candidate Immerses himself in Science
At fifteen, Wong Chak Kui is the youngest HKDSE candidate territory-wide. He scored 5 or above in all 7 subjects he sat, and achieved Level 5 in four of them.  He skipped two grades in primary school and took the HKDSE two years earlier than most of his classmates. Chak Kui has a genuine passion for Science and joined the Enrichment Programme for Young Mathematics Talents organized by CUHK Department of Mathematics in summer 2012, during which he was impressed by the hospitality and enthusiasm of CUHK teachers and students. He has been admitted to the Faculty of Science to study Chemistry. He looks forward to broadening his perspectives at the university through doing research in chemistry, and participating in overseas exchange programmes.  In the long run, he aspires to making achievements in his studies and research.
Student Leader Nominated by Principal to Specialise in Mathematics
Fong Yuk Lun has been admitted to the Enrichment Mathematics programme of CUHK through the JUPAS School Principal’s Nomination Scheme.  Through persistent research over one and a half years, Yuk Lun won the prestigious Gold Award of the 2014 Hang Lung Mathematics Awards on the topic of Erdӧs-Straus Conjecture in ancient Egyptian mathematics. Since Form Three, Yuk Lun has developed a fascination with mathematics and has dedicated his time and energy to solving mathematical problems. His experience taking part in various competitions, such as the Hong Kong (China) Mathematical Olympiad, has strengthened his resolve to build a strong mathematics foundation for doing academic research. He hopes his research will benefit mankind in future. Yuk Lun was the Chairperson of the School Chinese Orchestra in his high school and had represented his school in various music competitions. His leadership was recognized and much appreciated by his school principal who nominated him for admission to CUHK. 
Admitting Largest Number of “Multi-faceted Excellence Scholarship” Recipients
HKSAR Home Affairs Bureau has launched the “Multi-faceted Excellence Scholarship” this year for the first time. Through the scholarship scheme, around 20 local undergraduate students each year are awarded full-tuition fee scholarships by the government to study a bachelor degree in recognition of their achievements in non-academic areas such as sports, arts and/or community service. Nine out of the 21 scholarship recipients this year are being admitted to CUHK, the largest number amongst all institutions. Amongst them is Wong Man Lok, who enjoys music and has mastered piano skills to express complex feelings and emotions. He has participated in many local and international piano competitions and received numerous awards including first prize awards in the Hong Kong Music Competition for Young Pianists and the Hong Kong – Asian Piano Open Competition, and a merit prize in the Osaka International Music Competition.
Chung Hoi Lam, another scholarship recipient, will join the Fine Arts programme at CUHK. She has performed outstandingly well in various arts competitions. She was the 1st runner up in the International Children Painting Competition in Hong Kong, Gold Award winner of the Annual World Children’s Picture Contest, as well as an award winner at The Small Montmartre of Bitola.
This year, 83 students were admitted to CUHK through the "School Principal's Nominations Scheme".  Through the Sports Scholarship Scheme, 15 were admitted including students with outstanding achievements in sports including athletics, tennis, volleyball, handball and basketball. 3 of these sportsmen/sportswomen are members of teams that represent Hong Kong officially while another 9 of them are from the Hong Kong Junior Squad. 