[date]6 September 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Celebrates Mid-Autumn Festival with the Elderly[/title]
To celebrate the upcoming Mid-Autumn Festival, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) co-organised the “Visiting the Elderly with CUHK Mooncake Event” with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Hong Kong’s Ma On Shan District Elderly Community Centre and Strategic CSR Network.  CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President Prof. Joseph Sung, District Officer (Shatin) Cora Ho JP, Strategic CSR Network Chairman and CUHK alumni Richard Tsang, CUHK Pro-Vice-Chancellor / Vice-President Prof. Michael Hui and Associate Vice-President Prof. Fung Tung joined 100 volunteers from the CUHK ∙ Care Service team to celebrate the festive season with the elderly.
There were many fun activities arranged for the elderly, including a singing performance, a Chinese opera performance by children, an introduction to Chinese medicinal herbs, and interactive games. During his visit to the Community Centre, Professor Sung played games and sang songs with over 100 of the elderly. After that, he led the volunteers from the CUHK ∙ Care Service team in visits to elderly people living in Ma On Shan. He visited two elderly people and delivered “CUHK Mooncake” and a gift bag to each.
Professor Sung said, “CUHK has produced mooncakes for the first time.  The campaign is to show our support to local social enterprise and our care to the elderly. Profits gained from the mooncake sales will be donated to the I ∙CARE Programme of the University, to support students taking part in a range of social and civic engagement programmes.”
Professor Sung also gave a warm reminder to the elderly. “Although CUHK Mooncake is made of low sugar white lotus seed paste with two yolks, which has relatively less sugar, still the elderly should not eat too many at one time.  As a gastrointestinal doctor, I sincerely hope that every one of us has a healthy diet.”
The CUHK ∙ Care Service team will visit the elderly living alone in Shatin and Tai Po in September, and deliver a mooncake and a gift bag to each. A total of 1,000 CUHK mooncakes will be delivered. 
CUHK, for the first time, is producing “CUHK Mooncake” for staff, students and alumni to purchase.  The charity “CUHK Mooncake” is baked by Caritas La Vie, a social enterprise which provides, through its baking workshop, job and training opportunities to vulnerable groups such as ex-mentally ill persons and persons with disabilities to help them recover. For each box of "CUHK Mooncake" sold, CUHK · Care will deliver a free mooncake to the elderly.  Those who purchase “CUHK Mooncake” can choose to donate all of his/her purchased mooncakes to the elderly. 
The gift bags delivered to the elderly are sponsored by Strategic CSR Network, a not-for-profit organisation that aims to serve underprivileged communities in Hong Kong on an ongoing basis. By leveraging Strategic Public Relations Group’s existing business and social networks, and by functioning as a one-stop platform, Strategic CSR Network is able to connect and bring together different parties, including corporations, NGOs/charities and volunteers to achieve common goals. Strategic CSR Network also welcomes reusable product donations so as to reduce solid waste.