[date]14 September 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK ‘International Poets in Hong Kong’
Distinguished Mexican Poet Coral Bracho to Visit Hong Kong
All are Welcome[/title]
The ‘International Poets in Hong Kong’ (IPHK), oorganized by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), and co-organized with The Chinese University Press (CUP) and The Commercial Press (H.K.) Limited, will be held from 21 to 26 September 2015.  
Generously sponsored by the Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation, Coral Bracho, a distinguished Mexican poet, has been invited to join poetry activities in Hong Kong. Members of the public are welcome. Admission is free. No reservations are required. Details are as follows: 
Poetry Recitation

Date:
Friday, 25 September 2015

Time:
3:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.

Venue:
Lecture Theatre 1, Esther Lee Building, Chung Chi College, CUHK

Poetry Recital:
Coral Bracho

Language:
Spanish (with Chinese subtitles)

Music Performance:
Saxophone, Shakuhachi, Hichiriki, Xiao &amp; Xun Recital by Li Hui MingElectronics by Dickson Dee

Meeting the Readers (Symposium, sharing &amp; autograph session)

Date:
Saturday, 26 September 2015

Time:
2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.

Venue:
The Commercial Press - Tsim Sha Tsui Book CentreShops B1007-1010 B1/F., Miramar Shopping Centre, Tsim Sha Tsui

Poet:
Coral Bracho

Moderator:
Prof. Cheng Yiyang(The Chinese translator of Coral Bracho’s poetry collection)

Language:
Putonghua and Spanish

For those who are interested to learn more about Ms. Bracho’s works, as well as Latin American culture and literature, CUHK will hold a 3-day Coral Poetry Workshop on 21, 23 and 25 September. All seats have been reserved during online registration earlier. 
Ms. Bracho is an internationally recognized poet, translator and scholar in literature. She has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Aguascalientes National Poetry Prize (1981), the Xavier Villaurrutia Prize (2003), the Jaime Sabines-Gatien Lapointe International Prize (2011), the Zacatecas International Prize (Quebec, 2011), a Sistema Nacional de Creadores de Arte fellowship, a John Simon Guggenheim fellowship, and a Lannan Foundation Writers Residency in Marfa, Texas.  Some of her books have been translated into other languages.  EN LA ENTRAÑA DEL TIEMPO, her bilingual poetry collection with original texts and Chinese translation has already been published by CUP in 2015 September. 
Ms. Bracho is the eighth internationally renowned poet who has been invited to visit Hong Kong since the debut of ‘International Poet in Hong Kong’, the bi-annual event, in September 2010.  By extending the poetry events beyond university campuses into the community, CUHK is dedicated to enriching the cultural lives of all Hongkongers, widening the horizons of high school and college students as well as encouraging creativity and imagination in their local environment.  For more details, please visit our Facebook Page, ‘International Poets in Hong Kong’. 
General Enquiry: Miss Helen Lam (3943-6546)                            lamhiulaam@cuhk.edu.hk                             Miss Amy Ho (3943-6548) amyho@cuhk.edu.hk