[date]12 August 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK to Hold ‘Distinguished Scholars Seminars – Sign Bilingualism: Scientific Evidence and Educational Applications’ to Address Benefits of Sign Language for Children’s Development[/title]
In recent years, the accumulation of scientific and empirical evidence locally and worldwide has shown that sign bilingualism - the use of both sign language and spoken language - is beneficial to the development of both deaf and hearing children. The Centre for Sign Linguistics and Deaf Studies (CSLDS) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will organize the ‘Distinguished Scholars Seminars – Sign Bilingualism: Scientific Evidence and Educational Applications’ on 14 and 15 August. Dr. David CORINA, University of California–Davis; Dr. Christopher KURZ, Rochester Institute of Technology; and Dr. Susan LANE-OUTLAW, Metro Deaf School in Saint Paul, Minnesota, have been invited to address how sign language, sign bilingualism and visual learning enhance development of children with or without hearing loss in practical educational contexts, with the aim of providing participants new insights on the various benefits of sign language, and to open up new possibilities for supporting children in need.
The event is sponsored by the U.S. Consulate General for Hong Kong and Macau. Prof. TANG Wai-lan Gladys, Director, Centre for Sign Linguistics and Deaf Studies, CUHK; Prof. Thomas Hun-tak LEE, Chairman, Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages, CUHK; and Mr. Tom COONEY, Acting Consul General, U.S. Consulate General for Hong Kong and Macau, will give opening remarks for the seminar on 14 August. While on 15 August, Mr. YU Bun, Chairperson, Working Group on Promotion of Sign Language, Rehabilitation Advisory Committee, Labour and Welfare Bureau, the Government of HKSAR, will share his past experience as a deaf student in Hong Kong. There will be a briefing about sign bilingual education in Hong Kong on both days.
Targeted at different audiences, the seminars are divided into two days with different topics. The first day is arranged for teachers and professionals and the other day is arranged for parents, the deaf and the general public. The topics are as follows:
Friday, 14 August 2015

Seminar 1
Deafness, Signed Languages and Cochlear Implants
Dr. David Corina

Seminar 2
Optimizing conceptual understanding and literacy development of deaf students by using sign language and advanced technology
Dr. Christopher Kurz
Dr. Susan Lane-Outlaw

Saturday, 15 August 2015

Seminar 3
Sign Languages and Bilingualism: Scientific Developments and Emerging Opportunities
Dr. David Corina

Seminar 4
How visual language and visual learning support early language and cognitive development
Dr. Christopher Kurz
Dr. Susan Lane-Outlaw

The event will be conducted in English and American Sign Language, and interpretation in Hong Kong Sign Language and Putonghua will be provided on 14 August, while on 15 August interpretation in Hong Kong Sign Language and Cantonese will be provided.  Interested parties please make a reservation at 3943 4718.  For details, please visit the website of CSLDS: www.cslds.org/v3/academic.php?type=oc&amp;id=44
About Centre for Sign Linguistics and Deaf Studies, CUHK
Established in 2003, the Centre for Sign Linguistics and Deaf Studies (CSLDS) at The Chinese University of Hong Kong is the only institution in Asia that offers research and professional training in sign linguistics and deaf education for university students, deaf adults, and professionals like speech therapists, audiologists, and social workers. Nowadays, it is regarded internationally as the hub for sign linguistics and deaf education research in the Asia-Pacific region.