[date]1 October 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Delivers over 1,000 Mooncakes to the Elderly[/title]
CUHK mooncakes, introduced by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) for the first time this year with 'CUHK' printed on them, have received an overwhelming response from CUHK staff, alumni and students.  More than 600 boxes were finally sold.  For each box sold, a free mooncake was delivered by the CUHK∙Care service team to the elderly in Shatin and Tai Po.  Many of those who purchased the CUHK Mooncake donated all their purchased mooncakes to the elderly.  As a result, more than 1,000 pieces of CUHK Mooncake were delivered to the elderly.  In addition, profit gained from the mooncake sales, which amounted to over HK$50,000, was all donated to support the I∙CARE Programme of CUHK.
The production of the CUHK Mooncake has multiple meanings.  It supports local social enterprises, shows concerns over the elderly and raises fund for the I‧CARE Programme of CUHK.  The charity CUHK Mooncake is baked by Caritas La Vie, a social enterprise which provides, through its baking workshop, job and training opportunities to vulnerable groups such as ex-mentally ill persons and persons with disabilities to help them recover.
The CUHK‧Care service team was set up in 2013.  The volunteers comprise CUHK academic staff and alumni.  The 'Visiting the Elderly with CUHK Mooncake Event' is supported by Ma On Shan District Elderly Community Centre, Salvation Army Taipo Multi-service Centres, and Strategic CSR Network.  Over 200 volunteers visited and delivered the CUHK Mooncake to the elderly living alone in Kam Tai Court, Kam Ying Court, Saddle Ridge Garden and Heng On Estate in Ma On Shan, as well as Kwong Fuk Estate, Fu Shin Estate and Tai Wo Estate in Tai Po.
The event shows CUHK people’s unity and their efforts to serve the community.  The I‧CARE Programme of CUHK, which will receive the profits of the mooncakes sales as a subsidy, is a fully integrated project, which aims to promote students' holistic development through social and civic engagements, and to facilitate their initiatives in community services.  The funds raised in this event will be used to facilitate the personal growth of students, and to nurture young elites who are willing to commit to society.
 