[date]2 April 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold ‘Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015’ to Promote Green Living
All are Welcome[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (‘Gaia’) will hold the Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015 on 11 and 12 April (Saturday and Sunday) at Dragon Centre in Sham Shui Po.  The fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that brings green messages to the public through interactive information and fun games.  Exhibits of the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) will also be introduced in the fair.  All members of the public are welcome.  Admission is free. 
The opening of the Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015 will be held on 11 April (Saturday).  Prof. Anthony CHEUNG, Secretary for Transport and Housing of the HKSAR Government, Mr Leong CHEUNG, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Prof. Joseph SUNG, Vice-Chancellor and President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Mr Elvis AU, Assistant Director (Nature Conservation and Infrastructure Planning) of Environmental Protection Department of the HKSAR Government, Mr Edwin LAU, Head of Community Engagement and Partnership of the Friends of the Earth (HK), and Mr LEUNG Yat-hang, Principal of Concordia Lutheran School, will officiate at the opening ceremony.  At the sharing session, Prof. Anthony Cheung, Mr Elvis Au and Mr Edwin Lau will share their ideas and experience on the topic of ‘Low Carbon  Blue Sky’ and exchange views with the audience. 
A number of NGOs and schools have also been invited to showcase their green initiatives and achievements at the fair.  The Hong Kong Organic Resource Centre will introduce organic farming, while NgYukSecondary School, an active and enthusiastic member of Gaia’s ‘Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme’, will show its students’ award-winning model competing in the ‘Energy Innovation Competition 2013–2014’.  Students of STFA Lee Shau Kee College will deliver green messages with a song composed by their teachers, and students of CUHK will share tips in reducing food waste on campus and demonstrate the making of eco-enzyme. 
Also available at the fair are interactive game booths of the theme “living a low-carbon lifestyle”.  By introducing selected exhibits of the museum, the MoCC roadshow aims to raise public awareness of climate change.  Visitors can also participate in a quiz by scanning the QR codes on the display panels and have a chance to win a limited-edition MoCC eco-bag. 
Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2015Date:   11–12 April 2015 (Saturday &amp; Sunday)Time:   1:30 pm – 5:00 pm (Saturday)            11:00 am – 5:00 pm (Sunday)Venue: Dragon Centre, 37K Yen Chow Street, Sham Shui Po, Kowloon 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.