[date]17 September 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Provides Comfortable and Hygienic Nursing Rooms for Breastfeeding Mothers[/title]
Four nursing rooms set up by The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be in full operations by late September.  Located at Chung Chi College, United College, S.H. Ho College and Pommerenke Student Centre, the nursing rooms provide a private, furnished space with an electrical socket for connecting breastmilk pumps and a wash basin.
A Task Force on Women and Family-Friendly Policies was set up by CUHK in May 2014 to promote a working environment that is responsive to the needs of female staff and staff with family responsibilities. Co-convenors of the Task Force are Pro-Vice-Chancellors Prof. Fanny M.C. Cheung and Prof. Fok Tai-fai.  Along with setting up nursing rooms, a roundtable discussion was also held on the topic of women’s leadership in higher education. By holding gatherings and conducting surveys from time to time, the Task Force aims to understand the staff’s special needs at work and help to enforce more women and family-friendly policies in the University.  For example, a professor who is subject to a review for substantiation of appointment can request an extension of the time limit by one year on grounds of maternity.  In addition, lactation breaks are offered to lactating staff.  They can either have two lactation breaks each for up to 30 minutes during normal working  hours, or have flexible working hours which means that they can report for duty 30 minutes later in the morning and/or be granted an extra 30 minutes for lunch. 
Currently, females contribute around 57% of CUHK’s workforce.  35% of teaching staff, 52% of research staff and 66% of administrative and supportive staff are females.  Females are playing an increasingly important role and function in higher education. 
Professor Cheung said, “As a caring university, CUHK has been implementing various family-friendly measures to cater to the needs of our staff.   Setting up nursing rooms on the campus enables breastfeeding mothers to give milk in a private, comfortable and hygienic place.  This arrangement is welcomed by our staff.  We believe that the introduction of measures that cater to the family needs of female staff can help build a supportive environment and enhance commitment to work.  The Task Force on Women and Family-Friendly Policies will continue to introduce different measures to meet different needs of our staff.” 
CUHK is supportive of breastfeeding.  CUHK was among the 30 organizations which pledged to provide a breastfeeding-friendly environment to staff at the “Say Yes to Breastfeeding” community support campaign launched by the Hong Kong Committee for UNICEF, the Food and Health Bureau and the Department of Health. 
The website of the Task Force is: www.wffp.cuhk.edu.hk.  Starting from November, CUHK staff can book the nursing rooms via the online platform. 