[date]23 October 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Forum on 'Design for Sustainability (D4S)'
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia will hold a forum entitled ‘Design for Sustainability (D4S)’ at the City Gallery in Central this Friday (30 October).  The forum, under the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, will bring together experts from the design industry to share knowledge on and insights into D4S.  The forum will be conducted in Cantonese.  Members of the public are welcome and admission is free. 
Integrating the concept of D4S into the design process is one of the key factors in achieving sustainable development of the consumer product industry.  Applying sustainability criteria throughout the design and production process can minimise the impact on the environment, extend the product life cycle and also improve social benefits, thereby creating win-win solutions for the environment, the economy and society.  At the forum, Mr Benny Leong, Assistant Professor of School of Design, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, will deliver a keynote speech on the concept of D4S, and the current trends and practice in the integration of sustainable strategies in the design process.  Ms Kay Chan, Founder and Product Designer of KaCaMa Design Lab, Mr Kevin Cheung, Upcycling Product Designer of kevin cheung design, and Ms Kay Liu, Education Manager of Redress, will also offer insights into the topic and exchange views with the audience. 
Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Design for Sustainability (D4S)
Date: Friday, 30 October 2015Time: 3:00 pm–5:00 pmVenue: Multi-purpose Hall, City Gallery, 3 Edinburgh Place, CentralRegistration: www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia (first-come, first-served) 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
In order to draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series to invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public to look into different perspectives of environmental challenges and impacts of climate change, and to develop possible solutions. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public.  The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.