[date]15 November 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK CW Chu College Celebrates Founders’ Day and Naming Ceremony of Marina Tse Chu Building 
A Milestone as the College Becomes Full-fledged[/title]
CW Chu College, one of the five new colleges of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) established in 2007, celebrated its Founders’ Day and Naming Ceremony of the Marina Tse Chu Building on 12 November. The North Block of the College campus was named after the late Mrs Marina Tse Chu, the beloved wife of Mr David Chu, Founder and Chairman of The Solar Trust and Chairman of the College Committee of Overseers, in recognition of the continuous support and magnanimous contributions to the development of the College by the Chu family and in memory of the late Mrs Marina Chu. Officiating at the Naming Ceremony were Mr David Chu and Prof Joseph JY Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK. Over 70 members from the Chu family and the Tse family, benefactors, friends, mentors, Chu Scholars, College Fellows, teachers, staff and students attended the Ceremony and shared the joy of the College. 
In his welcoming remarks, Prof Kenneth Young, the College Master, highlighted that a milestone had been reached as the College developed into a full-fledged community this year. He expressed deep gratitude to benefactors, teachers and friends for guiding the College towards its educational goals, and encouraged students to follow the footsteps of the late Dr CW Chu and Mr David Chu to strive for excellence and contribute to society. 
In his address at the Ceremony, Mr David Chu expressed his pleasure at witnessing the joint efforts of teachers and the administrative team in bringing the College to fruition. He applauded the College’s dedication to fostering a close-knit community and encouraged members of the College to fulfill its mission of giving the best learning experience to students. 
On behalf of CUHK, Prof Joseph JY Sung expressed his deepest gratitude to Mr David Chu, the CW Chu Foundation and The Solar Trust for their relentless support to the University for the establishment of CW Chu College, and his joy in seeing the formation of a diverse and thriving community under the leadership of the chairman and members of the Committee of Overseers. 
The Marina Tse Chu Building is a key component of the CW Chu College Campus which comprises hostel rooms and many other facilities, including a Multi-Purpose Hall, a tree-laced outdoor garden deck (the Lanson Terrace), double volume lounges, a music room, a fitness room and other common areas, for College students and its affiliated members. The simple, modern and thoughtful design of the building not only provides an ideal living and study environment for its students, but also enhances communal interactions which are conducive to fostering college spirit and coherence. This comfortable and cozy College campus has recently been bestowed a Certificate of Excellence in Best Institutional/ Public Space under the Architecture (Professional) category of the Architecture &amp; Design Awards Asia-Pacific Trophy Awards 2015; it attained the ‘Platinum’ rating under the ‘Building Environmental Assessment Method (BEAM) for New Buildings’ in April 2015 for its outstanding green building features; it was also shortlisted by the Jury Panel of the Hong Kong Institute of Architects (HKIA) Awards 2014. 
Mr David Chu and his family have been active and staunch supporters of CW Chu College since its establishment. With the generous donations from the CW Chu Foundation and The Solar Trust, the College has been able to establish a variety of scholarships to recognize academic achievements of outstanding young scholars; and to offer financial assistance to needy students and develop educational programmes of various natures in the past few years. The benevolence and unstinting support of the Chu family to the College, and their immense contributions to nurturing future leaders for the society are deeply appreciated and respected.
Website of CW Chu Collegehttp://www.cwchu.cuhk.edu.hk/en-gb