[date]13 December 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host International Symposium on Psycholinguistics of Second Language Acquisition and Bilingualism[/title]
The International Symposium on Psycholinguistics of Second Language Acquisition and Bilingualism will be held on 18 December 2015 on CUHK Shatin campus and on 19 December at CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute in Shenzhen. The symposium is jointly organised by the Department of English, the Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages, and the Childhood Bilingualism Research Centre at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), and CUHK-Peking University-University System of Taiwan Joint Research Centre for Language and Human Complexity.
The symposium aims at bringing together scholars from the United States, Europe, mainland China, and Hong Kong in the fields of second language acquisition (SLA) and bilingualism to exchange research findings from a psycholinguistic perspective. Members of the language, linguistics and education sectors and the public are welcome to attend. Admission is free.  Please register online at: www.cuhk.edu.hk/lin/conference/symposium2015.
As a bilingual and multicultural, cosmopolitan city with people of different languages coming into contact, Hong Kong’s competitive edge lies in nurturing those with bilingual talents who can succeed in acquiring two or more languages. Research in the psycholinguistics of second language acquisition and bilingualism from the international community will benefit language professionals, educators and practitioners in the local and regional community. The symposium offers a platform for scholars, practitioners and professionals to engage in academic exchange on current issues in second language acquisition and bilingualism that are of topical interest to the community. 
The major themes of the symposium include language emergence, language and cognitive development, bilingual education, individual differences, classroom language instruction, technology-supported learning, and mobile learning.  Six internationally renowned scholars are invited to deliver keynote speeches.  They are:  Brian MacWhinney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA; Kees de Bot and Marjolijn Verspoor, University of Groningen, the Netherlands; Yasuhiro Shirai, Case Western Reserve University, USA; Yanping Dong, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, China; and Yinglin Ji, Shenzhen University, China. A number of scholars from the local community are also invited to give speeches, with topics ranging from early childhood bilingual development to adult second and foreign language learning. 
Details of the symposium are as follows:
Date:
18-19 December 2015 (Friday and Saturday)
Time &amp; Venue:
18 December:Morning sessions (8:30 a.m. - 12:15 p.m.):Lecture Theatre 7, Lee Shau Kee Building, CUHK, Shatin, HKAfternoon sessions (2:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.):Swire Hall 1, Fung King Hey Building, CUHK, Shatin, HK19 December:(9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.):Room 408, CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen
Language:
English
Registration:
www.cuhk.edu.hk/lin/conference/symposium2015
Enquiries:
Prof. Helen Zhao, Department of English, CUHK (helenz@cuhk.edu.hk)Prof.Yanhui Zhang, Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages, CUHK (yhzhang@cuhk.edu.hk) 
