[date]15 December 2015[/date]
[title]The CUHK Library Presents Exhibition on Philippine History
The Story of the Making of The Philippines - in Maps and Flags[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Library is presenting ‘The Story of the Making of The Philippines - in Maps and Flags’, an exhibition in association with the Philippine Consulate of the HKSAR and the CUHK Department of History. 
The opening ceremony was held recently and the officiating guests included the Honorable Bernardita Catalla, Consul-General of the Philippines in the HKSAR; Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Mrs. Nelly Lichauco Fung; Prof. Yip Hon-ming, Chairperson of the Department of History; and Ms. Louise Jones, the University Librarian.  As part of the ceremony, Ms. Louise Jones accepted books on the modern history of the Philippines generously donated by the Philippines Consulate General.  
Some of the exhibits are provided by the Consulate General and some by Prof. Ian Morley of CUHK Department of History and they demonstrate a narrative on the evolution of the Philippine flag, and maps dating from 1628 to 1945. To encourage students and members of the public to have a better understanding of the history of Philippines, the exhibition presents a display dedicated to Jose Rizal, the Philippine national hero, and displays of urban plans from the American colonial period.  The exhibition also provides visitors with an interactive touchscreen TV display to encourage active learning.  In January 2016, Mrs. Nelly Fung will be giving an in-depth presentation on the history of the Philippines at the University Library.  A walking tour will also be arranged to introduce the close historical relationship between the Philippines and Hong Kong. 
Along with maps arranged on the themes of Spanish colonial history, the Spanish-American War and the Philippine-American War, the American colonial period, urban planning, and World War II, there is a wide selection of other materials on display to supplement the cartographic sources. There are swords from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and contemporary photographs, magazines and books connected to events in Philippine history. Through the exhibition, the University Library hopes to arouse student and public interest in the history of the Philippines, and the relationship through time between Philippine and Hong Kong society. 
The exhibition is open to the public with details as follows:Exhibition period: 8.12.2015 – 31.1.2016 (Closed on public holidays)Venue: Lobby Area, Li Dak Sum Yip Yio Chin Building (University Library Extension), CUHK