[date]9 November 2015[/date]
[title]Korean Cultural Festival Promotes Korean Culture on Campus[/title]
The Korean Cultural Festival (the Festival), organized by the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to comprehensively promote Korean culture and facilitate inter-cultural interaction on campus, was successfully held from 27 October to 5 November 2015. 
The Festival presented a host of activities including an opening ceremony, a K-food Party, a kimchi making workshop, a Korean style makeup class and a cultural talk. The opening ceremony was officiated by Prof. T.F. Fok, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Mr. Lee Heon, Deputy Consul-General of the Republic of Korea in Hong Kong and Mr. Lee Seung Hoon, Branch Director of Korea Agro Fisheries &amp; Food Trade Corporation (aT Center). At the ceremony, Queen, a Korean female music band, brought the house down with their impeccable blend of modern music and traditional Korean music.  
Kim Yoonbin, president of The Chinese University Korean Student Association (CUKSA), felt happy and grateful for the opportunity to be part of the festival. ‘Participating in this festival is significant to us because it was a great way to promote our culture to the CUHK community. I also think it is important to involve local and non-local students in the same event as it can facilitate cultural integration and mutual understanding. I look forward to more opportunities like this in the future.’ 
The K-food party - Experiencing Korean culture with different senses 
The K-food party was co-organized by OSA and aT Center. It opened with booths showcasing traditional and popular Korean food which allowed visitors to get a free and generous food trial of each variety, such as fish cakes, fried rice cakes, dumplings, instant cup noodles, ice lollies and potato chips. 
Besides the food tasting, the festivity was enriched by fun games and lively K-pop dances. During the three-day party, the main campus was a hive of activity, buzzing with a load of students and staff enjoying tasty food and immersing themselves in Korean music. 
Korean music night – Korean students in Hong Kong danced together 
Hosted by CUKSA, the Korean music night was a sparkling string of Korean students’ dance, singing and band performances, which won rounds of applause from the audience. The Korean students from other universities in Hong Kong were also invited to perform, which enhanced communication among different institutions.  
A Kimchi making workshop and Korean style makeup class
CUKSA also led a hands-on kimchi making workshop. In the workshop, not only did the participants try their hand at making this signature Korean dish, but they also got to know about its cultural origins. 
Another student association, the CUHK Korean Cultural Society formed by local students who are Korean culture enthusiasts, was also actively involved in the festival.  The society set up a booth to introduce traditional Korean games. It also conducted a Korean style makeup class to teach the participants practical skills in how to look Korean and glamorous. 
At the end of the Festival, OSA organized the Cultural Talk and invited Mr. Steve Chung, Assistant Lecturer of B.S.Sc in Global Studies, and Miss Sue Chang, a Chinese-Korean and a Korea tourism ambassador, shared with the audience their observations and interesting stories on this topic. 
To learn more about the Korean Cultural Festival, please visit www.facebook.com/CUHKCulturalEncounters. 
Supporting units:CUHK Korean Cultural SocietyThe Chinese University Korean Student Association 