[date]19 November 2015[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong Holds 78th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) held its 78th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees (Congregation) today (19 November). Prof. Joseph J.Y. Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President, presided over the congregation and conferred all Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees. He also officiated at the Inauguration of the Choh-Ming Li Professorships and presented awards to 27 outstanding teachers and researchers in recognition of their achievements. 
Inauguration of the Choh-Ming Li Professorships 
At the Congregation, Professor Sung officiated at the installation of four outstanding professors as the Choh-Ming Li Professors.  They have been recognized for their remarkable performance in teaching and research and their outstanding contributions to the Faculty and University.  Established in 2013, this professorship was named after the late Dr. Choh-Ming Li, a distinguished scholar and the founding Vice-Chancellor of CUHK who laid the solid foundation of the University in its early years.  The Choh-Ming Li Professors will be provided with funds to support their academic and research pursuits during the appointment term of five years.  They are: 
Prof. Hong Ying-yi       
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Marketing
Prof. Cheng Chun-yiu Jack       
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Orthopaedics and Traumatology
Prof. Shao Qiman       
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Statistics
Prof. Yu Chai-mei Jimmy       
Choh-Ming Li Professor of Chemistry
University Education Award 2015 
The University instituted the University Education Award in 2011-12 to honour academics for outstanding commitment to the promotion of teaching excellence. Recipients of the award are commended for their contributions to enhancing the student learning experience through curriculum design/development, for scholarship in teaching and learning, and for their adoption of learner-centred approaches. The selection panel of the university-wide education award comprises the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education), Associate Deans (Education) of the eight Faculties and the Director of University General Education. The awardees of the University Education Award 2015 were Prof. Stephen Hall, Faculty of Law; and Prof. Au Kwok-keung Thomas, Faculty of Science. 
Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award 2014 
The Vice-Chancellor's Exemplary Teaching Award has been given annually since 1999 by the Vice-Chancellor to exemplary teachers nominated by the Dean of each Faculty in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year, nine awardees were presented with this prestigious award: Dr. Leung Tak-wah, Faculty of Arts; Dr. Lai Hon-weng John, Faculty of Business Administration; Miss Cheung Sin-ting Juanita, Faculty of Education; Prof. Lu Yi-chun, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Peter Rhodes, Faculty of Law; Prof. Yu Sau-fung Doris, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Tai Pui-kuen Amos, Faculty of Science; Ms. Chan Yuen-man, Faculty of Social Science; and Prof. Gordon Clark Mathews, General Education. A total of 120 outstanding educators have been given the award since 1999, ten of whom received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance. 
Young Researcher Award 2014 and Postgraduate Research Output Award 2014 
The Young Researcher Award and the Postgraduate Research Output Award were established in 2002 to recognize the research accomplishments of young faculty members and to encourage quality research. The Young Researcher Award is open to all eligible full-time teachers at Assistant Professor rank or above and below the age of 45. The Postgraduate Research Output Award is open to all eligible full-time or part-time postgraduate students of the University. The Dean of each Faculty is invited every year to nominate, for each award, one member who has produced the best research output. The Research Committee considers nominations received and recommends successful candidates for approval by the Administrative and Planning Committee. 
Recipients of the Young Researcher Award 2014 were Prof. Michael O’Sullivan, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Yang Yong George, Faculty of Business Administration; Prof. Gu Mingyue Michelle, Faculty of Education; Prof. Huang Jianwei, Faculty of Engineering; Prof. Ip Chi-yeung Eric, Faculty of Law; Prof. Cheng Sze-lok Alfred, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Xu Lei, Faculty of Science; and Prof. Xu Yuan, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and HK$100,000 in the form of a research grant. 
Recipients of the Postgraduate Research Output Award 2014 were Mr. Ye Yangxi, Faculty of Arts; Prof. Leung Chun-yip Jerrel, Faculty of Business Administration; Ms. Huang Yanli, Faculty of Education; Dr. Wu Xiaoxiao, Faculty of Engineering; Mr. Jędrzej Górski, Faculty of Law; Dr. Yu Cheuk-yin Jandy, Faculty of Medicine; Prof. Quan Yangjian, Faculty of Science; and Dr. Yuan Chao, Faculty of Social Science. The recipients each received a trophy, a certificate and a prize of HK$25,000 in cash. 
Master’s and Bachelor’s Degree Graduates in 2015 
A total of 6,167 Master’s degrees and 3,732 Bachelor’s degrees were conferred at the congregation. Among the latter were 530 Bachelor of Arts, 648 Bachelor of Business Administration (including one graduate who was simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree), 48 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education, 48 Bachelor of Education, 442 Bachelor of Engineering, 72 Bachelor of Laws, 25 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 163 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery, 240 Bachelor of Nursing, 67 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 803 Bachelor of Science (including eight graduates who were simultaneously awarded a Bachelor of Engineering degree for a Double Degree Programme, as well as the first batch of 20 Bachelor of Science in Community Health Practice, a two-year full-time undergraduate programme for associate degree / high diploma holders), and 598 Bachelor of Social Science degrees.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=204&amp;t=seventy-eighth-congregation-for-the-conferment-of-degrees&amp;s=
 