[date]21 February 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Establishes Centre for eLearning Innovation and Technology (ELITE)[/title]
To promote the development of eLearning, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has established the Centre for eLearning Innovation and Technology (ELITE). The opening ceremony of ELITE was held recently. Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President; Prof. Benjamin Wah, Provost; Prof. Isabella Poon Wai Yin, Pro-Vice-Chancellor; Prof. Cecilia Chun, Director of Centre for Learning Enhancement And Research  (CLEAR) ; and Prof. Irwin King, Associate Dean (Education) of the Faculty of Engineering and Principal Investigator of the Knowledge and Education Exchange Platform Project (KEEP) officiated at the ceremony. 
With the advance of technology development, eLearning can break through the barriers of traditional learning and stimulate the interaction between teachers and students. The establishment of ELITE aims to provide professional facilities and technical supports for teachers to produce courseware and teaching materials, and further improve the teaching quality and learning experience in CUHK. 
ELITE is equipped with two studios and a multi-purpose workstation area. The first studio provides a sound-proof environment and computers equipped with high quality webcams and pressure-sensitive monitors. Teachers can record their teaching and present their teaching notes on the monitor simultaneously. The second studio is equipped with a Chroma-key background that can switch sources instantly to save time in the post-production compositing process, allowing teachers to produce teaching videos with different filming scenarios. The multi-purpose open area offers a space for users to do courseware preparation and post-production. The Media Production Team from ELITE also provides technical supports, training and consultations for teachers. In the long term, ELITE will strive to assist teachers to apply multimedia courseware and implement Micro-Module, Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and other eLearning initiatives of CUHK.
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, delivered the welcoming address. He remarked, ‘the set-up of ELITE testifies to the University’s determination to advance and to support quality teaching and learning through technologies. ELITE provides a space where teachers can meet and share experience in eLearning initiatives, where they can get supports and services from our technical staff and facilities.’
ELearning is a major trend for the future. CUHK has attained a leading position in the development of eLearning. KEEP, the first one-stop cloud-based eLearning platform in Hong Kong, is an initiative developed by CUHK in collaboration with seven partner institutions in Hong Kong. The partner institutions can utilize the network technology and resources to enhance education quality. At the opening ceremony, Prof. Irwin King, Associate Dean (Education) of the Faculty of Engineering and Principal Investigator of KEEP introduced the platform. KEEP embodies different online learning tools, applications and education resources to develop a global eLearning platform.
For more information about ELITE, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/clear/elite/
For more information about KEEP, please visit: http://keep.edu.hk