[date]11 December 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK and CPU to Host Academia International Conference on Hong Kong and the World under the Belt and Road Initiative
Plenary Session Open for Registration[/title]
An academia international conference to explore chances and challenges arising out of the Belt and Road Initiative will be held on 17 and 18 December 2015 at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).  It is co-organised by the Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies (HKIAPS) of CUHK and the Central Policy Unit (CPU) of The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Government.
On the first morning of the conference, a plenary session will be opened by Mr. John Tsang, Financial Secretary of the HKSAR Government, and Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK.  Three keynote speeches by internationally renowned scholars will follow.  Members of the public are welcome to attend the plenary session.  Admission is free. For details and registration, please see: www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkiaps/bri_conference2015.
This two-day international conference aims to provide an international platform for scholars, policy makers, think tanks, and other stakeholders from around 30 countries in the Belt and Road regions to share knowledge and experiences, and promote collaboration.  Never before have so many participants from these areas been brought together.  Through this high-level academia conference, it is anticipated that potential chances and challenges coming from the Belt and Road Initiative will be evaluated. Research networks will be forged as a result and pave the way for future research collaboration and, more importantly, economic, social, cultural and academic exchanges.
Details of the plenary session are as follows:
Date: Thursday, 17 December 2015Time: 9:00am - 12:15pmVenue: Lecture Theatre 1, Cheng Yu Tung Building, CUHK
Welcome MessagesMr. John Tsang, Financial Secretary of the HKSAR GovernmentProf. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK
Keynote Speeches
 
Speakers
Titles
1.
Prof. Lawrence Lau, Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics, CUHK
Recent Developments in the Chinese Economy
2.
Dr. Peter Frankopan, Director, Oxford Centre for Byzantine Research, University of Oxford
The Belt and Road Initiative: Connections from the Past, Opportunities for the Future
3.
The Honourable Mushahid Hussain Sayed, Chairman, Pakistan-China Institute
China-Pakistan Economic Corridor as the Centrepiece of the Belt and Road Initiative: Prospects and Potential
Attachments:Programme of the conferenceBrief biography of the keynote speakers