[date]9 December 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Dr. Michael R. Lyu conferred ACM Fellowship 2015 [/title]
Dr. Michael Rung-Tsong Lyu, a Professor of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), has been elected Fellow by The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) - an authoritative international engineering organization - for his remarkable contributions to the theory and practice of software reliability engineering.  This year, 42 are named ACM Fellows worldwide and Dr. Lyu is the only one from Hong Kong.  ACM fellowship is the organization’s most prestigious membership grade which only the top 1% of its members fulfills the strict criteria to receive. 
Since the establishment of the ACM Fellows programme in 1993, only a few Hong Kong scholars have received the honor, all of them top computer scientists. With Dr. Lyu newly elected, the total number of ACM Fellows in CUHK has risen to 4.  The other three ACM Fellows are Prof. Benjamin Wah, CUHK Provost; Prof. Andrew Yao, CUHK Distinguished Professor-at-Large and winner of the prominent A.M. Turing Award; and Prof. John Lui, Associate Dean in Research, Faculty of Engineering, and the Choh-Ming Li Professor of Computer Science &amp; Engineering at CUHK. 
“I am truly honored to have received this prestigious fellowship from ACM,” Dr. Lyu said. “Having worked in CUHK for almost 18 years, I am grateful for the support from my colleagues and the University.  In the years ahead, I will continue to advance software reliability engineering techniques for enabling correct functionality of the automatic systems in the daily life of our modern society.” 
Dr. Lyu is an international expert in the area of software reliability engineering and software fault tolerance.  His research interests lie in software engineering, dependable computing, distributed systems, cloud computing, services computing, big data analytics, and machine learning. He has participated in more than 30 industrial projects in these areas, and helped to develop many commercial systems and software tools.  In addition, Dr. Lyu has published over 480 refereed journal and conference papers in his research areas. He also co-edited two books on software reliability, which have received enthusiastic responses from both academia and industry. Dr. Lyu was elected Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2004 and Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in 2007. He was also named Croucher Senior Research Fellow in 2008 and IEEE Reliability Society Engineer of the Year in 2010.About ACM
ACM is the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society uniting the world's computing educators, researchers and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources and address the field's challenges. ACM strengthens the profession's collective voice through strong leadership, promotion of the highest standards, and recognition of technical excellence. ACM supports the professional growth of its members by providing opportunities for life-long learning, career development, and professional networking.