[date]30 October 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Exhibits Chinese Jades from the Neolithic to the Qing[/title]
The Art Museum of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presents the exhibition ‘Restrained Lustre: Chinese Jades from the Cissy and Robert Tang Collection’ from 28 November 2015 to 28 February 2016. The selection of 109 Chinese jades from the Cissy and Robert Tang collection, spanning from Neolithic times to the late Qing period, focuses especially upon personal ornaments, human-like sculptures and literati accoutrements. Admission is free. Members of the public are welcome to visit the exhibition. 
The special preview and opening ceremony of the exhibition was held today (30 Oct). The officiating guests included The Honourable Mr. Justice Robert TANG and Mrs. Cissy TANG; Prof. Benjamin W. WAH, Provost of CUHK; Mr. Christopher MOK, Chairman, Advisory Committee, Art Museum, CUHK; Prof. LEUNG Yuen-sang, Director, Institute of Chinese Studies, CUHK; Prof. ZHANG Wei, Researcher of the Shanghai Museum; Prof. Josh YIU, Acting Director, Art Museum, CUHK; and Prof. XU Xiaodong, Associate Director, Art Museum, CUHK. 
This special exhibition not only highlights the collector’s taste and preference for Chinese ancient jades, but also illustrates a vivid relationship between jade and humans who used it to express their spiritual beliefs, social values and personal sentiments over thousands of years. The exhibits are showcased alongside Chinese furniture, paintings and calligraphy from the same collection, attempting to evoke a quiet and contemplative space in which traditional Chinese literati enjoy their acquisitions alone or with like-minded friends. 
Details of the exhibition are as follows: 

Special Preview:
30 October 2015

Exhibition Period:
28 November 2015 to 28 February 2016

Exhibition Venue:
Gallery II, Art Museum, Institute of Chinese Studies, CUHK

Opening Hours:
Mondays to Wednesdays,  Fridays and Saturdays: 10:00am-5:00pmSundays and Public Holidays: 1:00pm-5:00pm

Closed:
Thursdays, Christmas Holidays, New Year Holidays, Lunar New Year Holidays

Enquiries:
3943-7416
