[date]31 January 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Appoints Prof. Wong Suk-ying as Associate Vice-President[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Prof. Wong Suk-ying, Professor in the Department of Sociology and Director of Office of Admissions and Financial Aid, as Associate Vice-President for two years on a concurrent basis from 1 February 2016.
Prof. Wong Suk-Ying received her undergraduate training at the University of Liverpool (UK) and obtained her PhD from Stanford University.  She began her teaching career as a visiting lecturer at Beijing Normal University and Nankai University in China when she was a doctoral candidate at Stanford University.  Since then, she had been on the teaching faculty at several other higher education institutions in the United States and Japan before joining CUHK in 1997.  Her teaching and research profession began with a Spencer Post-doctoral Fellowship award from the US National Academy of Education and a named Distinguished Junior Research Fellow by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.  Professor Wong has received major research grants from the Hong Kong Research Grant Council, and the Bilateral Hong Kong RGC-UK Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).  Her primary interests involve the sociology of education and youth, organisations and higher education.  She was also the recipient of the Vice-Chancellor’s Exemplary Teaching Award (2005), CUHK.
Professor Wong is pleased to accept the appointment, ‘I seek to continue recruiting the best and brightest young adults who can follow their passions in this vibrant environment of learning while striving to enhance educational access and quality for students from diverse backgrounds.  My goal is also to create and provide an array of opportunities for international academic and intellectual exchange for this community of eminent scholars and effervescent young learners whose worldviews become enriched through such experiences.  I take pride in joining the team in building and consolidating a CUHK that plays a pivotal role in transforming lives and societies.’
Besides her notable achievements in research and teaching, Professor Wong also possesses an extensive experience in university administration.  She was the Associate Dean (Student Affairs) of the Faculty of Social Science of CUHK between 2008 and 2013, the Founding Dean of Students of CW Chu College between 2012 and 2016, and the Director of Admissions and Financial Aid since 2013.
Professor Wong also demonstrates an active record of community service both at home and abroad.  To name a few, she serves as the Director of the Board of Management, Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS), Hong Kong, a member of the Joint Committee on Student Finance, Working Family and Student Financial Assistance Agency, Hong Kong, an External Examiner for the Nursing Council of Hong Kong, a Subject Specialist for the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications, the former co-president of the Comparative Education Society of Asia, Honorary Guest Professor with the School of Ethnology and Sociology, Minzu University of China, and a member of the International Advisory Board, Academy of Korean Studies, Korean Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, South Korea. 