[date]18 January 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Forum on ‘Community Green Stations’
Open for Public Registration[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia will hold a forum entitled ‘Community Green Stations’ at the ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay this Friday (22 January). The forum, under the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series, will bring together experts from different sectors to share knowledge on and insights into the setting-up and benefits of Community Green Stations. The forum will be conducted in Cantonese. Members of the public are welcome and admission is free. 
The Environment Bureau of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government has set a target of 40% reduction in the per capita disposal rate of municipal solid waste by 2022. To achieve the target, the Bureau plans, among other measures, to set up a Community Green Station in each of the 18 districts in Hong Kong, to mobilize public participation, as well as to provide waste-related infrastructures and logistics support. The first two stations were commissioned in Sha Tin and the Eastern District in May and September 2015, respectively. 
At the forum, Mr Samson Lai, Assistant Director (Waste Management Policy) of the Environmental Protection Department, Hong Kong SAR Government, will deliver a keynote speech on the benefits of setting up Community Green Stations and how it supports the mission to educate the local communities in waste reduction, recycling and green living. Mr Kwok Lit-tung, Chief Executive of the Christian Family Service Centre, Ms Alice Lam, Former Chairman of the Food, Environment and Hygiene Committee, Eastern District Council, and Prof. Poon Chi-sun, Chair Professor of Sustainable Construction Materials, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, will also offer insights into the topic and exchange views with the audience. 
Environment and Climate Change Forum Series: Community Green StationsDate: Friday, 22 January 2016Time: 3:00 pm–5:00 pmVenue: Multi-purpose Hall, ZCB (Zero Carbon Building), 8 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon BayRegistration: www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia (first-come, first-served) 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Committed to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
To draw on collective wisdom and to encourage active public participation in tackling various environmental issues, CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia has organized the Environment and Climate Change Forum Series. The forums invite experts and practitioners from different fields, as well as members of the public, to offer different perspectives on environmental challenges and the impact of climate change, and to develop possible solutions. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public. The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community. 
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.