[date]20 October 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Statement on the Appointment of Next Council Chairman[/title]
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announces today (20 October) following its meeting, that the Council is presently not in a position to nominate to the Chancellor for his appointment, pursuant to The Chinese University of Hong Kong Ordinance, a person to be the next Council Chairman since the nomination committee has not completed its deliberations.  The Council concurred that the nomination committee should continue its work to further deliberate on a nominee.  
The present Council Chairman Dr. Vincent H.C. Cheng’s term of office will expire on 23 October.  With effect from 24 October, Mr. Chien Lee, Vice-Chairman of the Council will discharge the duties of the Chairman of the Council until such time when a new Chairman is appointed.  The Council is deeply grateful to Dr. Cheng for his dedicated and distinguished service over the past 6 years, leading the University to reach new heights.  The Council hopes that he will continue to serve as a member of the Council for a period of time to assist in various council matters.  Due to indisposition, Dr. Cheng joined today’s meeting via teleconferencing, during which he indicated his willingness to continue to serve the University.
The Council set up the nomination committee in June this year to nominate the next Chairman.  The committee has conducted three meetings in which the roles and responsibilities, the required knowledge and experience, and commitment to Council affairs of a Chairman were discussed and set out.  The committee has also carefully considered the 18 Council members from four categories who are eligible for the appointment of Chairman, in the hope of making the best nomination.  Since there are quite a few Council members who are newly appointed, the Council concurred with the committee’s view that it will need more time to deliberate before making a recommendation on the nominee.
The University reiterates that academic freedom and institutional autonomy are the core values that the University will continue to uphold.  The Council will carry on with the nomination work in accordance with the University Ordinance and established procedures.
According to Statute 11.1(a) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Ordinance, the Council Chairman shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the nomination of the Council from persons under the following four categories: (a) 6 persons nominated by the Chancellor; (b) 3 persons elected by the Members of the Legislative Council; (c) not more than 6 persons, normally resident in Hong Kong, elected by the Council; (d) not more than 3 persons elected by the Convocation.  Of the current 53 Council members, 18 are eligible for the appointment.