[date]22 October 2015[/date]
[title]New Developments in CUHK LLB Programme
Careers Office Established to Provide Guidance in Professional Development[/title]
The Faculty of Law at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK Law) is one of the fastest growing law schools in the world. In its first decade of existence, CUHK Law has become one of the global top 50 law schools (ranked 42nd in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015) and the best law school in Hong Kong in terms of research excellence (2014 Research Assessment Exercise 2014). The CUHK Bachelor of Laws (LLB) Programme is home to the future leaders of both Hong Kong’s legal profession and civic community.  Its students have won international mooting competitions against law students from around the world, won prestigious scholarships for further legal study at other world-class institutions like the University of Oxford, and have quickly become recognised by employers in Hong Kong for their dedication, intelligence, and commitment to justice for all. It is no surprise, then, that many CUHK Law alumni can now be found working in leading international law firms both in and out of Hong Kong, while others have gone on to success as solicitors in smaller firms devoted to the day-to-day legal needs of the average Hong Konger, while still others can found in a wide array of positions in business and government. 
Newly Established Law Student Careers Office 
To better equip law graduates with the necessary skills for success in the increasingly competitive marketplace for jobs, CUHK Law has established the Law Student Careers Office to provide students with guidance on career choices and in both career preparation and professional development.  The Director, internationally renowned litigator Mr. Paul Mitchard QC, has prepared a comprehensive Career Planning and Professionalism Programme which includes seminars on CV-building, networking tips, and interviewing techniques, along with presentations by law firm representatives and other prospective employers. The Virtual Careers Resource Centre, also available only to CUHK Law students, is a database with up-to-date information on law firms and internship and other employment opportunities for students. 
Well-acclaimed Sir TL Yang Society Distinguished Professional Mentor (DPM) Programme 
The DPM Programme plays an indispensable role in shaping the success of CUHK LLB graduates.  The Programme is designed to give individual LLB students the opportunity to meet and receive advice from professionals in the legal profession.  Each undergraduate student is paired with a DPM to help guide them throughout their years of study at CUHK Law and to help develop their professional life. The DPMs include senior partners, partners and solicitors from international and local law firms, senior counsel and counsel from chambers, and judges from the High Court and other district courts.  They act as advisors on professional and ethical matters associated with a legal career. 
The Faculty Provides Supportive Environments to Students with Special Educational Needs 
CUHK and the Faculty of Law have a commitment to supporting any student whose personal circumstances may make it more difficult to pursue their chosen programme of study.  Over the years, the Faculty has admitted several students with special educational needs and all of them have done well in their studies despite their disabilities.  Among them, Mr. Terence Wong Man-kit, a year-4 LLB student, has demonstrated exceptional academic performance throughout the time that he has been a student in the Faculty. 
Terence was diagnosed with Becker’s muscular dystrophy when he was young. The disease weakens his muscles progressively, affecting his physical capabilities.  He is in a wheelchair and has only limited use of a few fingers.  Against all the odds, he managed to achieve academic excellence.  He was one of the top scorers in the first HKDSE Examination, attaining 5 or over in six subjects.  Since joining CUHK Law, he has won many awards and scholarships, including placement on the Dean’s List, the Bank of East Asia Scholarship, the HSBC Hong Kong Scholarship, and Wei Lun Foundation Scholarship for the Faculty of Law. 
Terence is very grateful to the University and the Faculty for their supporting measures, including specialist computing facilities, special examination arrangements, and all the efforts made to address his needs.  These enable him to devote all of his time and energy to learning.  Being an LLB student, Terence has found the DPM Programme very helpful, giving him an opportunity to meet many senior law professionals and receive guidance and encouragement from them. 
Prof. Christopher Gane, Dean of the Faculty of Law and Simon FS Li Professor of Law said, ‘The Faculty of Law is rightly proud of Terence’s achievements.  He has been the recipient of a number of awards, based entirely on academic achievement, although he has had to face many challenges because of his disability.  Difference in physical ability is not important to those who provide legal services, and those who use legal services.  What matters are the lawyering skills of the individual in questions, and their personal qualities.  Terence offers hope and a role model for other students who may feel that their personal difficulties preclude them from pursuing a career in the law.  The Faculty and the entire university will do all that we can to support such potential students.’