[date]2 March 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds the ‘Green Mini Movies Festival 2016’[/title]
The Green Mini Movies Festival 2016 hosted by the Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme of CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) was an encouraging success. The annual festival included a mini movies workshop and competition, as well as visits and an experience sharing session. By producing green mini movies on their own, the participating students have learned more about environmental initiatives taking place in the local communities, and have been encouraged to explore and share innovative ways of going green. The champions of the green mini movies competition are Yuen Long Government Primary School and CCC Fong Yun Wah Secondary School.
The prize presentation ceremony for the Green Mini Movies Festival 2016 was held recently, with an attendance of about 130 teachers and students together with their parents from 24 schools. Professor Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Ms Vivian Lee, Senior Charities Manager of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Ms Vivian Ho, Director of Campus Planning and Sustainability Office of CUHK, Dr Rebecca Lee, Founder of Polar Museum Foundation and Honorary Fellow of CUHK, Ms Idy Wong, Head of Sustainable Living and Agriculture Department of Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden, and Dr Yau Wing-kwong, CEO of Environmental Association, presented awards to the winning students.
At the sharing session, the participating students noted that not only had they gained practical skills in movie production and a wide range of environmental knowledge, but they had also built a strong team spirit that helped them better understand the importance of collective efforts in solving environmental problems. They hoped the audience would find their green mini movies a source of inspiration and be motivated to build a sustainable future for Hong Kong by living a low-carbon lifestyle. The adjudicators also commented that the mini movies produced by the students genuinely reflect their views on environmental protection, and therefore would better resonate with the young generation. 
The winners of the green mini movies competition are as follows:

 
Primary School Students Category
Secondary School Students Category

Champion
Yuen Long Government Primary School
CCC Fong Yun Wah Secondary School

First Runner-up
Lok Sin Tong Primary School
St. Paul's Secondary School

Second Runner-up
Oblate Primary School
The Chinese Foundation Secondary School

Best Screenplay
Yuen Long Government Primary School
CCC Fong Yun Wah Secondary School

Merit
Baptist (Sha Tin Wai) Lui Ming Choi Primary School
PLK Dr. Jimmy Wong Chi-Ho (Tin Sum Valley) Primary School
 
Lee Kau Yan Memorial School
The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council Tung Chung Integrated Services Centre
Tsuen Wan Public Ho Chuen Yiu Memorial College

The green mini movies are available for viewing on the website of Gaia:http://www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/ggc/gmmf2016. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Committed to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) maintained by Gaia is open for free to the public. The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of the renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research in environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives that promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.