[date]1 March 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Establishes MOE Key Laboratory of Regenerative Medicine (The Chinese University of Hong Kong – Jinan University)[/title]
With the approval of the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China (MOE), The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has joined hands with Jinan University to establish the MOE Key Laboratory of Regenerative Medicine (The Chinese University of Hong Kong – Jinan University). The joint Laboratory aims to develop various innovative techniques for regenerating tissues and organs, which will contribute to the betterment of human health. 
A plaque-unveiling ceremony of the Laboratory was held recently at CUHK. Officiating at the ceremony were Mr. Lei Zhengang, Director of the Department of Cultural Affairs, Overseas Chinese Affairs Office of the State Council; Prof. Hu Jun, President of Jinan University; Mr. Liu Zhi Ming, Deputy Inspector of the Department of Educational, Scientific and Technological Affairs, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR; and Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK. 
Professor Sung remarked, ‘The Laboratory is not only a platform for substantive cooperation between the two universities, but also an important training base for scientific talents.  Along with this, it provides a channel for CUHK researchers to contribute to the development of national scientific research.  Through the establishment of the MOE Laboratory, the two universities will further enhance their cooperative ties on relevant research with complementary advantages, as well as the cultivation of talents, which will go towards constructing an influential research base at an international level.’ 
Prof. Chan Waiyee, Director of the School of Biomedical Sciences of CUHK, has been appointed as the co-director of the MOE Key Laboratory. The Hong Kong site of the Laboratory is located at the School of Biomedical Sciences, CUHK. The Laboratory’s two mainland sites are situated at Jinan University and the CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute. Researchers from the two universities will jointly conduct research on (1) the use of stem cells in bone, heart and nerve repairs; (2) the use of stem cells to heal the brain after stroke; (3) understanding how tissues and organs normally develop and (4) discovering small chemical molecules that could fabricate stem cells and tissues. 
MOE Key Laboratories are an important part of national science and technology development, focusing on the nurture of innovative individuals and the facilitation of research development. They play an increasing role in the construction of research disciplines, technological innovation, the training of talents in mainland universities and the development of national research centers. Scholars in CUHK and from Jinan University have been collaborating since 2007 in the area of regenerative medicine. The establishment of the Key Laboratory signifies an even deeper collaboration between the two universities as partners in regenerative medicine research to help raise that development to new levels of excellence.