[date]6 January 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Presents Nobel Economist lecturing on ‘Good Pension Design’
Public is welcome [/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will present a distinguished public lecture on ‘Good Pension Design’ delivered by Professor Peter A. Diamond, 2010 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, on 14 January, 2016 (Thursday). During the lecture, Professor Diamond will share his insight into pension systems and retirement protection. Members of the public are welcome to join the lecture by online registration at www.econ.cuhk.edu.hk/registration/diamond. 
Populations around the world are rapidly ageing. Pension systems and retirement protection are widely debated. In Hong Kong, the six-month public engagement exercise on retirement protection, launched by the HKSAR government in December 2015, also arouses wide discussion in society. As a world-renowned economist in the field of retirement protection, Professor Diamond will discuss in the lecture the pension systems in several countries which are generally regarded as good systems. 
Professor Diamond is an Institute Professor Emeritus at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) where he taught from 1966 and was the head of the MIT economics department from 1985 to 1986. He has written on Social Security, Labour Economics and Public Finance. His journals including ‘Proposals to Restructure Social Security’ (Journal of Economic Perspectives), ‘Social Security’ (American Economic Review), ‘Saving Social Security’ (with Peter R. Orszag, Journal of Economic Perspectives) and ‘Reforming Public Pensions in the US and the UK’ (Economic Journal) are widely cited in the discussion on pension systems in the world. He has also co-authored a number of books on social security, including ‘Saving Social Security: A Balanced Approach’ (with Peter R. Orszag), ‘Reforming Pensions: Principles and Policy Choices’ and ‘Pension Reform: A Short Guide’ (both with Nicholas Barr). 
Professor Diamond has also advised on the public pension systems in many countries including Australia, Chile, China, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
Professor Diamond was the President of the American Economic Association and of the Econometric Society. He is a founding member of the National Academy of Social Insurance. He also received numerous honours for his outstanding contributions to economics including inaugural winner of the ‘Erwin Plein Nemmers Prize in Economics’, winner of the ‘Robert M. Bell Award for Outstanding Achievements in Social Insurance’ and winner of the ‘2010 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences’.