[date]2 December 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Eighth CAE Academicians Lecture Series
Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the eighth Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) Academicians Visit Programme and Lecture Series from 8 to 11 December 2015. Five distinguished academicians, including Prof. Wei Ziqin of the Division of Information and Electronic Engineering, Prof. Meng Wei and Prof. Ding Yihui of the Division of Environment, Light and Textile Industries Engineering, Prof. Ding Wenjiang of the Division of Chemical, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, and Prof. Kang Shaozhong of the Division of Agriculture, will visit CUHK for academic exchange. They will deliver public lectures and meet with CUHK representatives to discuss collaboration opportunities between the two institutions. 
The scholars will visit the Institute of Space and Earth Information Science, the Department of Geography and Resource Management, the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability, the Orthopaedic Learning Center, the State Key Laboratory of Agrobiotechnology, and the Jocky Club Museum of Climate Change at CUHK. On 9 December, they will give five public lectures on CUHK campus to share experience and expertise in their respective fields of research. The lectures will be conducted in Mandarin. Members of the public are welcome. For more information and registration, please visit: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/cae_2015/. 
Prof. Wei Ziqin, Division of Information and Electronic Engineering, is a renowned researcher at Xian Institute of Survey and Mapping, with expertise in land surveying. He has published over 100 papers and 2 books, as well as being actively involved in various surveying research fields. 
Prof. Meng Wei, Division of Environment, Light and Textile Industries Engineering, is the Vice Chairperson of the Environment Protection and Resources Conservation Committee of the 12th National People’s Congress and the President of the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences, as well as the Professor of Tsinghua University and Beijing Normal University, with expertise in the science and technology of water basin pollution control and water environmental protection.
Prof. Ding Yihui, Division of Environment, Light and Textile Industries Engineering, is a noted scientist in the areas of atmospheric science and climate change, with many contributions to important international programmes and activities. He also plays an outstanding role in many Chinese projects, especially on the Asian monsoon, heavy rainfalls in East Asia and climate change in China. 
Prof. Ding Wenjiang, Division of Chemical, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, is now a Professor of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, with expertise in light alloy net forming engineering. He plays a crucial role in various committees, including the President of International Light Alloy Association and the Chinese Director of the Chinese-Norwegian Symposium on Light Metals.
Prof. Kang Shaozhong, Division of Agriculture, is currently a Professor of China Agricultural University, with expertise in water-saving agriculture and water management in arid and semi-arid areas. He has developed theories and practices to improve crop water use efficiency and regulate deficit irrigation, and has established the optimal regional water management model in Northwest China. 