[date]14 December 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change Presents Premiere of The Drama of Climate Change[/title]
To increase public awareness of climate change, the CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) presented an original play The Drama of Climate Change which premiered at ZCB (Zero Carbon Building) in Kowloon Bay last Friday (11 December).  The performance was well received by an audience of 110 from the government, public organizations, tertiary institutions and two primary schools. 
The Drama of Climate Change was launched in 2015, touring about 40 primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong.  The drama’s successful tour has led to a new collaboration between the MoCC and Chung Ying Theatre Company.  The new play ties in the theme of the MoCC and echoes the first Hong Kong Biodiversity Festival’s spirit of encouraging stewardship of biodiversity.  The new drama tour will take place between January and May 2016.  Schools are welcome to book a show by contacting the MoCC. 
Ms Wong Sean-yee, Anissa, JP, Permanent Secretary for the Environment and Director of Environmental Protection of the HKSAR Government, and Ms Imelda Chan, The Hong Kong Jockey Club’s Executive Manager, Charities officiated at the premiere.  Ms Wong noted that, to tackle climate change, we had to reduce carbon emission by minimizing power consumption and practising the 3R’s: reduce, reuse and recycle waste.  In addition, the community and government departments should work together to enhance Hong Kong’s adaptability and preparedness for the challenges of climate change.  She emphasized that the issue of climate change should not be taken lightly.  If everyone does their part to lead a low-carbon lifestyle, Hong Kong will become a greener and more sustainable city. 
Ms Imelda Chan said it was two years since the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change had been established, and the Club was very pleased that it had since attracted over 80,000 visitors.  To make Hong Kong a green city with the active participation of all citizens, the Club was always keen to support green programmes in the community that would encourage everyone to live an eco-friendly lifestyle. 
Professor Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, said the University had identified clear targets and strategies for reduction of carbon emission.  Working towards the goal of building a sustainable community, CUHK set up in 2013 the world’s first museum on climate change with a generous donation from HKJC.  He also thanked the Environment Bureau, government departments, the school sector and relevant organizations for their support to the museum over the past two years, and reiterated the MoCC’s commitment to the sustainable development of Hong Kong. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a 5-year community engagement programme launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.  Committed to paving a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme aims at promoting environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The first of its kind in the world, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) offers an interactive and multimedia exhibition showcasing valuable collections and information about climate change. It is an ideal venue for the public, especially students and teachers, to champion the cause of environmental stewardship and keep themselves abreast of the latest developments on environmental conservation and sustainability. Extended activities of the MoCC exhibition include eco tours that guide visitors around the prime ecological sites and green facilities on the vast CUHK campus and a variety of workshops and activities that promote green living.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.