[date]1 November 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK I‧CARE Community Research Program: Anti-Slavery Week[/title]
With the support of the I.CARE Community Research Program of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), four undergraduate students from the School of Nursing have conducted a research on the issue of human trafficking.  They have organized the ‘Anti-Slavery Week’ to be held from 2-5 November on campus to share their findings and observations through an exhibition, a film show and a seminar, hoping that more people will be aware of the issue and have a deeper understanding.  All are welcome. 
For seven consecutive years, Hong Kong has been classified as Tier 2 region in the Trafficking in Persons Report released by the U.S. Department of State.  The report stated that Hong Kong is a destination, transit, and source territory of human trafficking.  The report pointed out that Hong Kong’s law do not specifically prohibit all forms of trafficking. 
The students organizing the ‘Anti-Slavery Week’ have studied related policies in Hong Kong and interviewed various local and overseas organizations which combat human trafficking. They aim to share their observations with the public via the following activities: 
Trafficking SimulationIn the 25-minute simulation, participants will taste the horrifying experience of victims subjected to sex trafficking and forced labour. They will also visit the simulated ‘Pink Room’, a place where Cambodian sex trafficking victims live in.
Date: 2-5 November 2015Time: 12:30pm - 2:00pm, 4:00pm - 6:30pmVenue: LG/F, Benjamin Franklin Centre, CUHK
ExhibitionThe concepts, forms and situation of human trafficking will be introduced. Local artists will showcase their works related to the topic and representatives of NGOs will share their experience in combating human trafficking. 
Date: 2-5 November 2015Time: 12:30pm - 6:30pmVenue: Cultural Square, CUHK
Movie night《The Pink Room》Date: 4 November 2015Time: 7:00pmVenue: LT3, Science Centre, CUHK（Post-Screening seminar will be held
ForumOrganizers of different NGOs in HK, including OMHK and Mekong Club, will share their experience in combating trafficking crimes. A member of Beyond U will also share her personal experience in interviewing Cambodian victims alone.Date: 5 November 2015Time: 12:30pm - 2:30pm Venue: G36, Lady Shaw Building, CUHK（Lunch will be provided） 
About I‧CARE Programme 
With the slogan 'Aspiration through reflection; Renewal through civility', the I‧CARE Programme aims to promote students' holistic development through social and civic engagements in Hong Kong, mainland China and overseas countries. Led by the Steering Committee for Promoting Personal Development through Social and Civic Engagement, the programme adopts an integrated approach and supports students to participate in five major categories of programmes, including service projects and self-initiated action-research projects; internships in non-governmental organizations (NGOs); social enterprises and corporate social responsibility measures; university lectures on civility, seminars and forums; and enhancement of students' mental wellness.