[date]24 January 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Engineering Professor Jianwei Huang Elected IEEE Fellow 2016[/title]
Prof. Jianwei Huang from the Department of Information Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has been elected Fellow of the prestigious Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2016 for his contributions to resource allocation in wireless systems.  This year, 297 scholars were elected IEEE fellows worldwide, and 2% of them are below 40 years old. At the age of 37, Professor Huang is the youngest among the three newly elected IEEE Fellows from Hong Kong this year. 
The IEEE Fellow is one of the most prestigious honors of the IEEE, and is bestowed upon a very limited number of Senior Members who have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology, bringing significant value to our society. 
Professor Huang said, ‘I am deeply honored in being elevated to Fellow of IEEE, and grateful for continuous strong support from the Department, Faculty and University over the past nine years since I joined CUHK.  In particular, this recognition would not have been made without the generous help and advice from many colleagues of the Department of Information Engineering.’  
Professor Huang is Associate Professor and Director of the Network Communications and Economics Lab at the Department of Information Engineering, CUHK.  His main research focuses on network optimizations and economics, cognitive radio and dynamic spectrum sharing, and smart grid economics. Recently, he proposed a novel business model for utilizing idle TV white spaces in the TV spectrum, which can make broadband wireless services economical and sustainable. In recognition of his recent works, he was selected as the IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Lecturer 2015-16.
Professor Huang also received the CUHK Young Researcher Award in 2014 and IEEE ComSoc Asia-Pacific Outstanding Young Researcher Award in 2009. He was the co-recipient of eight international Best Paper Awards, including IEEE Marconi Prize Paper Award in Wireless Communications in 2011, and Best (Student) Paper Awards from IEEE WiOpt 2015, IEEE WiOpt 2014, IEEE WiOpt 2013, IEEE SmartGridComm 2012, WiCON 2011, IEEE GLOBECOM 2010, and APCC 2009.  He has co-authored four books, five ESI highly cited papers, and close to 200 papers and book chapters in top international venues.  
About IEEE 
The IEEE is the world's largest professional organization dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity, with more than 430,000 members in over 160 countries.  IEEE Fellowship is one of the most prestigious honors of the Institute, and conferred upon a person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of interest.  The total number of recipients each year does not exceed 0.1% of the total voting IEEE membership.