[date]23 November 2015[/date]
[title]CUHK Receives Winners’ Cup at National Challenge Cup Competition[/title]
Students of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) swept top awards in the 14th Challenge Cup held at Guangdong University of Technology, and won the Winners’ Cup, the second top prize of the competition. With overall outstanding performance, CUHK received the second top prize, Winners’ Cup, beating more than 300 participating universities and over 780 projects from mainland china, Hong Kong and Macau. CUHK was the only institution in Hong Kong to receive this highest award since the competition accepting participation of Hong Kong tertiary institutions in 1997.
As a bi-annual national competition, the Challenge Cup is known as the "Olympics" in promoting innovation in social science, science and technology for university students in China. In the past, CUHK had already won the Hong Kong and Macau Cup for 6 consecutive times. This year, Hong Kong teams joined the national competition to compete with other mainland university finalist for the first time. CUHK won the Winners’ Cup this year. The result is very encouraging.
Eight teams of CUHK students participated in the competition. Projects and awards are listed below.
Name of Project
Name of Student
Affiliated Department
Name of Award
Solution for One-step Sewage Treatment - Genetic Circuit Construction to Simplify Denitrification
Leung King-pong, Loo Fong-chuen, Seak Chi-u
School of Life Science
First Award
Sign Language Educator – Vision Aid Sensor Glove
Lai Jintao, Tang Ding, Chen Bowen, Zhong Zhuowei
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
First Award
Semisolid Vanadium Redox Flow Battery
Wang Zengyue
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
First Award
Miniature Environment-Friendly Tadpole Robot for Capsule Endoscope to Examine the Entire Gastrointestinal Tract
Zhong Yong, Zhang Lin
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Second Award
Mechanical Energy Harvested Damper
Chu Ki-sum
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Second Award
Hollow-Core, Porous-Shell, Spindle-Like Fe304Nanocapsules for Controlled Drug Delivery
Chan Kai-fung
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering
Second Award
Wearable Exoskeleton Suit for Paralyzed Individuals
Ma Hao, Chen Bing, Qin Laiyin, Guan Xiao
Department of Mechanical and Automation EngineeringDepartment of Orthopaedics and Traumatology
Second Award
R-Guardian Anti-lost System
Kuo Wai-keung, Lau Pak-lam, Cheung Wai-lam, Chung Yiu Ting
Department of Information Engineering
Third Award
CUHK always strives to encourage and enhance students’ creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship by cultivating their interests and capabilities in research, technological developments and transfers. The University also encourages cross-disciplinary collaboration among students from different faculties to pool the best young innovative brains together for synergetic effects.