[date]20 April 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia to Hold ‘Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2016’ to Promote Climate Change and Biodiversity
All are Welcome[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) will hold the Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2016 on 23 and 24 April (Saturday and Sunday) at Metro City Plaza II in Tseung Kwan O. The environment fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that brings joy and promotes green messages to the public. The theme of the 2016 fair is ‘climate change and biodiversity’. An original play presented by the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC), The Drama of Climate Change, will make its first public performance at the fair. All members of the public are welcome. Admission is free. 
The opening ceremony of the Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2016 will be held at 1:30 pm on 23 April (Saturday). Dr Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government, Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Chairman of the Steering Committee of Gaia, Dr Rebecca Lee, Founder of the Polar Museum Foundation, and Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, will officiate at the opening ceremony. 
Interactive information and game booths, hosted by several of Gaia’s strategic partners, will be available at the two-day fair. The Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department will introduce the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. The New York-based R.A.R.E. (Rare Animals Really Endangered) will use art to raise environmental awareness. China Holiness Church Living Spirit College, one of the active members of Gaia’s Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme, will showcase the school’s Organic Farming and Environmental Education Park and what it has to offer. Fung Yuen Butterfly Reserve of the Environmental Association will present engaging interactive environmental games to create a fun and unforgettable experience for the public. 
MoCC interns will introduce the concept of ‘aquaponics’ and demonstrate the making of a simplified aquaponics system. MoCC will present the panoramic virtual tour for the first time, to enhance the community’s awareness of climate change. After the virtual tour, visitors can participate in a quiz and win a limited-edition souvenir. 
Environment Fair cum MoCC Roadshow 2016
Date:
23–24 April 2016 (Saturday &amp; Sunday)
Time:
1:30 pm – 5:00 pm (Saturday)11:00 am – 5:00 pm (Sunday)
Venue:
Atrium, Metro City Plaza II, 8 Yan King Road, Tseung Kwan O, New Territories (Po Lam MTR Station)
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a five-year community engagement programme, launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. In support of Gaia’s commitment to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme’s aim is to promote environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
The first of its kind in the world, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC), maintained by Gaia, is open to the public with free admission. The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research on the environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives to promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.