[date]27 April 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change Presents Earth Day 2016
[/title]
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) organised a series of environmental education activities last Friday (22 April) in support of Earth Day 2016, including a drama show ‘The Drama of Climate Change’, a sharing session with a climate scientist, a guided tour of the MoCC and an eco tour of Lake Ad Excellentiam. 
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, Prof. Gabriel Lau, Director of the Institute of Environment, Energy and Sustainability of CUHK, Ms. Michelle Au, Political Assistant to the Secretary for the Environment of the Government of the HKSAR, and over 160 teachers, students and parents from Chan’s Creative School, Lei Muk Shue Catholic Primary School, Maryknoll Fathers’ School and Stewards Pooi Tun Secondary School took part in the event. A special show called The Drama of Climate Change was performed by the Chung Ying Theatre Company. It introduced the relationship between climate change and biodiversity through interactive theatre-in-education, and encouraged stewardship of biodiversity. After the show, Prof. Gabriel Lau shared his experience as a leader in climate research and had a fruitful discussion with the students. He also encouraged them to actively practise green living and to work together to combat climate change. 
The guests and participants then visited the MoCC and Lake Ad Excellentiam, showing great interest in the world’s first climate change museum and the exhibits of different sections. The students agreed that the explanations of the MoCC interns during the tour helped them explore more deeply the issues of climate change and the importance of building sustainable ecosystems. 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a five-year community engagement programme, launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. In support of Gaia’s commitment to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme’s aim is to promote environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations. 
The first of its kind in the world, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) offers an interactive, multimedia exhibition, showcasing valuable collections and information about climate change. It is the ideal venue for the public, especially students and teachers, to learn about and champion the cause of environmental stewardship and keep themselves abreast of the latest developments in environmental conservation and sustainability. Extended activities of the MoCC exhibition include eco tours that guide visitors around the prime ecological sites and green facilities on the vast CUHK campus, and a variety of workshops and activities that promote green living. 
More details of the MoCC can be found at www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/MoCC.