[date]23 April 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia Holds Environment Fair 2016 featuring MoCC Roadshow to Promote Awareness of Climate Change and Biodiversity[/title]
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia (Gaia) is holding the Environment Fair featuring the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) Roadshow today and tomorrow (23–24 April) at Metro City Plaza II in Tseung Kwan O. Admission to the Environment Fair is free. All are welcome.
The Fair is an annual signature event of Gaia that promotes green messages to the public through interactive information and game booths. The Fair has seen the first public performance of an original play, The Drama of Climate Change, by the Chung Ying Theatre Company, which was warmly received. This year the Fair features the brand-new MoCC virtual tour and green demos. The purpose of the panoramic virtual tour is to reach out to the public and inspire them to visit to the MoCC for a more holistic experience. MoCC interns are also introducing the concept of ‘aquaponics’ and demonstrating how to make a simple aquaponics system.
Officiating at the opening ceremony were Dr Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government, Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and Chairman of the Steering Committee of Gaia, Dr Rebecca Lee, Founder of the Polar Museum Foundation, and Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK.
Professor Fok said, ‘To turn climate threats into opportunities for sustainable development, cooperation of different sectors and participation of every member of the community are needed. I invite you to check out the booths for biodiversity tips and join Gaia to make a difference.’
‘The Club has been actively promoting environmental protection. In order to encourage more citizens to live a greener life and to promote low-carbon living, we have supported many environmental community outreach programmes,’ said Mr Cheung.
Dr Ko noted that the government was very supportive of community efforts to protect the environment. He said, ‘Hong Kong is small in area – slightly over 1,000 square metres, but we have recorded more than 500 species of birds. Let’s cherish what we have, by preserving Hong Kong’s biodiversity and cultivating green habits among our children.’
Several of Gaia’s strategic partners have been invited to showcase their green initiatives and achievements at the Fair. The Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department are introducing the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. The New York-based R.A.R.E. (Rare Animals Really Endangered) is using art to raise environmental awareness. China Holiness Church Living Spirit College, one of the active members of Gaia’s Go Green Community – Jockey Club Carbon Reduction Partnership Scheme, is showcasing the school’s Organic Farming and Environmental Education Park and what it has to offer. The Fung Yuen Butterfly Reserve of the Environmental Association is presenting engaging interactive environmental games to create a fun and an unforgettable experience for the public.
 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a five-year community engagement programme, launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. In support of Gaia’s commitment to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme’s aim is to promote environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organizations.
The first of its kind in the world, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC), maintained by Gaia, is open to the public with free admission. The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research on the environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives to promote green living in the community.
More details of the CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia can be found at www.cuhk.edu.hk/gaia.