[date]6 July 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Launches Chinese Art &amp; Culture Month for 400 International Summer School Students [/title]
The International Summer School of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), which draws students from all over the world every year, is launching an inaugural ‘Chinese Art and Culture Month’ for the 400 foreign students attending the Summer School this year. The University is honoured to have the generous support of the Qin Jia Yuan Foundation Limited, co-founded by Dr. Philip WONG Yu-hong and Dr. Anita LEUNG Fung-yee, in introducing this ‘Chinese Art and Culture Month’.  It will comprise a series of Chinese traditional art and cultural performances and seminars, conducted by renowned Chinese artists, to give students an in-depth and interactive experience of Chinese culture.  The upcoming sessions from 6-13 July on Chinese folk arts, guzheng, kunqu, cantonese opera and Chinese folk songs are open to members of the public.  Free admission.  For details of upcoming events and online registration, please visit: http://www.ws.cuhk.edu.hk/student-information/chinese-art-and-culture-month?lang=en. 
The opening ceremony was held today (6 July) at the Yasumoto International Academic Park in CUHK, attended by Prof. Joseph J.Y. SUNG, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Dr. Anita LEUNG, Co-Founder and Life Honorary Chairman, Qin Jia Yuan Foundation Limited; Dr. Philip WONG, Co-Founder and Life Honorary Chairman, Qin Jia Yuan Foundation Limited; Prof. FOK Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK; Prof. Joseph Wan-yee LAU, Master, Lee Woo Sing College, CUHK; and Prof. WONG Suk-ying, Associate Vice-President, CUHK, as well as the 400 students of the International Summer School.  In addition to a Sichuan face-changing show that amazed the audience during the ceremony, the students were also excited to be writing Chinese calligraphy with Professor Sung who showed them the beauty of Chinese characters. 
Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK, remarked, ‘This year’s International Summer School stands out from previous years, in that it's the first time we are having a “Chinese Art and Culture Month” – a series of Chinese cultural performances and heritage-related activities, tailor-made for all the lucky students here coming from different parts of the world.  We must give our heartfelt thanks to Dr. Philip Wong and Dr. Anita Leung.  Without their vision and generous donation, this colorful Chinese Art and Culture Month would not have been possible.’ 
The ‘Chinese Art and Culture Month’ is organized by Lee Woo Sing College of CUHK.  A series of art and culture activities is being rolled out during the July session of the CUHK International Summer School, allowing students abroad to appreciate the different facets of Chinese culture.  The programme features excellent performances of Kunqu, Peking Opera, Cantonese Opera, Chinese folk music, Chinese music, movie and dance by renowned masters and artists, including the China Disabled People’s Performing Art Troupe, Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe, Kunqu performer Dr. Koo Ti-hua, national class one perfomer Mr. Wang Lijun, renowned Jiangnan painter Mr. Ji Quanbao, the world’s leading Chinese guzheng artist Dr. Lunlun Zou, and the daughter of the grandmaster of Cantonese Opera Ms. Pak Kui-wing, Ms. Pak Suet-mui.  Some students will also visit Guangzhou to see the architecture and heritage, including Bruce Lee’s home, taste the most authentic Cantonese cuisine,and mix with the people there. 
Dr. Anita Leung is a distinguished CUHK alumna and has never ceased to support her alma mater.  Sharing the vision of CUHK to promote Chinese culture and nurture future leaders, Dr. Leung generously supported the ‘Chinese Art and Culture Month’ and invited Dr. Alice Lam, a prominent banker and community leader, to be the programme’s Honourable Advisor, and Ms. Karen Mok, a famous actress and singer-songwriter who has enjoyed phenomenal success worldwide, to be its Cultural Ambassador. 
Prof. Joseph Lau, Master, Lee Woo Sing College, CUHK, said, ‘Our College places great emphasis on both the intellectual and cultural development of the students.  We have hosted various large-scale art and cultural events on campus, and we are excited about introducing this Summer Programme, which has invited renowned Chinese artists to come to Hong Kong to promote the beauty of Chinese art and culture to hundreds of foreign students through lectures and performances.  We look forward to organizing more art and cultural activities for students abroad and promoting understanding and appreciation of Chinese culture around the world.’ 
The vision of CUHK is to combine tradition with modernity, and bring together China and the West.  Every year since 2004, CUHK has been organizing the International Summer School with a view to bringing hundreds of young achievers from different cultures to learn and grow together in this amazing city of Hong Kong.  With CUHK’s firm roots in Chinese culture and Hong Kong’s extraordinary position at the crossroad between mainland China and the world, we have a perfect environment in which to cultivate international students’ interests in Chinese culture.  The Summer School offers courses of various disciplines, including Business, Chinese Medicine, Engineering, Environmental Studies, Humanities, and Social Science, many drawing a focus on China.  The School also offers Chinese language in Putonghua and Cantonese, allowing students to better understand the Chinese culture through language.  The Summer School draws on expert international and local faculties to impart academic knowledge to students and, at the same time, encourages the exchange of ideas between students from different cultural backgrounds.  An equally consequential component of the success of the International Summer School is the immersion and cultural programmes which provide opportunities for students to experience the local culture.  The wide range of cultural field trips exploring diverse corners of Hong Kong, together with cultural immersion activities exploring local scenes, will no doubt enable students to gain a better understanding of Hong Kong and traditional Chinese culture on all fronts. 
Prof. WONG Suk-ying, Associate Vice-President, CUHK said, ‘Over the past 13 years, the CUHK International Summer School has accomplished significant growth in depth and breadth.  Annual international student enrolment numbers have multiplied from a mere 19 to 650, with a total enrolment of over 6,600 students over the years.  Academic offerings have increased from a handful to some 20 courses.  Complemented by the extensive programmes in the “Chinese Art and Culture Month” sponsored by Dr. Wong and Dr. Leung this year, the Summer School students will not be short of opportunity to understand and appreciation Chinese arts and culture.’ 
This year, a total of 650 students enrolled in the CUHK International Summer School (for all June, July and August sessions), coming from universities in 34 countries and regions, including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Czech Republic, Sweden, Austria, Spain, Denmark, Norway, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Japan, Singapore, Ireland, Poland, South Korea and Switzerland.  The unique experience of enjoying such a wide array of traditional Chinese culture and arts in a summer programme is second to none.
For more photos, please visit:http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/events_recap_detail.php?id=219&amp;t=opening-ceremony-of-cuhk-international-summer-school-chinese-art-and-culture-month&amp;s=