[date]6 June 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Faculty of Law Organises High-Level Conferences on ‘Political Economy of Financial Regulation’ and ‘Teaching and Learning in Law’ to Celebrate Its 10th Anniversary[/title]
The Faculty of Law of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is celebrating its 10th anniversary. To mark its commitment to excellence in legal education, the Faculty organised two high-level conferences last week, on ‘The Political Economy of Financial Regulation’ and ‘Teaching and Learning in Law – Directions in Legal Education’.
Conference on ‘The Political Economy of Financial Regulation’
Recent events and trends, including the global financial crisis and the growth of the Chinese economy, have brought to light limitations of and problems in theories and methods of financial regulation. In the conference on ‘The Political Economy of Financial Regulation’ held on 2 – 4 June 2016, nearly 50 speakers from the world’s leading universities presented papers on political economic problems arising from financial regulation. Topics included market power in globally linked financial markets, lobbying influence over policymakers and regulators, ideological bias in the formulation of legal frameworks and structural flaws inherent in the rule of law itself.
The conference consisted of eight plenary sessions and three presentations, and attracted over 80 people to attend. Prof. Christopher Gane, Dean, Faculty of Law, CUHK, delivered a speech at the conference. There were three keynote speeches presented at the conference, which were: ‘The Legal Hierarchy of Global Moneys’ by Prof. Katharina Pistor, Walter E. Meyer Research Professor in Law &amp; Social Problems and Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law, Columbia Law School; ‘Effective Demand and Financial Regulations’ by Prof. Ugo Pagano, Professor of Economic Policy, University of Siena; and ‘Monetary Policy, Financial Stability, and International Co-ordination: The Missing Part of Global Governance Jigsaw?’ by Prof. Emilios Avgouleas, Chair in International Banking Law and Finance, University of Edinburgh and Member of the Stakeholder Group, European Banking Authority.
For the conference details and abstracts of the presentations, please visit http://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2016conference/10th/conf/index.php.
 
Conference on ‘Teaching and Learning in Law – Directions in Legal Education’ 
CUHK Faculty of Law also organised a 10th Anniversary celebratory conference on ‘Teaching and Learning in Law – Directions in Legal Education’ on 3 – 4 June 2016. The conference provided a setting in which to think about the roles of the law teachers and the legal professions in continuing to promote and implement legal education.
Nearly 90 educators from law schools across the globe, alongside practitioners, students and other stakeholders, gathered to share their experience and discuss common challenges and best practices in the field of legal education.
The Hon. Mr. Justice Jeremy Poon, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Hong Kong, delivered an inaugural address to mark the opening of the conference. Prof. Paul Maharg, Professor, ANU College of Law, Australian National University, presented a speech on ‘Disintermediation: The Art of Good Business and the Art of Learning Justice’, and Dr. Mar Yee Khin, Head of the Department of Law, University of Yangon, gave a presentation on ‘Legal Education in Myanmar’. There were 14 panel group discussions on various topics, exploring the shifting landscape of legal education and providing meaningful reflections on the roles of teachers and learners.
With the theme of “Navigating the (academic) law degree: are we reading the map upside down?”, the Big Debate held on 4 June attracted many luminaries from the legal community, including the Deans of the three law schools in Hong Kong, to discuss future directions in legal education. Participants included The Hon. Mr. Justice John L Saunders, SBS, Deputy-Judge of the High Court of Hong Kong; Prof. Emeritus Mike McConville, Founding Dean, Faculty of Law, CUHK; Prof. Christopher Gane, Dean, Faculty of Law, CUHK; Prof. Michael Hor, Dean, Faculty of Law, The University of Hong Kong; Prof. Geraint Howells, Dean, School of Law, City University of Hong Kong; and Mr. Jeremy Dein QC, 25 Bedford Row Chambers, London. The insights from the discussions made an invaluable contribution to the future of legal education.
For the conference details and abstracts of the presentations, please visit http://webapp1.law.cuhk.edu.hk/2016conference/0603/conf/index.php