[date]6 May 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2016 Showcases 60 Start-ups by CUHK Members
Exploring Entrepreneurial Opportunities Beyond Hong Kong[/title]
‘CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2016’ is an entrepreneurship-themed event initiated by the CUHK Alumni Torch Fund being held today and tomorrow (6 and 7 May) on CUHK campus. The first ever campus entrepreneurship event took place last year and this year, it is being organised on an even larger scale. With an additional emphasis on global entrepreneurial opportunities, the event comprises seminars and talks by entrepreneurs setting up their businesses in the United States, the Asia-Pacific region and mainland China, alongside an exhibition showcasing entrepreneurship projects formulated or established by alumni and students of CUHK. The CUHK Alumni Entrepreneurs Association, formed by alumni participants of CUHK Entrepreneur Day 2015, is one of the support organisations, symbolizing a culture of care being passed on across generations of CUHK alumni. 
Officiating at the opening ceremony today are Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Dr. David Chung, Under Secretary for the Innovation and Technology Bureau of the HKSAR Government; and Ms. Margaret Fong, Executive Director of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council. Keynote speeches will be delivered by Prof. Lap-chee Tsui, President of The Academy of Sciences of Hong Kong and Prof. Dennis Lo, Associate Dean (Research) of the Faculty of Medicine of CUHK. 
The CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, an endowment fund which was initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives, organised the event to serve as a one-stop information hub and exchange platform for CUHK students and graduates, experienced entrepreneurs from the circle of CUHK alumni, and the public at large. It is supported by the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, CUHK Center for Entrepreneurship, the Office of Research and Knowledge Transfer Services and the Centre for Innovation and Technology, together with support from CUHK Convocation, CUHK Federation of Alumni Associations and CUHK Alumni Entrepreneurs Association. It features an opening ceremony, an exhibition, a series of seminars, and consultancy services, all under one roof. 
About CUHK Alumni Torch Fund
CUHK Alumni Torch Fund, founded in 2014, was initiated by a group of CUHK alumni representatives and is supported by the Alumni Affairs Office of CUHK to promote a caring culture among CUHK alumni. It is particularly set to help CUHK alumni, in particular the young ones, to strengthen their competitive advantages and exposure to entrepreneurial opportunities, and to encourage CUHK alumni in developing their expertise and achieving excellence in the academic field.