[date]2 March 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Nethersole School of Nursing Hosts the Sixth Pan-Pacific Nursing Conference and First Colloquium on Chronic Illness Care[/title]
More than 500 health and social care delegates from over 20 countries attended the Sixth Pan-Pacific Nursing Conference and First Colloquium on Chronic Illness Care hosted by the Nethersole School of Nursing (the School) at the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today (2 March). This conference will last for 3 days till 4 March. It is one of the key activities to celebrate the Silver Jubilee Anniversary of the School this year.
The School organised the first Pan-Pacific Nursing Conference in 1999, which has subsequently become a regular event in the nursing conference calendar in the Pan-Pacific region and internationally. The theme of this year’s conference is “Achieving Transformational and Sustainable Development in Health and Social Care”. To address the escalating burden of chronic illnesses arising from a rapidly ageing global population, the health and social care services are undergoing transformation. This conference aims to provide an international platform for discussion and debate among local, mainland and overseas service providers, policy makers, academics and researchers on strategies and initiatives to achieve transformational and sustainable development in health and social care in local and global contexts.
Officiating guests at the Opening Ceremony included Professor Sophia Chan, JP, Under Secretary for Food and Health, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR); Ms. Cecilla Li, Deputy Director (Administration), Social Welfare Department, HKSAR; Professor Joseph Sung, SBS, JP, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK; Dr. the Honourable Edward Che-hung Leong, GBM, GBS, JP, Chairman, Consultative Committee of the School; and Professor Sek-ying Chair, Director and Professor of the School.  
Following the ceremony, Professor Patricia M. Davidson, Dean, School of Nursing, Johns Hopkins University, USA delivered a keynote address discussing the role of social determinants in chronic care outcomes. Her presentation inspired the participants to develop new insights on the management and care of chronic illnesses.
In the coming two days, Professor Maggie Kirk, Professor of Genetics Education, Leader of the Genomics Policy Unit, Faculty of Life Sciences and Education, University of South Wales, UK will give a keynote address on realising genomics in 21st century health care; and Professor Patsy Yates, Head, School of Nursing, Queensland University of Technology, Australia will give a keynote address on achieving transformational and sustainable development in palliative care. Two masterclasses will also be delivered, respectively by Dr. Suzanne H. Campbell, Director and Associate Professor, School of Nursing, The University of British Columbia, Canada; and Professor Anne E. Sales, Professor, Department of Learning Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Michigan, USA and Co-Editor-in-Chief, Implementation Science. In addition, two plenary sessions will be presented by four internationally renowned healthcare experts.  
Similar to other cities around the world, Hong Kong is now facing major healthcare challenges particularly the increasing burden of chronic illnesses. During the 3-day conference, a series of professional workshops and concurrent sessions will be organised for speakers and participants to discuss these challenges and identify innovative strategies, practices and models to achieve transformational and sustainable development in health and social care. Their dynamic discussions will focus on four theme areas, including contemporary health issues and emerging challenges; innovative practice; aged care, chronic illness care and social care; and transformational leadership and reforms in healthcare system. A wide range of discussion topics will be covered, such as acute care; cancer, palliative and end-of-life care; infectious disease management; health promotion and disease prevention; complementary and alternative medicine; evidence-based practice in nursing and healthcare; innovative health and social care; chronic illness management and rehabilitative care; healthy ageing and aged care; healthcare policy and leadership; and transcultural practice.  
A total of 231 scientific abstracts relating to the conference theme will also be presented, either orally or in poster format, during the conference.
 