[date]13 May 2016[/date]
[title]The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Fifteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold its Fifteenth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony on Monday, 16 May on campus. Five distinguished persons closely associated with CUHK will be conferred honorary fellowships in recognition of their remarkable contributions to the University and the community.
Ms. CHOW Pei-fong, Therese
Ms. Chow Pei-fong, Therese is Founder of and Solicitor at Therese P.F. Chow &amp; Co., Solicitors and Notaries.  She studied law in the UK and formed Therese P.F. Chow &amp; Co. in 1971 after returning to Hong Kong.  She is also a notary public and a China-appointed attesting officer.  Ms. Chow has extended the philanthropic efforts of her father, Mr. Chow Yuk-ho, and made a generous donation in support of the establishment of the Chow Yuk Ho Technology Centre for Innovative Medicine at CUHK in 2014, in memory of her father.  The Centre focuses on three research areas in robotics, imaging and biosensing, including nano-robotics, innovative neuro-imaging and non-invasive medical monitoring, so as to enable more effective treatment for patients in need.  Ms. Chow has also supported CUHK to establish the Therese Pei Fong Chow Research Centre for Prevention of Dementia.
Mr. FAN Shi-hoo, Hamen
Mr. Fan Shi-hoo, Hamen is the Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive of Pac-Fung International Limited, a manufacturer of home textile furnishings.  He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Shanghai Fraternity Association Hong Kong Limited, and a member of The People’s Political Consultative Committee of Jiangmen in Guangdong.  Mr. Fan has made significant contributions to social welfare and he cares about children from low-income families.  In 1991, he founded the Children’s Heart Fund and served as Vice-Chairman.  Mr. Fan is also passionate about the growth and development of youngsters.  Over the years, he has made generous donations to the Shaw College of CUHK towards various causes including college development, scholarships, internship programmes, amenities and facilities renovation.  Mr. Fan has been a Trustee of Shaw College since 2003, and has served as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the College and a member of the University Council since 2011.
Dr. LI Kwok-tung, Donald
Dr. Li Kwok-tung, Donald is a specialist in Family Medicine and is currently President of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine, Honorary Treasurer and Member at large of the World Organization of Family Doctors World Executive Council, and Censor of the Hong Kong College of Family Physicians.  Dr. Li has made significant contribution to social welfare in Hong Kong and has devoted his professional career to promoting comprehensive primary and family healthcare in Hong Kong and internationally.  Dr. Li also dedicates much time to academia and teaching.  He is currently the Clinical Professor (Honorary) of the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care of CUHK, and is very supportive of the development of the private teaching hospital of CUHK.
Prof. LIU Pak-wai
Prof. Liu Pak-wai is Emeritus Professor of Economics, Research Professor of the Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance, and Co-Director of the Economic Research Centre, Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, CUHK.  Professor Liu joined the Department of Economics in 1976 and has made significant contributions to the University in his capacities as Chairman of the Department of Economics, Registrar and Pro-Vice-Chancellor.  He introduced the Provisional Acceptance Scheme which helped the University to recruit high-achieving students.  He also reviewed the curriculum and introduced the credit unit system.  Professor Liu served as Pro-Vice-Chancellor for 13 years with responsibilities relating to finance and resources, and central administrative functions.  During his tenure, he enhanced the efficiency of resource utilization and assisted in the establishment of the teaching hotel and academic buildings, as well as the Faculty of Law.  Professor Liu has also served in a number of important positions in various public services.
Dr. Akihiro NAGAHARA
Dr. Akihiro Nagahara is Director of JCG Finance Co. Ltd and United World Securities (HK) Ltd, and has been the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of United Asia Finance Limited since he established the company in 1993.  With over 30 years of experience, Dr. Nagahara is dedicated to facilitating the development of the financial industry and leading the loan industry to become more sophisticated.  He has been the Chairman of The HKSAR Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited since its establishment in 1999.  Dr. Nagahara has a strong sense of social responsibility and has provided generous support to the charitable and educational activities.  He is a Director of Hong Kong and Macau Taiwanese Charity Fund Limited, and is a staunch supporter of CUHK and especially the New Asia College.  He currently serves as a member of the Board of Trustees and the Investment Sub-Committee of the College.