[date]15 May 2016[/date]
[title]Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change at CUHK Holds Eco Tour Photo and Colouring Contest 2016[/title]
The Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) recently hosted the Eco Tour Photo and Colouring Contest to encourage the public to experience the beauty of nature along the eco-tour trail and promote a green lifestyle. This year, the contest received over 500 entries and the award-winners, along with other selected entries, are now on display at the MoCC until 30 August 2016. The winners list can be viewed at the Gaia website: http://www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/mocc/photoandcolouring.
The award presentation ceremony for the contest, along with the opening ceremony of the exhibition, was held on 14 May. Prof. Fung Tung, Associate Vice-President of CUHK, Ms Poon Yan-chee, Principal of Alliance Primary School, Tai Hang Tung, Mr Pun Sui-fai, Advisory Committee Member of the Fung Yuen Butterfly Reserve, Mr Richard Chan, President of the CUHK Chung Chi Photography Society, and Mr Lau Ka-chun, President of the CUHK Fine Arts Departmental Club, presented the awards at the ceremony.
To coincide with International Museum Day (IMD) 2016, the MoCC organised a special screening of The Drama of Climate Change, an original play offering practical knowledge on climate change and biodiversity, as well as guided MoCC tours. The activities were warmly received by the public.
MoCC opening hours:
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays to Saturdays: 9:30 am – 5:00 pmWednesdays, Sundays and public holidays: closed
 
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia
CUHK Jockey Club Initiative Gaia is a five-year community engagement programme, launched in 2012 by CUHK, with a generous donation of HK$70 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. In support of Gaia’s commitment to paving the way to a sustainable future for Hong Kong, the programme’s aim is to promote environmental conservation and sustainability in local communities, through public education and carbon reduction partnerships with schools and non-governmental organisations.
The first of its kind in the world, the Jockey Club Museum of Climate Change (MoCC), maintained by Gaia, is open to the public with free admission. The MoCC showcases the ‘Three Poles’ (the North Pole, the South Pole and Mount Everest) collection of renowned Hong Kong explorer Dr Rebecca Lee, innovative research on the environment, energy and sustainability initiated by CUHK, and the Jockey Club’s initiatives to promote green living in the community.
More details of the MoCC can be found at www.gaia.cuhk.edu.hk/MoCC.