[date]7 June 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Organises the Naming Ceremony of CMA Lecture Theatre[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has decided to name the Lecture Theatre 2 of the Yasumoto International Academic Park as ‘CMA Lecture Theatre’ in appreciation of the long-term support from The Chinese Manufacturers’ Association of Hong Kong (CMA) towards the University, in particular the Association’s recent donation in support of the establishment of the ‘CMA Global Internship Fund’ to support CUHK students to participate in Global Internship Programme. 
Officiated at by Dr. Eddy Li, President of CMA, and Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, the naming ceremony was held today (7 June) at the CMA Lecture Theatre. The ceremony was graced by the presence of Prof. Michael Hui and Prof. Fok Tai-fai, Pro-Vice-Chancellors and Vice-Presidents of CUHK, as well as Vice Presidents and General Committee Members of CMA. Mr. Raymond Leung, Director of Student Affairs of CUHK, introduced the Global Internship Programme supported by the ‘CMA Global Internship Fund’ at the ceremony.
In his welcoming address, Prof. Joseph Sung expressed his sincere gratitude towards CMA for their staunch support over the years. He remarked, 'CMA is committed to supporting the tertiary education sector and nurturing young leaders for society. With the establishment of the "CMA Global Internship Fund", around 50 more students will benefit from overseas internship opportunities each year.'
In his speech, Dr. Eddy Li said that he appreciated CUHK’s education philosophy in ‘all-rounded development’. He believed that, with the establishment of the ‘CMA Global Internship Fund’, more students will be given the chance to enrich their professional knowledge and practical skills through taking part in overseas internships. Students can also learn the working culture of different countries and broaden their global outlook, thereby giving back to the Hong Kong community in the future. 
Since its establishment in 1934, CMA has been dedicated to promoting the development of the business sector in Hong Kong. CMA has made various generous donations to CUHK for establishing scholarships for CUHK students since 1969. This year, CMA made another donation to CUHK for setting up the ‘CMA Global Internship Fund’ to support the Global Internship Programme of CUHK. 
Global Internship Programme 
The programme was first launched by the Office of Student Affairs of CUHK in 1997, with the aim to increase students’ exposure to the working environment in Mainland China. To cope with the trend towards internationalization, the scale of the programme was expanded in 2006 to cover overseas cities such as Melbourne, Sydney, Toronto, Dublin and Orlando. In recent years, more placement opportunities were explored in Asia Pacific and ASEAN countries, including Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan and Thailand etc. The programme offers internship opportunities for CUHK students to work in different enterprises for 4 to 14 weeks, with the objectives of broadening their international exposure and their literacy in the culture of their host countries. Over 5,000 students have benefited from the programme since its establishment.