[date]24 May 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Art Museum Precious Ancient Rubbings Selected for the National Catalogue of Precious Ancient Books[/title]
The Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China announced the fifth batch of ‘National Catalogue of Precious Ancient Books’ on 24 May 2016 in Beijing. Eight pieces of ancient rubbings from the collection of the Art Museum, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) were on the list. All of them were donated by the Bei Shan Tang.
This catalogue was proposed by the Ministry of Culture and approved by the State Council of the People’s Republic of China. It imposes strict selection criteria. Listed materials are of historical, ideological and cultural significance, or rare books written in the languages of ethnic minorities. They should be written or printed before 1912, compiled or bound in the traditional manner. The first batch was announced in 2008. The current batch is the first time that items from a Hong Kong institution has been included.
Begun 4 decades ago, the collection of the Art Museum, CUHK now comprises over fifteen thousand works of art. The world-renowned rubbings from the Museum’s collection have been exhibited in Beijing and Japan. The selected eight ancient rubbings for ‘National Catalogue of Precious Ancient Books’ include:
The Stele of Hushan Temple
The Stele for Xia Cheng
Inscription on the Sweet Spring in the Jiucheng Palace
Stele for Li Sixun
Model Calligraphies from the Chunhua Era (Chunhua ge tie)
Lanting Preface, Imperial Court version with the ling character topped by a shan radical (Yufu lingzicongshn ben) (No.2)
Lanting Preface, Qiantang Xu’s version (No. 15)
Lanting Preface, unknown origin version (No.63)
To complement the announcement of fifth batch of ‘National Catalogue of Precious Ancient Books’, the Ministry of Culture and The State Administration of Cultural Heritage will host a special exhibition from June to August at the National Museum of Classic Books, Beijing. From the eight pieces, Model Calligraphies from the Chunhua Era (Chunhua ge tie) and Lanting Preface, Imperial Court version with the ling character topped by a shan radical (Yufu lingzicongshn ben) (No.2) will be exhibited. 