[date]19 May 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK School of Architecture Presents the 20th Master of Architecture Graduation Show[/title]
The 20th Master of Architecture Graduation Show, organised by the School of Architecture of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), will be held from 3 June to 9 June, at Midtown POP in Causeway Bay. Mr. Vincent Ng, President of the Hong Kong Institute of Architects, Mr. Stephen Tang, Deputy Director of the Architectural Services Department and other guests of honour from leading architecture firms will officiate at the opening ceremony on 3 June (Friday). The Phase 2 Exhibition will be held at the AIT Building, CUHK, from 13 June to 10 July. 
Apart from celebrating the 20th graduating class of the CUHK Master of Architecture programme, this year’s show also presents to the public the professional education offered by the CUHK School of Architecture and the possible development of architecture. In the show, 53 individual thesis projects draw inspiration from a wide variety of topics, including housing, conservation, city planning, traditional construction, parametric design, medical practice, sound and illusion, to realise the potential of architecture and answer some of the pressing issues of society today, both in Hong Kong and in the world. Some of these graduation projects are: 
Chan Pak-chuenThe Contemporary MonsterA proposal for a symbolic underground data archive at the Peak, designed with a startling architectural manifestation of the global power of information technologies. 
Ma Ka-ki, VickieThe Hydrological League – Rejuvenation of a Forgotten Realm through Resilient LivingA proposal for a low-rise rural development in South Yuen Long District, with an emphasis on agriculture and water as a radical alternative to high-rise residential typologies.
Tang JieliangLand-water Co-habitation – Architecture for Nearshore Development in Relation to Climate ChangeA proposal for adapting to the forces of climate change by embracing the ecological edge with platforms of nearshore habitation as a prototype to coexist alongside a natural waterfront. 
Members of the public are invited to attend the Graduation Show. Admission is free. Details of the show are as follows: 
Phase 1 Exhibition:Date: 3 June - 9 June 2016Time: 11:00 am - 9:00 pm (daily and public holidays)Address: Midtown POP, 18/F, Midtown Soundwill Plaza II, 1 Tang Lung Street, Causeway BayOpening Ceremony: 6:30 pm, 3 June 2016 (Friday)
Phase 2 Exhibition:Date: 13 June - 10 July 2016Time: 9:00 am - 8:00 pm (Monday - Saturday)Address: Exhibition Zones, 1/F, AIT Building, School of Architecture, CUHK 
Enquiries:School of Architecture, CUHK: 3943-6583Melody Chan, Graduation Show Committee: 9269-2781Eunice Tsui, Graduation Show Committee: 9700-4608E-mail: cu.gradshow20@gmail.comWebsite: https://www.facebook.com/CUHK.MArch.GradShow/