[date]24 April 2016[/date]
[title]Naming Ceremony of Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance of CUHK[/title]
In appreciation of the generosity of Mr. Lau Chor-tak, Chairman of Lau Chor Tak Foundation Limited, for his long-term support towards the development of the Institute of Global Economics and Finance (IGEF) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), the Institute has been renamed as ‘Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance’.  
The naming ceremony was held recently and officiated at by Mr. Lau Chor-tak, Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, Prof. Lawrence Lau, former Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK, and Prof. Terence Chong, Executive Director of IGEF. It was graced by the presence of Mr. Lau’s family members, Prof. Benjamin Wah, Provost of CUHK, and key members of IGEF including Prof. Joseph Yam, Prof. Liu Pak-wai and Prof. Sung Yun-wing.
Prof. Joseph Sung expressed his deepest appreciation to Mr. Lau Chor-tak for his continued support. He remarked, ‘With the support from Mr. Lau, we are confident that the Institute will continue in its endeavor to become an important hub for contributing conceptual and policy ideas to the financial system, and offering executive education programmes to enhance participants’ knowledge and expertise in global finance and banking.  We are truly grateful for the staunch support from Mr. Lau and his family.’ 
As a highly acclaimed philanthropist, Mr. Lau Chor-tak has rendered tremendous support to the higher education sector in Hong Kong and mainland China for over half a century. With the objective of promoting scholarly exchange on global economics and finance, Mr. Lau made a generous donation to IGEF in 2013 for the establishment of the ‘Lau Chor Tak Distinguished Lecture on Global Economics and Finance’. In 2014, Mr. Lau donated a commercial property to the University, the rental income from which is used to support the development of IGEF. In recognition of Mr. Lau’s unfailing support, the University named the largest lecture theatre in the Yasumoto International Academic Park as ‘Lau Chor Tak Lecture Theatre’.   
Located on the 13rd floor of Cheng Yu Tung Building, the ‘Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance’ was established in 2010 with the aim of contributing to the modernization of China’s monetary and financial systems by proposing new ways of thinking, making policy recommendations and identifying new paths for liberalization. 