[date]11 May 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Recognised as Caring Organisation by HKCSS[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has been recognised as a ‘Caring Organisation’ by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service (HKCSS) at the Caring Company Partnership Expo held by HKCSS recently, in recognition of CUHK’s commitment to the community, its employees and the environment. 
Prof. Michael Hui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, is gratified by the recognition. He remarked, “CUHK is honoured to be recognised as a ‘Caring Organisation’. This reflects CUHK’s determination to serve the community, care for our employees and protect the environment. I very much appreciate the active participation of CUHK students, staff and alumni in various voluntary activities. CUHK will continue over the coming years in its efforts to contribute to society.” 
In 2013, ‘CUHK  Care Service Team’ was formed to encourage all members of CUHK, including students, staff, alumni and friends, to assemble their powers to contribute to our society with CUHK’s benevolent humanistic culture. Since its establishment, the team has grown to a membership of over 750 people and participated in more than 100 social services with different non-profit organisations. Activities have included introducing CUHK Mooncakes for the first time and delivering over 1,000 mooncakes to the elderly in September 2015. The team also visited street sleepers and grassroots families through a variety of organisations last year. 
CUHK also launches a university-wide campaign ‘Sunshine at CUHK’ to guide students to weather adversity and foster an atmosphere of warmth and mutual care on campus. ‘Sunshine at CUHK’ campaign organised a series of large-scale activities at the University Mall early this year, including a talk on positive living, a meditation workshop, Qigong exercises and Zen-painting, which raised the awareness on mental health issues on campus. Moreover, ‘CU Angel’ programme is also launched to invite all of CUHK teachers and students to become a ‘CU Angel’ by hanging out the sign to tell the students around them that they are willing and ready to listen to their troubles. More workshops will be held to provide the necessary know-how to our teachers and frontline colleagues to recognise a problem when they see one. 
CUHK recognises staff as important assets. Personnel policies and staff benefits show CUHK’s emphasis on and care for every staff member. In its personnel policies, CUHK established the ‘Positive Workplace and Staff Development Committee’ in 2013 and the ‘Task Force on Women and Family-Friendly Policies’ in 2014 to adopt staff-friendly practices and build up a positive workplace and a family-friendly workplace. CUHK has been organising various workshops and activities to encourage staff to create a harmonious and productive working environment through positive communication, team relationships, concern and care, and mutual respect. Moreover, CUHK implements family-friendly policies. CUHK staff can enjoy maternity leave and paternity leave. CUHK has also opened four nursing rooms to provide a comfortable and hygienic space for lactating staff. They can also enjoy two lactation breaks, each of up to 30 minutes during normal working hours or have flexible working hours. 
CUHK also implements various environmental protection policies and practices to create a sustainable campus. CUHK has been putting in place a range of waste reduction and recycling programmes. In 2015, CUHK introduced new methods to implement its waste management initiatives. CUHK also considered various design elements of green buildings in different construction projects, including the use of daylighting, green roofs, renewable energy, intelligent facilities, building automation systems and the use of low carbon materials. More than 10 buildings received the Green Building Certification Label and won 4 awards in the ‘Green Building Award 2014’. The green works of CUHK are widely recognised. CUHK has twice won the Gold Award (Sectoral Award), Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) and received Hong Kong Green Organisation Certification (HKGOC) for its performance in energy saving and waste reduction. 
Launched by the HKCSS, the Caring Organisation Scheme aims to build a cohesive society by promoting strategic partnerships among public sectors and social service partners and inspiring corporate social responsibility through caring for the community, employees and the environment.