[date]12 April 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK to Host the Fifth AS Academicians Lecture Series
Inventor of Myozyme for Pompe Disease Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong to Share Expertise in Translational Medicine
Open for Online Registration[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will hold the fifth Academia Sinica (AS) Academicians Visit Programme and Lecture Series this year and has invited Myozyme inventor Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong, Distinguished Research Fellow, Institute of Biomedical Science, AS, to visit CUHK from 19 to 20 April.  During his visit, Professor Chen will deliver a public lecture and meet with CUHK representatives from the School of Life Sciences to discuss collaboration opportunities. 
Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong will give a lecture entitled ‘Charting a Course for a Successful Research in Translational Medicine’ next Wednesday (20 April), in which he will share his expertise in connecting laboratory research to clinical medicine by translating laboratory discovery into diagnostic tools, drugs and procedures, with the ultimate goal of improving patient care and enhancing human health and well-being. The lecture will be conducted in Mandarin, supplemented by English.  Members of the public are welcome. For further information and registration, please visit www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2016 or contact Miss Jennifer Chan at 3943-8728 or via email to jenniferchan@cuhk.edu.hk. 
Professor Chen is a world famous and distinguished physician and scientist, recognized for his work on human genetic disorders. After obtaining his PhD degree from Columbia University, he worked at the Department of Pediatrics, Duke University Medical Center in the US. He is now a tenured professor of the Center. Returning to Taiwan in 2001, Professor Chen served as Director of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences, AS, and was named as an AS Academician in 2002. Professor Chen is dedicated to innovative medical research with unique analysis on rare diseases. He successfully investigated the therapy for Glycogen storage disease. In 2006, he also invented Myozyme, a drug to cure Pompe disease, a rare multisystem genetic disorder which has a high mortality rate among new born babies. Myozyme has been approved by the European Medicine Agency (EMA) and US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), saving thousands of lives worldwide annually. This invention has not only changed the destiny of Pompe patients, but has also modified human medical history. The story of the development of this drug has been adapted for the novel The Cure and the Hollywood movie Extraordinary Measures. 
Lecture details are as follows: Title:          Charting a Course for a Successful Research in                   Translational MedicineSpeaker:    Prof. Chen Yuan-Tsong, Academician of Academia                    Sinica, TaiwanLanguage: English supplement with MandarinDate:          Wednesday, 20 April, 2016Time:         4:30 – 5:30 pmVenue:       L1, Science Centre, CUHK, ShatinHost:          Prof. Edwin Chan Ho Yin, School of Life Sciences,                    CUHKOnline registration: www.cuhk.edu.hk/oalc/as_2016