[date]8 August 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Admits 2,840 Outstanding HKDSE Students[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) admitted, through JUPAS, 2,840 students who sat for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) examination.  99.5% of them were Band A students. 
CUHK has an impressive intake this year. Of all candidates who achieved Level 5 in one subject or above in the HKDSE territory-wide, 35% were admitted by CUHK, including 1 student with 5 in seven subjects who will enroll in Medicine (Global Physician-Leadership Stream), and three students with 5 in six subjects.
In terms of the median admission scores of the best five subjects, the top five programmes/streams are shown in the table below. The Medicine (Global Physician-Leadership Stream) is the top programme with the highest median admission scores among the JUPAS institutions in the territory for two consecutive years.
Programme/Streams
Score for best 5 subjects (Median)
Medicine (Global Physician-Leadership Stream)
35
Global Business Studies
32
Medicine
32
Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Science
31
International Business and Chinese Enterprise
31
In terms of the best scores achieved by individual candidates in five subjects, 7 programmes/streams at CUHK admitted candidates with a score of 35 (that is, Level 5 in 5 subjects). These programmes include Engineering, Enrichment Mathematics, Geography and Resource Management, Global Business Studies, Medicine, Medicine (Global Physician-Leadership Stream) and Pharmacy. Our Engineering programme admitted a student with 5 in five subjects, who is the top scorer among those admitted to Engineering programmes offered by JUPAS institutions.
Top Scorer to Support the Needy as a Doctor
Cheung Cheuk Sin, Bernice is the top scorer who attained excellent results with 5 in seven subjects in the HKDSE. The sorrow caused by the sudden death of her grandmother prompted her desire to support the needy as a doctor. Bernice has a great enthusiasm for music and has achieved Grade 8 in Piano. She was a member of the school choir and enjoys listening to music to relieve stress. She has been admitted to Medicine (Global Physician-Leadership Stream). She has dedicated herself to medical and health sciences, hoping the programme will broaden her global vision. 
Maths Talent Yearns for Engineering
Fan Chun Yin sat 8 subjects in the HKDSE, and scored 5 in 5 subjects and 5 in 2 other subjects. He will join the Engineering programme. Chun Yin has had a genuine passion for mathematics and science since junior forms. He knows that studying maths provides good training for one's analytical skills and logical thinking. He took part in many maths contests, such as the Hong Kong Mathematics Olympiad. He also actively participated in school extra-curricular activities and voluntary services, and represented his secondary school in a speech festival. He plans to engage in research after undergraduate studies. 
Cancer Survivor Immerses in Chinese Language
Yang Chan Kuang is visually impaired owing to eye cancer. With unwavering determination, he has achieved 5 in 4 subjects in the HKDSE and was admitted to the Chinese Language and Literature programme. Chan Kuang has been influenced by his father to develop a thorough interest in Chinese and history. He studied in a main stream secondary school after the completion of primary education offered by a special school. He was actively involved in debate and chess competitions and represented Hong Kong in many international competitions overseas. He enjoys exchanging ideas with talents from different countries. He looks forward to joining the University Debate Team in the new academic year. 
Elite Sportswoman Aspires to Study Sports Science
Poon Hang Wai, admitted under the Sports Scholarship Scheme, is active in student track and field. In 2012, she broke the student record in the 400m, as well as the Hong Kong youth record and she remains the record holder. During her secondary schooling, Hang Wai was already proving herself in track and field and was an indispensable member of the school team. In 2013, she represented Hong Kong in the Asian Youth Games, and won the bronze medal in the East Asian Games. She will study Physical Education, Exercise Science and Health.
Ten 'Multi-faceted Excellence Scholarship' Awardees Join CUHK
HKSAR Home Affairs Bureau launched the 'Multi-faceted Excellence Scholarship' last year. Through the scholarship scheme, around 20 local undergraduate students, each year, are awarded full-tuition fee scholarships by the government to study a bachelor degree in recognition of their achievements in non-academic areas such as sports, arts and/or community service. 10 out of the 20 scholarship recipients this year are being admitted to CUHK. The programmes admitting them include Enrichment Mathematics, Global Studies, Music, Nursing, Philosophy, Medicine and Physical Education, Exercise Science and Health. Amongst them is Lam Ka Siu Ryan, who enjoys music and has mastered skills in two kinds of Chinese instrument, the Zhongruan and Liuqin, and has received numerous awards in the Hong Kong Schools Music Festival. He was the chairman of his school’s Chinese orchestra. He won an Outstanding Prize in the World Harmonica Festival held in Germany in 2013. He will continue his interest and will study Music at CUHK.
This year, 105 students were admitted to CUHK through the 'School Principals’ Nominations Scheme'.  Through the Sports Scholarship Scheme, 18 were admitted including students with outstanding achievements in sports including athletics, tennis, volleyball, handball, swimming, tchoukball, rowing, karate do, badminton, fencing and Judo. 3 of these sportsmen/sportswomen are members of teams that represent Hong Kong officially, 12 of them are from the Hong Kong Junior Squad and another 3 are members of the Hong Kong Schools Sports Federation. 