[date]20 July 2016[/date]
[title]Tsz Shan Monastery Supports CUHK to Establish
'Ashoka Tree' Youth Personal Growth Programme[/title]
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is honoured to receive a generous donation of HK$1 million from the Tsz Shan Monastery in support of the ‘Ashoka Tree’ Youth Personal Growth Programme established by the Department of Psychology, with the objective of improving the mental wellness of youth through learning Buddhist theories and practicing ‘Chanwuyi’ (‘Chan’ means enlightenment; ‘Wu’ means Kung fu; ‘Yi’ means healing).  A donation ceremony was held recently, officiated by Venerable Thong Hong, Abbot of Tsz Shan Monastery and Prof. Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK.  Prof. Fanny Cheung, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, as well as distinguished guests from the Tsz Shan Monastery, also joined the ceremony.  Prof. Agnes Chan, Director of the Chanwuyi Research Center for Neuropsychological Well-Being, Department of Psychology, introduced to the guests details of the ‘Ashoka Tree’ Youth Personal Growth Programme.
In April 2016, Tsz Shan Monastery and CUHK jointly organized a two-day ‘Zen Meditation Training Programme’ with the participation of more than 130 university students and members of staff.  Carrying on the success of the programme, the ‘Ashoka Tree’ Youth Personal Growth Programme will be launched with an aim to promote mental and physical well-being of youth aged 7 to 23 through learning Buddhist theories and practicing Chanwuyi.  Selected participants will start a nine-month training in October. 
Prof. Joseph Sung said in his welcoming address, ‘I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Venerable Thong Hong and the Tsz Shan Monastery for their generosity in support of our endeavours in promoting mental health and research in neuropsychology.  It is believed that the “Ashoka Tree” Youth Personal Growth Programme will help students achieve a peaceful mind by practicing Chanwuyi.  It can also help reduce their stress level and enhance their learning capacity.’ 
In his speech, Venerable Thong Hong highlighted the importance of promoting all-round development of youth, a vision shared by both the Tsz Shan Monastery and CUHK.  ‘Through practicing Chanwuyi, students will be able to develop a peaceful mind in the face of challenges.  It will also help them cultivate virtues and find happiness in life,’ he said. 
About Tsz Shan Monastery
Tsz Shan Monastery is a Chinese Buddhist monastery established by Mr. Li Ka-shing, Chairman of CK Hutchison Holdings Limited and Cheung Kong Property Holdings Limited, who as of mid-2015 has contributed over HK$1.7 billion from his personal Foundation to cover the development and daily operating costs of the Monastery.  Since its establishment, Tsz Shan Monastery has been dedicated to serving society through organizing Dharma talks and lectures, spiritual practices, experiential programmes, educational activities and community services.