[date]14 July 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Chung Chi College Organises Lee Shiu Summer Programme 2016[/title]
Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has organised the ‘Lee Shiu Summer Programme 2016’ under the generous patronage of Dr. Lee Shiu and Dr. Jennie Mui Lee. With the main theme of ‘Road to Success in the Modern World’, a large-scale four-week summer programme has been organised by Chung Chi College in collaboration, this year, with the University Scholars Programme of the National University of Singapore and Yuanpei College of Peking University.
Dr. Lee Shiu and Dr. Jennie Mui Lee always support youth exchange activities. Since 1998, they have initiated and sponsored various leadership programmes at several universities in Hong Kong, with the mission of nurturing talents for the modernization of China.
Officiated at by Dr. Lee Shiu and Dr. Jennie Mui Lee, initiators and sponsors of the programme, Prof. Tony F Chan, President of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Prof. Fong Wing-ping, Acting and Designated Head of Chung Chi College, CUHK, Prof. Rance P.L. Lee and Prof. Leung Yuen-sang, Former Heads of Chung Chi College, CUHK, and Dr. George Hung Hon-cheung, Former Chairman of Chung Chi College Board of Trustees, the opening ceremony of the programme was held on 11 July at Esther Lee Building in CUHK. The ceremony was also honoured by the attendance of Dr. Philip Wong Yu-hong, Dr. Anita Leung Fung-yee and Ms. Agnes Chiang Lai-ping. 
Prof. Tony F Chan gave a talk at the ceremony on the topic of ‘Road to Success in the Modern World: Reflection from My Student Days’. Professor Chan told of his life experience and encouraged students to meet challenges and break through self-imposed limits. 
Lee Shiu Summer Programme 2016
Since 1998, Dr. Lee Shiu and Dr. Jennie Mui Lee have sponsored and initiated various leadership programmes at several universities in Hong Kong, with the mission of nurturing talents for the modernization of China. With their generous support, the Lee Shiu Centre for Intercultural Learning was established at Chung Chi College in 2001. Five large-scale student exchange programmes (2001, 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2012) have been organised by the College.
In 2016, Dr. Lee and Dr. Mui Lee continue to provide full support to the Lee Shiu Summer Programme at Chung Chi College, CUHK. Organized by the Chung Chi College, CUHK and co-organized by the University Scholars Programme of the National University of Singapore and Yuanpei College of Peking University, this large-scale four-week tri-city summer programme will bring together 77 outstanding and committed students from Hong Kong, mainland China, Singapore and the USA to undertake a collaborative study on the theme of ‘Road to Success in the Modern World’. The students will engage in a wide range of learning activities in Hong Kong, Singapore and Beijing. The programme will take place from July 11 to August 7, 2016:
Hong Kong：July 11 to July 24, 2016Singapore：July 25 to July 29, 2016Beijing：July 30 to Aug 7, 2016
The programme fosters intercultural interaction by engaging in day-to-day exchanges with peers from other universities, regions and backgrounds, and explores the cultures and lives of the three visited cities. The 2016 programme encourages students to put forward insightful ideas and in-depth discussions on the following five focus areas: ‘Leadership and Creativity’; ‘Globalization and Cultural Awareness’; ‘Civic Society and Public Governance’; ‘Environment and Sustainable Development’; ‘Social Responsibilities and Community Service’.
Students are divided into 10 groups and take part in a wide range of learning activities including lectures, mentorship, workshops, organization visits and field trips. They will discuss contemporary global issues and challenges and explore possible solutions and directions for the new generation. Participants will reflect in depth and generate self-awareness and insight on the idea of success, the choice of roads to success and the essential qualities for being successful. Each group will complete a research project during the programme on development and youth engagement in one of the five focus areas.