[date]10 July 2016[/date]
[title]CUHK Exhibits Early Paintings of Professor Wucius Wong[/title]
The Art Museum of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presents the exhibition ‘Dream Chaser: Early Paintings of Professor Wucius Wong’ from 10 July to 31 August 2016. This exhibition showcases 22 early paintings by Professor Wong,  an esteemed artist in Hong Kong. Admission is free. Members of the public are welcome to visit the exhibition. 
Professor Wucius Wong is known for his lyrical landscapes that are in part inspired by geometric forms and design principles. Little known about is his early aspiration to be a poet and his youthful yet talented experimentations with colours and drawings. For over half a century, Professor Wong prudently safeguarded his early works, and rarely showed them to anyone. At eighty, he has decided the time to entrust these highly personal works to a long-term custodian has come, and he has selflessly donated a significant body of work to CUHK. The Art Museum is pleased and honored to present them for the first time. 
This special exhibition presents Professor Wong’s paintings from 1956 to 1962, which show diverse painting styles, attesting to the vibrant mind of the young artist in his twenties. The diversity of the paintings indicates that Professor Wong was interested in and informed about the latest developments of Western art, as well as the endless possibilities that modern art promised. They are not solely personal expressions, but also reflections of a thoughtful artist who made sensitive observations of his surroundings. These poetic pictures anticipate Professor Wong’s lifelong explorations in art. 
Details of the exhibition are as follows:

Exhibition Period:
10 July 2016 to 31 August 2016

Exhibition Venue:
Gallery II, Art Museum, Institute of Chinese Studies, CUHK

Opening Hours:
Mondays to Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays: 10:00am-5:00pmSundays and Public Holidays: 1:00pm-5:00pm

Closed:
Thursdays, New Year, Lunar New Year, Easter and Christmas Holidays

Enquiries:
3943-7416

 