[title]CUHK Accounting Graduate is World Top Winner in ACCA Examination[/title]

[date]11 June 2004[/date]


 CUHK Accounting Graduate is World Top Winner
 in ACCA Examination 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong honoured a group of accounting 
 graduates who scored top marks in the ACCA December 2003 Examination 
 led by Ms Regina Kan, a 2000 graduate who beat some 5,500 students from 
 over 160 countries to become the world top winner.
A celebration 
 reception was held today at the CUHK Teaching Centre at Central. Professor 
 Liu Pak Wai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University, Professor 
 Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration and Professor 
 James Xie, Director of the School of Accountancy attended. Honourable 
 guests included senior representatives of ACCA; Mr. K.C. Law, Mr. Graham 
 Chan, Mr. Patrick Yeung and Mr. Nick Neal, members of the Advisory Board 
 on Accounting Studies; Ms Joey Cheung of Ernst and Young, Ms Irene Heffernan 
 Ho of KPMG, Mr. Lewis Wan of PricewaterhouseCoopers and some current 
 employers of the graduates (including Ernst and Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers).
Other 
 top achievers in the Examination included Hong Kong Top Winner Ms Stephanie 
 Kwan; Gold Medallist Ms Joyce Chan; Bronze Medallists Mr. Clement Li 
 and Ms Ann Li, who are all recent graduates of the Professional Accountancy 
 Programme (please refer to the appendix for details of the examination 
 results).
Also 
 present were past top achievers: December 2002 Gold Medallist Mr Larry 
 Chu and June 2003 Silver Medallist Ms Fion Wan.
Ms Regina 
 Kan, the world top winner, said it was a pleasant surprise, "I am very 
 happy that my effort has paid off. I would like to thank my alma mater 
 for the excellent training and opportunities to broaden my horizon through 
 participating in international competitions and other student activities 
 during my undergraduate study."
Professor 
 James Xie, Director of the School of Accountancy was delighted with 
 the ACCA Examination results. "We are very proud of them," he said. 
 "There is a great demand for professional accountants."
"The 
 job market is certainly looking up, based on the job offers received 
 by our 2004 graduates from the Big-4 and other companies."
Professor 
 Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of the CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration, 
 congratulated the graduates on their accomplishments. "It is most encouraging 
 to know that our graduates continue to perform well in the ACCA examination. 
 This is a clear recognition of their ability and hard work."
"I would 
 also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to ACCA, 
 all the Big 4 accounting firms as well as the business sector for their 
 support to our Faculty throughout the years in serving as speakers and 
 providing internships. This is an excellent example of partnership between 
 a business school and the business community."
"China 
 is poised to become the world's economic powerhouse of the 21st century 
 and needs a lot of highly professional and ethical accounting and financial 
 talents to help it meet this goal. I sincerely hope that our graduates 
 will continue to advance and excel in their career and make significant 
 contributions to their companies and society at large."
ACCA 
 is the most renowned international accountancy organization established 
 for over 100 years. The ACCA qualification is widely recognized in every 
 area of accountancy and finance around the world. It is also the first 
 professional body to offer examinations based on international accounting 
 standards. Examinations are held twice a year, in June and December. 
 In addition to completing the examinations successfully, students are 
 required to obtain a minimum of three years' relevant supervised practical 
 experience in order to qualify for a Chartered Certified Accountant. 
 
 
 

 
