[title]CUHK No. 1 Again in MBA Ranking[/title]

[date]18 August 2003[/date]


Chinese University's Department of Marketing 
 Releases Energy Conservation Survey Findings 
 
Which of these three issues - economic growth, energy conservation 
 and environmental protection - takes precedence? Are Hong Kong consumers 
 willing to pay more for the sake of environmental protection? How ready 
 are they to change their day-to-day habits to conserve energy? 
A survey was conducted 
 by The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Department of Marketing in 
 July 2003 to seek answers to the above and other questions. Selected 
 at random and using structured face-to-face interviews, a total of 418 
 Kowloon and New Territories consumers, aged 18-59, were asked questions 
 aimed at ascertaining the relationships between their personal characteristics, 
 values, energy consciousness and energy conservation behaviour. 
This survey was conducted 
 by Professors Leo Sin, Alan Tse and Stella So, and sponsored by the 
 CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd. A number of interesting points have emerged 
 which offer some insight into Hong Kong consumers' environmental and 
 energy conservation behaviour. 
As revealed by the survey, 
 most of the respondents have a good understanding of the importance 
 of energy conservation. More than half have indicated their willingness 
 to pay more for environmental protection, and over 60 per cent said 
 they would change their habits to conserve energy. Their environmental 
 consciousness is moderate. On the whole, most respondents are highly 
 conscious of the need to conserve energy, but they do not take on proenvironmental 
 behaviour to the same extent. 
On energy conservation 
 behaviour, respondents with the following characteristics tend to be 
 more pro-energy conservation: female, aged 30 or above, high school 
 educated or less, housewife and unemployed. The profile of pro-environmental 
 behaviour is likewise female and housewife. This seems to indicate that 
 women attach more importance to energy conservation and environmental 
 protection issues than men. 
The next question is: 
 does educational level affect people's energy conservation and proenvironmental 
 behaviour? Findings reveal that those who have only completed primary 
 or high school score better in energy conservation than degree holders. 
 There is, however, no discernible difference when it comes to environmental 
 protection. 
Factors determining energy 
 conservation behaviour are, in order of importance: level of energy 
 consciousness, occupation, monthly income and gender. 
Based on their energy 
 conservation and proenvironmental behaviour, respondents can be further 
 grouped into three segments: the "Smarties", the "Egoists" and the "Laggards". 
 They display distinct differences in personal characteristics and their 
 views towards energy conservation and environmental protection. 
Over 40 per cent of respondents 
 qualify as "Smarties": they tend to be older, predominantly female and 
 housewives, generally less well-educated, highly conscious of energy 
 conservation and proenvironment. The "Egoists" (32.7 per cent) are also 
 older and predominantly female, but a higher proportion of them are 
 unemployed. They have medium education level, and they have a higher 
 level of energy consciousness than proenvironmental consciousness. The 
 "Laggards" (just under 20 per cent) are largely male, tend to be younger 
 and generally better educated, mostly students, unemployed and retired 
 people. Compared to the other groups, they display a lower level of 
 consciousness towards energy conservation and environmental protection. 
 
"Based on our survey, 
 there is a clear link between energy consciousness and energy conservation 
 and proenvironmental behaviour," said Professor Leo Sin. "We would, 
 therefore, recommend the Government to invest more resources in promoting 
 energy consciousness. In addition, we have noted that young people, 
 in particular young men, are less inclined to energy conservation. This 
 is the group which the Government should target in its future promotion 
 on energy conservation and environmental protection." 
"Respondents also think 
 that the power companies could play a more active role in promoting 
 energy conservation behaviour through public education activities," 
 he added. "They should encourage consumers to make energy conservation 
 an integral part of their daily lives; and explore opportunities for 
 co-operation with electrical appliance manufacturers to promote energy 
 efficient products. In fact, energy conservation and environmental protection 
 is a social project of everyone's concern. It's success relies on the 
 support and participation of all citizens in Hong Kong. 
 

 
