[title]CUHK Faculty of Medicine further strengthens partnership with Macao medical sector[/title]

[date]8 January 2005[/date]


 CUHK Faculty of Medicine further strengthens partnership
 with Macao medical sector 
 
The CUHK-Macao Academic Exchange Symposium in Medicine was successfully 
 held at Macau Tower Convention and Entertainment Centre today. It 
 was jointly organized by the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong and the Dr Stanley Ho Medical Development Foundation, 
 and co-organized by Seng Heng Bank Limited, Hospital Central Conde 
 de S. Januario and Kiang Wu Hospital in Macao.
The 
 speakers of the Symposium comprised professors from the Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 and doctors from Hospital Central Conde de S. Januario and Kiang Wu 
 Hospital in Macao. The Symposium aimed at strengthening academic exchange 
 between medical personnel of Hong Kong and Macao, promoting professional 
 training and upgrading medical skills in Macao. Macao and Hong Kong, 
 being close neighbours with similar cosmopolitan background, are facing 
 common challenges in health care delivery. Promoting deeper collaboration 
 in medical research, closer exchange of medical information and strengthening 
 the training and continuing education for medical personnel will benefit 
 both.
The 
 Symposium also concurred with the launching of the Dr Stanley Ho Medical 
 Development Foundation, established with a generous donation of MOP10 
 million from Seng Heng Bank Limited, Macao. With an objective to further 
 improve the standards of the medical services in Macao, the Foundation 
 sponsors Macao doctors to receive professional and continuing medical 
 education at the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong.
The 
 Inauguration Ceremony and Gala Dinner of the Dr Stanley Ho Medical 
 Development Foundation was held at Macau Tower Convention and Entertainment 
 Centre on the same day. The Honourable Mr Edmund Ho, Chief Executive 
 of Macao Special Administrative Region, Mr Yongxiang Wan, Commissioner 
 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Macao Special Administration 
 Region, People's Republic of China, Dr Stanley Ho, Chairman of the 
 Dr Stanley Ho Medical Development Foundation, Dr. Koi Kuok Ieng, Director 
 of Department of Health, Government of the Macao Special Administrative 
 Region, Mr Patrick Huen, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer 
 of Seng Heng Bank Limited, Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Professor Tai Fai Fok, 
 Dean of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong officiated 
 at the Ceremony. Over 300 Macao doctors attended. Mr Patrick Huen 
 and Professor Lawrence Lau presented the first batch of scholarships 
 of the Dr Stanley Ho Medical Development Foundation to 30 Macao doctors. 
 These scholarship recipients will attend the CUHK Diploma in Advances 
 in Medicine 2005-2006. 

From left to right:
 Prof Joseph Sung
 Mr Patrick Huen
 Dr Koi Kuok Ieng
 Mr Wan Yongxiang
 Mr Edmund Ho
 Dr Stanley Ho
 Prof Lawrence J Lau
 Prof TF Fok
 Prof KS Woo 

  
 


 
