
[title]Six Top Economists at Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures[/title]

 




[date]3 June 2005[/date]

Six 
 Top Economists at 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 
 
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures, 
 jointly organized by the Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), were held on 3 June at the 
 Grand Ballroom of Kowloon Shangri-La Hotel. HKSAR Government Acting 
 Chief Executive Henry Tang; SHKP Vice Chairman and Managing Director 
 Dr. Raymond Kwok, and CUHK Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lawrence J. Lau 
 presided over the opening ceremony. 
The 
 lectures were on Emergence of China in the World Economy. Six world-renowned 
 economists shared their insights in public lectures and panels. 
 The speakers were Prof. Edward C. Prescott, 2004 Nobel Laureate 
 in Economic Sciences; Prof. Robert A. Mundell, 1999 Nobel Laureate 
 in Economic Sciences; Prof. Sir James A. Mirrlees, 1996 Nobel Laureate 
 in Economic Sciences; Prof. Alberto F. Alesina and Prof. Robert 
 J. Barro from Harvard University; and Prof. Edmund S. Phelps from 
 Columbia University. Government Economist Kwok Kwok Chuen and Li 
 and Fung Group Chairman Dr. Victor Fung were the other panelists. 
 Prof. Robert A. Mundell, known as "the father of the Euro", also 
 talked about life and learning with local university and secondary 
 school students. 
The 
 event was extremely well received, with more than one thousand people 
 from all walks of life attending the lectures and panels. All the 
 free tickets previously offered to the public were gone in one day. 
 
The 
 2005 lectures were coordinated by CUHK's new Institute of Economics. 
 The Institute draws together experts from the University's Departments 
 of Economics and Department of Decision Sciences and Managerial 
 Economics. The synergy will build upon the university's strengths 
 in teaching and research in economics, facilitate cooperation with 
 prestigious institutions worldwide and contribute to the advancement 
 of economic theory and its application. 
CUHK 
 Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lawrence J. Lau said, "That so many economists 
 and professionals of great renown should assemble under the same 
 roof to shed light on a common topic is rare. The forum provides 
 an excellent opportunity for the lay audience to appreciate the 
 challenges faced by the Chinese economy in the age of globalization, 
 and serves as a useful platform for academics and experts in the 
 field to exchange views on ways of addressing these issues. We are 
 thankful to The Sun Hung Kai Properties for its philanthropic munificence 
 and unstinting support." 
SHKP 
 Vice Chairman and Managing Director Dr. Raymond Kwok said, "As we 
 study the place of China in the world, we must also seek to understand 
 Hong Kong's own distinctive role and continued potential for success. 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties was founded in Hong Kong. It is here that 
 we have grown and prospered. We believe wholeheartedly in its future. 
 This belief is precisely why we instituted this lecture series together 
 with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. It is a series that gives 
 people, particularly young people, broader horizons; it offers them 
 the tools and information they need to meet future challenges; and 
 it puts affairs in a creative and international perspective. Above 
 all, it can guide and inspire the people of Hong Kong by the examples 
 it offers of rigorous scholarship in action." 
Background 
 
 The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 
 are made possible by a generous donation from Sun Hung Kai Properties, 
 in collaboration with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The series 
 sees Nobel laureates in any of the six recognized fields (Physics, 
 Chemistry, Physiology and Medicine, Literature, Peace and Economic 
 Sciences) invited to Hong Kong each year to deliver public lectures, 
 meet with scholars and professionals in the education and commercial 
 sectors and share their accomplishments. The series began in 2004 
 and is intended to promote the discovery and dissemination of knowledge, 
 professional and entrepreneurial expertise, as well as scholarly 
 pursuits and contributions to humanity and society. 
attachments:
Biography of Professor 
 Edward C. Prescott
Biography of Professor 
 Robert A. Mundell
Biography of Professor 
 Sir James A. Mirrlees
Biography of Professor 
 Alberto F. Alesina
Biography of Professor 
 Robert J. Barro
Biography of Professor 
 Edmund S. Phelps
Presentation of keynote 
 speech: The Renminbi and the Global Economy by Prof. Mundell
 
Presentation of 
 keynote speech: The Chinese Economy: Past and Future by Prof. 
 Prescott 
Presentation in 
 panel: Business Cycles and the World Economy: Implications for 
 the Chinese Mainland and Hong Kong by Prof. Prescott 
Presentation of 
 keynote speech: Changing Economic Inequality in the Chinese Economies 
 by Prof. Sir James A. Mirrlees 

from left to right: Professor Liu Pak Wai, Professor Robert 
 J .Barro, Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees, Professor Lawrence J. 
 Lau, Dr. Raymond Kwok, Mr. Henry Tang, Dr. Egar Cheng, Professor 
 Robert A. Mundell, Professor Edward C. Prescott, Professor Alberto 
 F. Alesina, Professor Edmund S. Phelps 
 Celebrating the inauguration of CUHK's Institute of Economics
 Mr. Henry Tang, Acting Chief Executive, delivered address in the 
 opening ceremony
from left to right: Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Professor 
 Sir James A. Mirrlees, Dr. Raymond Kwok , Professor Robert A. Mundell, 
 Professor Edward C. Prescott.
 Professor Edward C. Prescott
 Professor Robert A. Mundell
 Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau
 Professor Edward C. Prescott took pictures with secondary school 
 students
 Professor Robert A. Mundell took pictures with secondary school 
 students after his lecture
 Panelists exchanged views on "World Economic Growth: Implications 
 for the Chinese Mainland and Hong Kong" (from left to right: 
 Professor Liu Pak Wai, Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees, Dr. Victor 
 Fung, Professor Robert J .Barro) 
 
 
 more photos and video 
  
 




 
