[title]CUHK Establishes the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases[/title]

[date]23 September 2003[/date]


 CUHK Establishes the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases and 
 
 Starts the Serological Survey to Keep Hong Kong SARS-Free 
 
The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has captured 
 a worldwide public health concern. At this moment, we still cannot be 
 certain whether SARS will recur in the coming winters. To prevent Hong 
 Kong from further attacks by SARS and other emerging infectious diseases 
 unprepared, the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong has resolved to establish the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases 
 (CEID) and launches its first population-based serological survey today.
Emerging new infectious 
 diseases and re-emergence of existing infectious diseases continue to 
 pose threats to the health of the Hong Kong population and the world 
 population. The CEID, capitalizing on local and overseas groups with 
 expertise in epidemiology, microbiology, clinical medicine and health 
 economics, aims to work in partnership with the health authorities in 
 Hong Kong to strengthen the society's preparedness for infectious diseases 
 by: -
 1. Providing training on infectious disease control to health care professionals 
 and researchers.
 2. Conducting research on infectious disease epidemiology, basic sciences 
 and clinical management on emerging infectious diseases.
 3. Coordinating infectious disease preparedness in the hospital and 
 university environment.
 4. Collaborating with Health Authorities (such as Bureau of Health, 
 Welfare and Food, Hospital Authority, Department of Health and the future 
 CDC in Hong Kong) to deal with emerging infectious diseases.
The first research study 
 of the CEID is a population-based serological survey to:
 1. Determine the prevalence of antibody to SARS-coronavirus in the general 
 population of Hong Kong.
 2. Examine the risk factors predisposing to exposure to SARS.
Over 10,000 households 
 have been selected randomly to join this study. They will receive invitation 
 letters from now till the end of October 2003. Upon the receipt of the 
 invitation letter, the household should immediately contact CEID by 
 mail, fax or phone (details entailed in the invitation letter). Basic 
 information about the household members will be collected and one member 
 from each household will be selected for the antibody testing against 
 SARS coronavirus. The tests will be performed by the Chinese University. 
 Participants will be notified of the test results by mail and the research 
 group will arrange follow-up for those with positive results. 
 

 
