[title]"Crisis Mangement is an Art, not a Cookbook"[/title]

[date]13 July 2003[/date]


 "Crisis Mangement is an Art, not a Cookbook"
 Declares Co-Host of CUHK EMBA's New Management Talk Show 
 
The World Osteoporosis Day is celebrated on 20 October every year. 
 It aims to raising the awareness and knowledge of people on osteoporosis, 
 and to encourage them to take actions for prevention, diagnosis and 
 treatment. Since 1997, the World Osteoporosis Day has been sponsored 
 and promoted by the International Osteoporosis Foundation (IOF). With 
 the tremendous support from the World Health Organisation, the World 
 Osteoporosis Day has become an annual international event. Since the 
 Jockey Club Centre for Osteoporosis Care and Control (JOCOC) of The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has made remarkable achievements 
 in osteoporosis, the IOF therefore chose Hong Kong as the focal point 
 for its Asian Osteoporosis Programme. And JOCOC has become the key strategic 
 partner of IOF in Asia.
Osteoporosis 
 is particularly serious in Asia. It is projected that by 2050, 50% of 
 the total hip fractures in the world will occur in Asia. The number 
 of incidence will escalate to 3.2 million. Many lifestyle factors may 
 cause osteoporosis, such as a low calcium diet, lack of physical activity, 
 smoking and alcoholism. Osteoporosis is usually considered as a disease 
 in women. However, recent studies show that osteoporosis is also quite 
 frequent in men.
The 
 Jockey Club Centre for Osteoporosis Care and Control of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong was established in 2001 with the mission "towards 
 healthier bone for all and an improved quality of life for osteoporosis 
 sufferers". Professor Edith Lau Ming-chu, Director of JOCOC, spoke at 
 the press conference that the Centre has been dedicating its efforts 
 in community service and the well-being of the Hong Kong community at 
 large. Free bone density examination service programme is now provided 
 to recovered SARS patients in Hong Kong, which includes an annual bone 
 density examination and lasts for five years. The Centre is now planning 
 to study the bone health of recovered SARS patients with international 
 osteoporosis experts. The study is endorsed and fully supported by the 
 IOF. Professor Lau suggests that recovered SARS patients should have 
 adequate calcium intake and regular weight-bearing exercises. If they 
 are found to have osteoporosis, drug treatment may be required.
This 
 year, JOCOC will collaborate with the International Osteoporosis Foundation 
 (IOF), Asian Pacific Osteoporosis Foundation (APOF), Hong Kong Osteoporosis 
 Foundation (HKOF) and Hong Kong Federation of Women (HKFW) to organise 
 a large-scale osteoporosis prevention programme in Asia. The first of 
 it is the "2003 World Osteoporosis Day Health Exhibition", which will 
 be held on 19 October at the New Town Plaza, Shatin. The theme of the 
 exhibition is "Invest in Your Bones". Prof. Kenneth Young, Acting Vice-Chancellor 
 of The CUHK, Dr. Ping-yan Lam, Director of the Department of Health, 
 The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Mrs. 
 Alice Chiu, Chair of the Asian Regional Development and Promotion Committee, 
 IOF, Mr. Paul Sochaczewski, Head of Communications, IOF, Mrs. Peggy 
 Lam, Chairperson of the Hong Kong Federation of Women and Prof. Edith 
 Lau, Director of JOCOC will officiate at the opening ceremony.
The 
 organisers hope to educate the public of all ages about the importance 
 of investing in bone health. The health exhibition will feature bone 
 mineral density test, fracture risk assessment, measurement of Body 
 Mass Index, high calcium diet, bone health counselling, and performance. 
 In addition, there is an interactive "Ask an expert" session in which 
 medical professionals will offer expert advice on bone health problems 
 to the audience on site. 
Professor 
 Leo Sin, Dept. of Marketing, CUHK (left) and
 Mr. Wong Tin Cheung, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Yau Lee 
 Holdings Ltd. (right) 



 
