
[title]A screening and surveillance study on hepatitis B virus carriers for early detection of liver cancer[/title]

 




[date]7 June 2005[/date]

Cancer 
 prevention: The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Hong Kong Cancer 
 Fund 
 collaborate on a screening and surveillance study on hepatitis B 
 virus carriers 
 for early detection of liver cancer 
 
Liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma) is one of the most common 
 cancers in Hong Kong. It ranked as the 3rd commonest cancer in men. 
 Over the past 10 years, an average of 1,600 new cases are diagnosed 
 and 1,300 patients die each year. 
Hepatitis 
 B virus, being the major cause of liver cancer in Hong Kong, contributes 
 to over 70% of all cases. Over 10% of our population are chronic 
 carriers of the hepatitis B virus and they are at risk of developing 
 cirrhosis and liver cancer. Carriers are at more than 100 folds 
 higher risk than non carriers. Majority of patients are asymptomatic 
 at the early stage of their illness and do not seek medical attention. 
 Consequently, when they present with symptoms, only 10 to 20% of 
 patients can undergo surgical resection with the prospect of cure. 
 The remainders are diagnosed at an advanced stage that curative 
 resection is not possible. Early detection holds the only promise 
 to improvement of survival for HCC patients. 
"One 
 of our major work is to promote cancer awareness in Hong Kong through 
 large scale public education campaigns. This year we have organized 
 campaigns on cervical cancer, skin cancer, breast cancer as well 
 as an anti-smoking campaign. We also continue to fund cancer screening 
 programmes such as the hereditary colorectal cancer registry and 
 this liver cancer screening and surveillance study. All these efforts 
 are important as they could save lives. We are also bringing the 
 message to the public that they could cut their risk of getting 
 cancer by adopting a healthier lifestyle and be more aware of their 
 health in general," said Agatha Hu, Operations Director of The Hong 
 Kong Cancer Fund. 
The 
 Department of Clinical Oncology of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong received a competitive grant from the Hong Kong Cancer Fund 
 in 1997 to conduct a large scale screening and surveillance study 
 on hepatitis B carriers for early detection of liver cancer. 1,018 
 hepatitis B carriers enrolled in the programme between 1997 and 
 2000 and were screened by serum alfa-fetoprotein (AFP) and abdominal 
 ultrasound (AUS). Patients with either AFP&gt;20ng/dl or abnormal AUS 
 were enrolled to an intensive programme that screened patient with 
 one or more hepatic angiogram plus lipiodol CT scan, followed by 
 AFP/AUS every 3 months for 2 years then every 6 months. Patients 
 with normal AFP/AUS were followed routinely with AFP every 6 months 
 and AUS repeated at the end of 2 years. All suspicious lesions were 
 confirmed by biopsy or surgery. (Refer to Figure 1) 
One 
 hundred and seventy-one patients with abnormal screening test(s) 
 were enrolled to the intensive surveillance programme. After a median 
 follow-up of 4.4 years we detected 47 liver cancers (15 at enrollment 
 and 32 during follow-up), giving an annual risk of 6.8%. Out of 
 the 847 patients with normal AFP/AUS for 2 years, 9 patients were 
 eventually diagnosed of liver cancer, giving a much lower annual 
 rate of 0.3%. These statistical results confirmed that intensive 
 screening and surveillance programme had significant impact on the 
 early detection of liver cancer. 
Mean 
 tumor size of the 47 liver cancer detected in the intensive screening 
 programme was 2.98 cm, and the mean tumor size of the 9 liver cancer 
 outside the intensive screening programme was 4.82cm. There was 
 a significant difference between the two groups. Surgical resection 
 was feasible for only 17 patients (36.2%) from the programme. The 
 main reasons for non-surgical intervention included poor liver function, 
 small cirrhotic liver, multi-focal disease, and patient refusal. 
 However, an additional 14 patients (29.8%) were able to receive 
 loco-regional ablative therapy which attained a similar survival 
 as the resected cases in our project. 
Professor 
 Tony Mok Shu-kam, principal investigator of the study, concluded, 
 "Our intensive screening and surveillance programme is successful 
 in detection of small liver cancer. We achieved the objective of 
 identifying early disease but concurrent presence of advanced cirrhosis 
 prevents patients from curative surgery. Further development in 
 treatment modalities including novel loco-ablative therapy is required 
 to improve the survival outcomes of these patients." 
Mrs. 
 Sally Lo, Chairman of The Hong Kong Cancer Fund, commented, "We 
 are delighted to see the encouraging results from this surveillance 
 study. We have always promoted the importance of Early Detection 
 Saves Lives, and an early diagnosis of cancer will significantly 
 improve the chances of recovery. We believe that the success of 
 this study will encourage further research on early detection methods 
 and will pave the way to a cancer controlled future." 
Professor 
 Anthony Chan, Chairman of the Department of Clinical Oncology and 
 Director of the Sir YK Pao Center for Cancer, commented, "Major 
 progress has been made in the early diagnosis for cancers of the 
 cervix and breast, where multi-disciplinary treatment of early stage 
 disease results in very high cure rates. Effort is increasingly 
 focused on early detection of cancers with high mortality including 
 lung cancer and liver cancer, and this current study represents 
 a significant step forward in achieving the aim of early diagnosis 
 of liver cancer." 
Professor 
 Fok Tai-fai, Dean of Faculty of Medicine of the Chinese University, 
 expressed gratitude on behalf of the Faculty to the Hong Kong Cancer 
 Fund for the fruitful partnership that has made possible the undertaking 
 of research projects such as this one in the early detection of 
 liver cancer, and an ongoing study testing a novel immunotherapy 
 approach which also involves partnership with Cancer Research UK. 
 
From left: Mr Fok Ma Tai, Prof Tony Mok, Mrs Sally Lo, Prof 
 Fok Tai Fai and Prof Anthony Chan
 




 
