[title]CUHK and the University of Aberdeen Set Milestone in Collaboration

 




2 
 June 2005
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong and the University of Aberdeen 
 Set Milestone in Collaboration 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the University 
 of Aberdeen today ([/title]

[date]2 June 2005[/date]

) entered into an agreement to promote 
 academic and research collaboration and student exchange. 
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, and Professor C Duncan 
 Rice, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen signed a Memorandum 
 of Understanding on CUHK campus today. Under the agreement, the 
 two institutions will promote collaboration in research activities, 
 exchange of faculty and students, jointly organize academic conferences 
 and symposia, with the ultimate aims to promote the exchange of 
 cultures and advancement of knowledge. Students from both CUHK and 
 the University of Aberdeen will benefit from this new exchange programme, 
 which will provide them with more opportunities to explore different 
 cultures, experience other learning environments, enhance foreign 
 language skills and develop network. 
Founded 
 in 1495, the University of Aberdeen is Scotland's third oldest and 
 the fifth oldest in the UK. The University of Aberdeen's research 
 excellence has allowed it to secure its position as a leading research-led 
 institution and influence global issues, attracting some of the 
 world's most distinguished scholars and reinforcing its own academic 
 strengths. An increasing number of Chinese students are attracted 
 to the University of Aberdeen. Currently they make up nearly a quarter 
 of the University of Aberdeen's international student population. 
 
The 
 alliance is part of a wider programme marking the University of 
 Aberdeen's long-standing links with Asia that involves a series 
 of events. Historically, the University of Aberdeen graduates have 
 played a significant role in the region with graduates actively 
 involved in business and commerce across the Asia Pacific region. 
 
Established 
 in 1963, CUHK is a research comprehensive University that has dedicated 
 to academic and research excellence for over 40 years. With an enrolment 
 of close to 18,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students, CUHK 
 has been at the forefront of student exchange in Hong Kong. It started 
 its very first student exchange programme with UC Berkeley in 1964, 
 the next year after its inception. Now CUHK offers the largest number 
 of student exchange programmes among all local tertiary institutions. 
 In 2005-06, some 450 local students will study at one of CUHK's 
 150 partner universities in 23 countries. The number of students 
 benefiting from exchanges has increased by three times over the 
 past five years. In addition to this, another 1,500 short term work 
 and study abroad opportunities will be provided to students. 
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (right), and Professor 
 C Duncan Rice, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen (left) 
 signed a Memorandum of Understanding.

  
 




 
