[title]CUHK, China Daily and 21st Century English Newspapers Jointly Organize National English Speaking Competition[/title]

[date]10 April 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University, China Daily and 21st Century English Newspapers
 Jointly Organize National English Speaking Competition 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), China Daily and 21st Century English Newspapers will co-organize the twelfth 21st Century Lenovo Cup National English Speaking Competition in Hong Kong next year. The objective of the competition is to promote English education in China and improve English standard of university students in the nation.
Professor Billy So, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Madam Huang Qing, Managing Editor, China Daily, and Mr. Hardy Tsoi, Arts Administrator of CUHK signed an agreement of collaboration at CUHK today. They toasted the success of such an important event to be held in Hong Kong for the first time. On the occasion, winners of the eleventh National English Speaking Competition just held in Macau delivered their winning speeches.
The 21st Century Cup National English Speaking Competition is an important annual event in China¡¦s academic arena. With participation from over 500 major universities in the country, it is the most reputable English speaking contest in the Mainland. The competition was founded by China Daily in 1996, with the support of the English Speaking Union and the British Council. Its finals have been successfully held in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Nanjing, Wuhan, Shenzhen and Macau. The final for next year will be held at CUHK on 27-29 March 2007.
The organizers are honoured to have invited Dr. Alice lam, Chairman of University Grants Committee, as the patron of the competition. Lenovo, one of the worldwide partners in the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, will be our title sponsor.
All university students in China, including Hong Kong and Macau students, can join the competition through nominations by their own universities. The competition will consist of (1) prepared speeches, (2) impromptu speeches and (3) QandA. The topics will cover international affairs, social issues and daily life. After a series of preliminaries, regional and final competitions, the overall champion will represent China to compete for the world championship in the International Public Speaking Competition organized by the English Speaking Union.
The competition provides an opportunity for university students nationwide to exchange public speaking skills. It also helps to improve their English standard, broaden their horizon, and enhance their competitiveness. As an international financial centre, Hong Kong has the best edge to nurture bilingual talents for China, which are essential in promoting trade and cultural exchange with the international community.
Said Professor Billy So, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, The Chinese University is glad to co-organize this prestigious competition. The University has a strong international vision since its inception. It has been our mission to combine tradition and modernity, and bring together China and the West. We have always emphasized bilingualism in teaching and research, and we have organized numerous activities to promote the use of English over the years.
Madam Huang Qing, Managing Editor, China Daily, said, It is our privilege to partner with CUHK in the competition. We are thankful for their contributions and enthusiastic support. Their efforts in raising the language standard of young people are highly appreciated. As a renowned university, CUHK has a strong bilingual and bicultural heritage, while we are highly experienced in organizing the National English Speaking Competition. We expect the competition in 2007 to be a grand success.
Meanwhile, the 21st Century International English Language Teaching Forum will be held right after the competition. Representatives from major English teaching institutions around the world and academics from renowned universities in the UK, the US and Australia will participate in symposia and introduce the latest teaching activities and examinations information. The forum helps to promote English teaching profession in China.
Winners of the eleventh 21st Century - Macau Star Cup are: 
 - Champion and The Most Promising Speaker: Tso Fung, Tsinghua University
 - 1st runner up and The Most Humourous Speaker: George Wu, Tianjin Normal University
 - 2nd runner up: Xu Hongda, China Foreign Affairs University 
 Attachment: Fact Sheet 
 
 Signing Ceremony of the Twelfth "21st Century - Lenovo Cup" National English Speaking Competition. From left:
 Ms Zhou Shan Shan, Deputy Director General of Publicity, Cultural and Sports Department, Liaison Office of Central People's Grovernment in the HKSAR
 Madam Huang Qing, Managing Editor, China Daily
 Professor Billy So, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 Mr. Hardy Tsoi, Arts Administrator, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 
 
 
Winners of the eleventh "21st Century - Macau Star Cup":
Champion and The Most Promising Speaker: Tso Fung, Tsinghua University (3rd from right) 
 1st runner up and The Most Humourous Speaker: George Wu, Tianjin Normal University (1st from right) 
2nd runner up: Xu Hongda, China Foreign Affairs University (2nd from right)
1st prize: Frank Wong, Communication University of China (1st from left)
1st prize and The Most Graceful Speaker: Michelle Choi, Beijing Language and Culture University (2nd from left) 
1st prize: Nancy, Beijing Froeign Studies University (3rd from left)
 
 
 
 
  


 
