[title]CUHK introduces Hong Kong's First Virtual Reality Surgical Training Programme[/title]

[date]9 February 2004[/date]


 Patients' Safety Comes First
 CUHK introduces Hong Kong's First Virtual Reality Surgical Training 
 Programme
Revolutionizes Conventional Surgical Training and Enhances Patient 
 Care 
 
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 today announced a revolutionary virtual reality surgical training programme, 
 utilizing the newly acquired laparoscopic simulator, which reforms the 
 century-old surgeon training approaches and greatly enhances the quality 
 of patient care.
Starting 
 from July 2004, this new training programme, the first of its kind in 
 Hong Kong, will be introduced to all surgical trainees as well as seasoned 
 surgeons across different surgical disciplines in the New Territories 
 East Cluster (NTEC) including the Prince of Wales Hospital, the major 
 teaching hospital of the Faculty of Medicine of CUHK.
Instead 
 of continuing the conventional "see one, do one, teach one" apprenticeship 
 model, all basic surgical trainees in NTEC will need to undergo virtual 
 reality training which fosters practice and development of laparoscopic 
 techniques under different computer simulated scenarios before operating 
 on a real patient.
"Hong 
 Kong is in urgent need of dedicated laboratory-setting training facilities 
 for repetitive training and practices of skills in different simulated 
 scenarios with no risk to patients. After all, patients' care is our 
 utmost concern, and we are committed to making the most out of leading 
 edge technology to enhance patients' care," said Professor Andrew van 
 Hasselt, Chairman of the Department of Surgery of CUHK.
The 
 evolution of Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS), popularly known as "keyhole 
 surgery", has brought drastic changes to the approach to and practice 
 of all surgical disciplines since the 1980s'. While the advent of MIS 
 hugely reduces the trauma of surgery and pain suffered by patients and 
 enables faster recovery significantly lowering the cost of surgical 
 procedures and aftercare, it at the same time challenges traditional 
 apprenticeship methods of surgery training.
"MIS 
 has been widely applied to operations of the abdomen, chest, head and 
 neck, brain and vascular system. It has also been proven both safe and 
 effective in children and even newborn infants. We expect the popularity, 
 complexity and importance of MIS will continue to increase in the future. 
 And the necessity for having virtual reality training is becoming more 
 pressing," added Professor Yeung Chung Kwong, Chief of Paediatric Surgery, 
 CUHK and a pioneer in MIS surgery.
Unlike 
 conventional open surgery, where operative manoeuvres are predominantly 
 intuitive, surgeons practicing MIS have to operate and assess organ 
 structures on a television monitor with its flat two-dimensional image 
 rather than relying on direct vision and the important sensation of 
 touch. Not only are movements restricted by the keyhole access, they 
 also become paradoxical in nature since the normal direct coupling of 
 hand and eye no longer applies.
Adequate 
 training in such surgical skills must therefore ideally take place in 
 a man-made simulated environment, similar to the way airplane pilots 
 acquire their skills in an airplane simulator, before live surgery on 
 patients can confidently be performed. The laboratory allows safer, 
 efficient and repetitive training and practice in the whole range of 
 MIS skills and procedures in a cost-effective manner. Virtual reality 
 training allows objective assessment of operation quality, standardisation 
 of operation procedures and pre-operational planning. It also affords 
 call-up of different simulations and scenarios in a highly cost-effective 
 manner. Most important of all, surgeons no longer need to test dangerous 
 or new surgical procedures on patients themselves but in a safe, controlled 
 environment instead.
"Being 
 a leader in many aspects of MIS in Asia, and some in the world, CUHK 
 is obliged to lead Hong Kong and Asia to master and further develop 
 MIS, an extremely advanced technique which is destined to be fundamental 
 to the very future of surgery. The introduction of this virtual reality 
 programme will certainly enhance MIS training in both our next-generation 
 surgeons and practicing ones," said Professor Sydney Chung, Dean of 
 the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK who performed the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
 in Hong Kong as early as 1990.
The 
 Faculty of Medicine of the CUHK has been playing a pivotal role in MIS 
 development and research in the Asia Pacific region. Over the years, 
 members from different divisions have developed a great number of novel 
 MIS techniques; many world's and Asia's firsts have been performed in 
 Prince of Wales Hospital. With strong clinical strength and collaborative 
 research effort, the Faculty of Medicine is working closely together 
 with the Department of Computer Engineering of CUHK to strengthen the 
 research and development in the field of computer-assisted surgery in 
 Hong Kong. 
 
 



 
