[title]CNOOC donates HK$1 million to support student exchange at CUHK[/title]

[date]6 January 2006[/date]


 CNOOC donates HK$1 million to support student exchange
at the Chinese University 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is delighted to receive a generous donation of HK$1 million from China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC). The donation will be dedicated to support international exchange scholarships for undergraduate students of CUHK, in particular those from the mainland.
Mr Fu Cheng Yu, President of CNOOC, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CNOOC Limited, and the Directors of the Board of CNOOC attended the donation presentation ceremony and exchanged views with academics of the University on CUHK campus. At the ceremony, Mr Fu restated the commitment of the company in giving to the community. Over the years, the company has supported numerous campaigns to relieve poverty and promote education. CNOOC and its staff donated generously to aid victims of the tsunami in South Asia in 2004, and the tropical cyclone Katrina in the USA last year. As a responsible corporate citizen, CNOOC has an annual giving of RMB ¢D20 million to support social, educational and environmental protection programmes in the community.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK expressed his deep gratitude to CNOOC for their generous gift. At the ceremony, he mentioned that CUHK is the first university in Hong Kong to forge academic links with mainland universities in 1970s, the first to start recruiting mainland undergraduate students in 1997, and the first to establish a liaison office on the mainland with a view to forge closer links with mainland institutions. Last year, CUHK was the first to participate in the nationwide joint university entrance exam to recruit undergraduate students directly from the mainland. We anticipate that the total number of mainland students on our campus will steadily increase in the coming decade, and many of them will be able to benefit from the ample opportunities of overseas exchange made available by generous sponsors such as the CNOOC, said Professor Lau.
Indeed, CUHK is the first university in Hong Kong to have established student exchange programmes with overseas partners, from as early as 1965. Now, CUHK partners with some 190 institutions across 23 countries worldwide. This year, CUHK has over 600 incoming exchange students and close to 500 outgoing exchange students. 
 
 Mr Fu Cheng Yu, President of CNOOC, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CNOOC Limited (right) presented a cheque to Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (left).
 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau (left) presented a campus photo of CUHK to Mr Fu Cheng Yu (right).


 
