[title]CUHK continues to rank top as 4 more professors named IEEE Fellow


 

 

 [/title]

[date]14 December 2006[/date]


 CUHK continues to rank top as 4 more professors named IEEE Fellow
 
 Four professors, Prof. Robert LI, Prof. WANG Jun, Prof. Michael WANG and Prof. Y.T. ZHANG at The Chinese University of Hong Kong have been named the prestigious IEEE Fellow. They are elected in recognition of their extraordinary accomplishments in various engineering fields, which includes Prof. Robert Li¡¦s contributions to network coding and switching theories; Prof. WANG Jun¡¦s contributions to recurrent neural networks for optimization and engineering applications; Prof. Michael WANG¡¦s contributions to frictional contact and impact modeling, and robotic workholding and fixturing for manufacturing automation; and Prof. Y.T. ZHANG¡¦s contributions to the field of wearable devices and signal processing algorithms for mobile healthcare.
IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) is the world¡¦s largest professional organization, with more than 365,000 members in over 150 countries. IEEE members play a vital role in computer science, electronics, telecommunications and engineering fields etc.
IEEE fellowship is a prestigious recognition for those members who have made outstanding achievements in the field of engineering. This year, the IEEE¡¦s Board of Directors has elected a total of 268 fellows worldwide. 4 out of 6 elected in Hong Kong are professors at CUHK, bringing the total number of fellows in CUHK to 16. Currently there are 16 IEEE Fellows at CUHK, which is the largest among all local universities.
Besides being honored as IEEE Fellows, Professor Y.T. Zhang is the recipient of the 2006 IEEE-EMBS Service Award for his exceptional and meritorious service to the Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS) with outstanding contributions to the development and promotion of EMBS¡¦ conferences, educational activities, and international collaboration. Currently there are only 66 Fellows worldwide (49 Fellows and 17 Fellows Emeritus) who have received this award. He has also been elected a Fellow of the International Academy of Medicinal and Biological Engineering (FIAMBE). Currently Professor Zhang¡¦s research focus is on wearable medical instruments and sensors for m-Health. 
 IEEE Fellows teaching in CUHK  
 Year Elected 
 Name 
 Department 
 2006 
 Prof. LI Shuo-Yen, Robert 
Information Engineering
 Prof. WANG Jun 
Mechanical and Automation Engineering
 Prof. WANG Yu, Michael 
Mechanical and Automation Engineering
 Prof. ZHANG Yuang-Ting 
Electronic Engineering
 2005 
 Prof. HUANG Jie 
Mechanical and Automation Engineering
 Prof. LEE Tong, Tony 
Information Engineering
 Prof. ZHOU Xunyu 
Systems Engineering and Engineering Management
 2004 
 Prof. LYU Rung Tsong, Michael 
Computer Science and Engineering
 2003 
 Prof. XU Yangsheng 
Mechanical and Automation Engineering
 Prof. YEUNG Wai Ho, Raymond 
Information Engineering
 2002 
 Prof. WONG Wing Shing 
Information Engineering
 2001 
 Prof. XU Lei 
Computer Science and Engineering
 2000 
 Prof. NGAN King Ngi 
Electronic Engineering
 1997 
 Prof. YAO Da Wei, David 
Systems Engineering and Engineering Management
 1995 
 Prof. WEI Keh Wei, Victor 
Information Engineering
 1991 
 Prof. LIN Chinlon 
Information Engineering
 

2006 Class of Fellows (from left): Prof. Y.T. ZHANG, Prof. Michael WANG, Prof. Robert LI and Prof. WANG Jun.
 
 
 
 
Professor Y.T. Zhang was awarded the 2006 IEEE-EMBS Service Award.
 
  

 
