[title]CUHK Scientists Awarded National Natural Science Awards[/title]

[date]9 January 2006[/date]


 CUHK Scientists Awarded National Natural Science Awards 
 Two outstanding scientists of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Professor Dennis Lo Yuk-ming, Li Ka Shing Professor of Medicine and Professor of Chemical Pathology, and Professor Jimmy Yu Chai-mei, Professor in the Department of Chemistry were each conferred a National Natural Science Award (second-class category) in recognition of their achievements in the projects Biology and Diagnostic Applications of Fetal Nucleic Acids in Maternal Plasma and Photocatalytic Degradation of Persistent Organic Pollutants, respectively. 
 The research in Biology and Diagnostic Applications of Fetal Nucleic Acids in Maternal Plasma has brought important implications to prenatal diagnosis. Many traditional methods of prenatal diagnosis are invasive, e.g. amniocentesis, and constitute a finite risk to the fetus. Professor Dennis Lo is the first to demonstrate that fetal DNA is present in the plasma of a pregnant woman and has laid a solid foundation for the subsequent use of circulating fetal DNA for non-invasive prenatal diagnosis. He also has demonstrated, for the first time in the world, that the fetus will release its RNA (products of gene expression) into the plasma of mother. The detection of circulating fetal RNA therefore provides a promising means to monitor the gene expression profile of an unborn fetus. This discovery has greatly enhanced the diagnostic application of plasma-based molecular diagnostics. 
 The project Photocatalytic Degradation of Persistent Organic Pollutants is in the field of environmental science and technology, and involves the inter-disciplines of environmental science, chemistry and material science. Toxic organic pollutants are serious environmental concerns worldwide. The project is to develop visible-light photocatalytic systems for the efficient degradation of toxic organic pollutants. The project has successfully overcome the major drawback in the present technology by which the photocatalytic processes need to be activated by ultraviolet light, which accounts for only 3-5% of the solar spectrum; and hence the overall reaction efficiency is very low. 
 The National Natural Science Award is China¡¦s most prestigious award in natural science. The award is to recognise achievements in various fields of natural science that bring significant advancement in scientific knowledge, are leading in the world and have great impart in further research and development.
 Attachments:
Introduction to Biology and Diagnostic Applications of Fetal Nucleic Acids in Maternal Plasma
Introduction to Photocatalytic Degradation of Persistent Organic Pollutants
CV of Professor Dennis Lo Yuk-ming
CV of Professor Jimmy Yu Chai-mei 
Photos of the professors' meeting with media on 12 January 2006 


 
