[title]"Talking to CEOs" Show -- Adversity Breeds New Opportunities[/title]

[date]7 March 2003[/date]


"Talking to CEOs" Show -- Adversity Breeds New Opportunities
 
Joe Yiu, Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Motorola 
 Semiconductors Hong Kong Ltd., was certainly not born with a silver 
 spoon in his mouth. However, every "disaster" he encountered has turned 
 into a lucrative opportunity or a blessing in disguise. 
And he has plenty of proof, 
 because Joe's life history has all the dramatic ingredients of a movie 
 script. 
Adversity found him at 
 an early age. He was adopted by foster parents at the age of four months, 
 taken to Hong Kong at 4, and started to work around the factory floor 
 at 5. Too poor to afford school, he spent his time hanging out in the 
 streets. One day, he saw a policeman talking on a radio in a police 
 car, and he found the love of his life. Fascinated, he was determined 
 to learn about wireless communications. Hence it began his academic 
 pursuit. 
He was hardly a star pupil, 
 however. Initially he failed in a lot of subjects, including English, 
 but showed a natural talent for science, particularly wireless communications. 
 He worked harder on English, not for love of it, but because he realized 
 that in order to learn more about the area of his interest, he had to 
 master the language in which it is written. 
When he was 18, his foster 
 father died in the Philippines, and he inherited the family business, 
 taking on the role as financial controller. It was a very complex organization 
 and after one year, he decided to go and study in the U.S. This he did, 
 supporting himself by working in restaurants, paying fees out of his 
 wages semester by semester. 
There Joe met a German 
 engineer who worked for Hy-Gain Electronics, manufacturer of Citizen 
 Band radios. Joe was taken under his wings and later became the Chief 
 Technical Officer. CB radio was popular in the 1970s, and Joe was sent 
 to develop the business in Puerto Rico. Good times did not last long, 
 however. Almost overnight, the company had gone from being a success 
 featured in the "Time" magazine to bankruptcy, because the U.S. Government 
 had expanded the frequency range for CB Radio from 24 to 40, which caused 
 Hy-Gain's products to drop from $120 to $40. Joe was pressured on all 
 sides: he had no money, he was hounded by creditors as well as the U.S. 
 immigration department for working on a student visa.
 All was not lost, however. 
 Good friends raised sufficient money to fly him back to the U.S. and 
 shortly after his return he received a call from Motorola inviting him 
 and his Hy-Gain team to join the CB Radio production facility. There 
 he has stayed and helped Motorola grow.
 This is the stunning 
 story that Joe shared with professors, students and alumni of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong's EMBA, MBA and OneMBA programmes, at a "Talking 
 to CEOs" show co-organized by the EMBA Programme of the University and 
 The Radio Television Hong Kong. Professor Leo Sin of the University's 
 Marketing Department and Mr. Chow Yung of RTHK were co-hosts. 
What's Joe's view of the 
 current mood of pessimism in Hong Kong? 
"Hong Kong has been through 
 a lot of crises before: water shortage, the 1967 riots, the Asian financial 
 crisis," he reminded the audience. "We are undergoing a difficult transition 
 right now, but we have a lot going for us." 
According to Joe, our 
 advantages include Hong Kong's status as an international metropolis, 
 our international trading experience, a good financial and tax system 
 and most important of all, rule of law and freedom of communication. 
 Another important edge we have is the backing of China, one of the fastest 
 growing markets and a huge one. 
Several factors will sustain 
 us through adversity: belief in ourselves, be positive and keep our 
 dreams. 
Is it realistic to develop 
 Hong Kong into a hi-tech centre? 
Certainly, in Joe's view. 
 If Singapore and Taiwan can do it, Hong Kong can as well. Hong Kong 
 has perfect capability for semi-conductor design. In the case of Motorola, 
 its DragonBall product line was designed in Hong Kong, and incorporated 
 into products sold worldwide. 
Prior to 1997, the Hong 
 Kong Government did not care very much about supporting specific industries, 
 but has improved considerably since then. The Science Park is a good 
 initiative. However, investment should be put to good use. Hong Kong 
 should not just copy other cities. 
When asked about what 
 the key to good management, Joe referred to the guidelines given in 
 Peter Drucker's "The Art of Management" which he has followed for 20 
 years. A manager has to be a "front" man (i.e. able to work with all), 
 a "think" man (i.e. strategic ability), an "action" man as well as a 
 good "coach" and "educator". 
The secret to success 
 in working with a multicultural workforce is "Four 'E's plus one": envision 
 (i.e. has vision); edge (i.e. has persistent belief); enable (i.e. actively 
 help to achieve); energize and ethics. 
"Life is like the waves 
 of the ocean which rise and fall," he said. "Success is 70 per cent 
 effort and 30 per cent luck. But the winner is one who loves the challenge." 
 
A member of the audience 
 asked whether he had any advice for the Chief Executive. He said that 
 this is not an easy time for Mr. Tung. Hong Kong people should give 
 him more support, be positive and work with him. There may not be immediate 
 answers but the mental state is important. Hong Kong has undergone many 
 transitions before, and has emerged stronger each time. We should identify 
 our own value and work on it.
 "We have to create our 
 own future. Don't give up, don't accept defeat." Those were his parting 
 advice to the audience. 
At the "Talking to CEOs" 
 show, Joe also shared his insight on how to succeed in doing business 
 in China, his view on the future prospects of 3G and the future of the 
 communications industry in China. 
Joe first worked for Motorola 
 Communications Services while attending college. On graduation, Joe 
 worked for Hy-Gain Electronics where he became the Chief Technical Officer 
 in charge of its three production facilities in Puerto Rico. In 1978, 
 Joe rejoined Motorola in the start up of the Automotive CB Radio production 
 facility in Texas. Joe was instrumental in pioneering many advanced 
 manufacturing automation processes during his six years with the Automotive 
 Product Division. Joe joined Motorola Computer Group in 1983 to lead 
 the advanced factory automation team and continued to expand his responsibilities. 
 He moved progressively from various management positions to the current 
 one of Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Asia Pacific 
 Region in 1999. 
Joe obtained his B.A. 
 and M.A. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Nebraska, 
 a Master's degree in Software Engineering from Trinity University and 
 his MBA degree from the University of Phoenix. Joe holds three U.S. 
 patents and sits on the advisory board of the Hong Kong University of 
 Science and Technology. 

 
