[title]CUHK Business Students Won the Championship of the Business Administration Paper Competition[/title]

[date]2 March 2005[/date]


 CUHK Business Students Won the Championship of the Business Administration 
 Paper Competition 
 
A four-student team from the Faculty of Business Administration 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong won this year's Business Administration 
 Paper Competition organized by The Hong Kong Federation of Business 
 Students (HKFBS).
"Globalization: 
 Sound Marketing Mix for a Global Insurer" was the title of this year's 
 competition. The HKFBS was set up in 1985 with memberships (now over 
 10,000) from the eight local tertiary institutions. Its annual BA 
 Paper Competition is renowned for its professionalism and wide support 
 from the local business community and government bodies. This year, 
 over 140 teams with more than 500 business students from the eight 
 local institutions joined the competition. Based on written summary 
 reports submitted, academic advisors at each of the eight institutions 
 selected one team to represent their schools.
Professor 
 Gordon Cheung, the Academic Advisor at the Faculty of Business Administration, 
 selected the team of Cheung Sau Ying, Christine (Year 3, BBA), Yau 
 Sin Sze, Ceci (Year 3, QFN), Leung Siu Fung, Steve (Year 3, QFN) and 
 Chan Fung Ting, Catherine (Year 3, QFN) based on their overall performance 
 of a comprehensive and logical written report, presentation skills 
 and team spirit. The semi-final took place on 4 February 2005 when 
 eight competing teams presented their marketing plans and debated 
 with each other in front of the Evaluation Committee comprising eight 
 professors and two representatives from Zurich Life Insurance, the 
 Title Sponsor. Finalists were the Baptist University (BU), CUHK, HKUST, 
 and Polytechnic University.
Then 
 our team prepared very hard for the final, polishing up their PowerPoint 
 presentations, rehearsing their oral presentation, and sharpening 
 up their background knowledge and materials. They also attended a 
 training session offered by Professor Stella So and Professor Gordon 
 Cheung on presentation skills. The final was held on 19 February at 
 the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, packed with more than 
 300 cheering students, friends, and parents. In addition to the four 
 finalist teams from Hong Kong, a team from Tsinghua University was 
 invited to join. The Evaluation Committee, which was comprised of 
 nine academia and seven prominent business leaders, was headed by 
 Mr. Bernard Chan, the Insurance Functional Constituency Representative 
 to The Legislative Council.
BU 
 and CUHK teams were short-listed as the two teams entering the final 
 debating session. The CUHK team did an excellent job exposing the 
 underlying weaknesses of the opponent's marketing plan and the audience 
 was clearly impressed by the witty and heated exchanges of the two 
 teams. After long deliberation, the Evaluation Committee finally reached 
 a decision naming the Champion of the Zurich BA Paper Competition, 
 2004 as the team from CUHK. As the winning team, Cheung, Yau, Leung 
 and Chan will share a cash prize of HK$8,000 and diamond pearl pendants 
 worth HK$5,000. 
CUHK team, the Champion team, receiving 
 the award from Mr. Bernard Chan (centre), Chairman of Evaluation Committee 
 of the Final.



 
