[title]How Education and RandD Transfer can Spur Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]16 January 2004[/date]


 Enabling Entrepreneurship: 
 How Education and RandD Transfer can Spur Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong 
 
 
A recent study shows that Hong Kong rates of entrepreneurship are 
 low by international standards. Two factors contribute to the low levels: 
 inappropriate education and training and the ineffective transfer of 
 research from universities to industry. Entrepreneurs, educators, scientists 
 and government officials will meet in a forum to propose solutions to 
 these problems.
The 
 forum, "Enabling Entrepreneurship" is held on Friday, 16 January 
 2004, 2:00-6:00 p.m., at Rooms 603-4, the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition 
 Centre.
The 
 two critical weaknesses holding back Hong Kong's entrepreneurial growth 
 were revealed in a study conducted by a team of professors from The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Business Administration 
 and the Shenzhen Academy of Social Science. The study shows that Hong 
 Kong, with 3.2% of the population involved in recent start-ups, is among 
 the least entrepreneurial in the world and trails well behind China 
 (11.6%) and our twin city of Shenzhen (10.5%).
The 
 Forum featured two panel discussions to address the major factors of 
 the low entrepreneurship in Hong Kong. The panel of speakers on "Transforming 
 Research: From Universities to Business" included Mr. C. D. 
 Tam, CEO of the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation Ltd, 
 Prof. Tony Eastham, President of RandD Corporation Ltd at the Hong Kong 
 University of Science and Technology and Dr. Johnny Ng, CEO of the Titanium 
 Technology Group.
The 
 panel of speakers on "Entrepreneurship Education: Can Entrepreneurship 
 be Taught?" featured Ms. Michele Cheow, Director of Junior Achievement 
 Hong Kong, Mr. Hon Poo Sou, Chief Curriculum Development Officer (Technology 
 Education), Education and Manpower Bureau, Mr. Teddy Tang, Principal 
 of HKMA K. S. Lo College and Mr. Yat Siu, Founder and CEO of Outblaze 
 Ltd. 
Mr. 
 Cao Jiagen, Vice Director of the Shenzhen Bureau of Science and Technology 
 also gave his recommendations on how Hong Kong-Shenzhen cooperation 
 can improve shortcomings in the entrepreneurial environment in these 
 two areas.
The 
 research is part of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), an international 
 consortium of some 150 researchers in more than 40 countries that measures 
 annually entrepreneurial activity among 60 percent of the world's population. 
 In 2003 over 100,000 adults were polled and over 1,200 experts were 
 interviewed.
The 
 Hong Kong and Shenzhen study polled 2000 adults in each city and interviewed 
 47 experts in both cities.
The 
 "GEM Hong Kong Country Report" is supported by HK$1.605 million from 
 the SME Development Fund run by Hong Kong SAR Government's Trade and 
 Industry Department; the Hong Kong Management Association's Chinese 
 Executives Club and The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Asia-Pacific 
 Institute of Business.
The 
 GEM Global Report, called the "Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2003 
 Summary Report" was released in London and Boston at Noon, US Eastern 
 Standard Time and 5 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time on January 8, 2004). This 
 year shows the most entrepreneurial economies are Uganda, Venezuela, 
 Argentina, Chile and New Zealand. 

 

 
