[title]Filipino Domestic Helpers Associated with Better English and Poorer Chinese Vocabulary Skills in Kindergartners[/title]

[date]1 June 2004[/date]


 Filipino Domestic Helpers Associated with Better English and Poorer 
 Chinese Vocabulary Skills in Kindergartners 
 
A study conducted by The Chinese University of Hong Kong on Hong Kong 
 kindergartners' language acquisition in Chinese and English suggests 
 that kindergartners cared for by Filipino domestic helpers were more 
 advanced in English receptive vocabulary and less advanced in Cantonese 
 receptive vocabulary skills as compared to their peers cared for at 
 home by Chinese speakers only.
Researchers 
 from the Centre for Development Psychology of the Department of Psychology 
 compared vocabulary in both Chinese and English as well as grammar in 
 Chinese of kindergartners being taken care of by both English-speaking 
 Filipino domestic helpers (FDH) and Chinese parents and those by Chinese 
 speakers only. Fifty-two Year 3 kindergartners with a mean age of 5.67 
 years from three kindergartens in Hong Kong joined the study with half 
 of the families employing FDHs.
Results 
 showed that two groups did not differ in Chinese grammar skills. These 
 effects held even when measures of children's nonverbal reasoning and 
 time spent by parents with children at home were statistically controlled.
Those 
 acquiring two languages are called bilinguals. With a short research 
 history, the effects of bilingualism are not universally agreed upon. 
 Previous research has suggested that bilingual children tend to have 
 some cognitive advantages, such as better decision-making about grammatical 
 accuracy and ignoring semantic context in the language aspect. The sentence 
 "The cat was barking" is an example. Bilingual children are better at 
 deciding the sentence is grammatically correct than are monolingual 
 children, who are often unable to consider grammar separately when the 
 meaning of the sentence (i.e., cats do not bark) is not sensible. At 
 the same time, research also demonstrates that bilingual children may 
 develop vocabulary in both languages at a somewhat slower rate as compared 
 to those learning only a single language from birth. Effects of bilingualism 
 also likely depend upon the language environment of any given society.
This 
 Hong Kong study is unique because all of the kindergartners have been 
 already learning English as a second language. However, those with FDHs 
 presumably had more informal exposure to English than did those without. 
 Results suggest that parents' goal of improving their children's English 
 by hiring helpers who have a good command of English is sensible and 
 achievable. At the same time, however, improved English vocabulary may 
 come at the expense of more limited Chinese vocabulary development. 
 The best way to boost children's Chinese vocabulary development is simply 
 for parents to spend more time talking, reading, and playing with their 
 children in Chinese. 
For 
 media enquiries, please contact the Centre of Development Psychology, 
 CUHK at tel: 26096576 or email: cmcbride@psy.cuhk.edu.hk.
 
 

 
