[title]Survey on The Hong Kong Female Sex Workers' Clients 2004[/title]

[date]30 November 2004[/date]


 Survey on The Hong Kong Female Sex Workers' Clients 2004 
 
The Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the School of Public 
 Health, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 has successfully interviewed 415 Hong Kong men who visited a female 
 sex worker in the last 6 months to examine their attitudes on AIDS. 
 The response rate was 73%. The study was sponsored by the Hong Kong 
 AIDS Trust Fund and in collaboration with the Community Health Organization 
 for Intervention, Care and Empowerment (CHOICE).
Professor 
 Joseph Lau Tak Fai, director of the Centre who led this study, reported 
 the key findings. Concerning HIV-related knowledge, only 28.7% of 
 the respondents is aware of the 3-month window period property of 
 HIV antibody testing and only 58% of the respondents knew that those 
 without any symptoms could still transmit HIV to others. With regard 
 to HIV-related attitudes, about 1/2 of the respondents believed that 
 they have absolutely no chance of contracting HIV in the future. Further, 
 about 40% of the respondents thought that the consequences of contracting 
 sexually transmitted diseases would not be too serious. Professor 
 Lau pointed out that these findings suggest that the men visiting 
 prostitutes were not adequately equipped with relevant knowledge and 
 attitudes conducive to HIV prevention. These clients of female sex 
 workers may deny or not recognize the risk of HIV infection and the 
 fear of contracting sexually transmitted diseases was not sufficient 
 to deter them from practicing unsafe sex behaviors.
Besides, 
 49.2% of the respondents had visited prostitutes both in Hong Kong 
 and on mainland China in the past 6 months. Of those who visited prostitutes 
 in Hong Kong in the last 6 months, 35.5% had not always been using 
 condoms when having sex with these prostitutes; of those who visited 
 prostitutes on mainland China in the last 6 months, 56% were inconsistent 
 condom users. The situation that condoms were used in Hong Kong, but 
 not in mainland China, even when the same individual man is of concern, 
 is therefore, quite common. Contradictory, about 75% of all respondents 
 believed that the risk for contracting sexually transmitted diseases 
 via sex workers on mainland China is higher that than via sex workers 
 in Hong Kong. There is therefore, a discrepancy between the cognition 
 and behaviors. Professor Lau suggests that the mere HIV-related knowledge 
 may not be adequate to cause behavioral changes. More in-depth preventive 
 services such as voluntary counseling and HIV testing and peer education 
 may be considered by HIV workers in Hong Kong.
Professor 
 Lau believed while the HIV- prevalence in Guangdong seems to be deteriorating 
 and the future situation of Hong Kong HIV prevalence is likely to 
 be affected by what happened on the mainland. It was found that men 
 visiting prostitutes in mainland China were more likely than their 
 counterparts in Hong Kong to be inconsistent condom users and this 
 increases the chance of cross-boundary transmission of HIV. The survey 
 also found that it is likely that prostitutes in mainland China were 
 more easily persuaded to not using condoms, as compared to their counterparts 
 in Hong Kong. This may be one of the reasons explaining why condoms 
 were less often used when commercial sex is involved in mainland China 
 than in Hong Kong. There is a need to provide direct HIV prevention 
 services to Hong Kong men visiting prostitutes in mainland China and 
 to sex workers serving Hong Kong men in China.
Further, 
 only 12% of the respondents had been tested for HIV antibody or had 
 received some HIV prevention services. Professor Lau opted that the 
 ability for Hong Kong to prevent the spread of HIV may be weaker than 
 expected. Hong Kong needs more programs, that are more effective, 
 in-depth and with a wider coverage.
The 
 survey also found that among all respondents who had visited a prostitute 
 in the last 6 months in Hong Kong, 53% and 22% respectively of them 
 had consumed alcohol or psychoactive substances before having sex 
 with such prostitutes. Similar figures for those visiting prostitutes 
 in mainland China in the last 6 months were 63% and 31% respectively. 
 Further, those consuming alcohol or psychoactive substances before 
 having sex with prostitutes in Hong Kong were 1.58 times and 1.80 
 times respectively more likely not using condoms consistently than 
 those not having used alcohol or not using psychoactive substances. 
 Similarly, the risk for inconsistent condom use among those having 
 used alcohol or psychoactive substance before having sex with prostitutes 
 in mainland China in the last 6 months were 2.27 and 2.52 times higher. 
 Consumption of alcohol and psychoactive substances were two factors 
 that partly explained why prostitute visitors were less likely to 
 use condoms when having sex with female sex workers in mainland China, 
 as compared to when having sex with sex workers in Hong Kong.
Professor 
 Lau concluded as there are other released reports raising concerns 
 of cross- boundary substance use, it is also seen that many of the 
 cross-boundary substance users would have sex after using substances. 
 Currently, the prevention of HIV and drug use have been compartmentalized 
 in Hong Kong and service workers had not taken alcohol use and substance 
 use into account when they design their prevention programs. This 
 study points out that use of alcohol and psychoactive substances were 
 far more predictive of inconsistent condom use, as compared to other 
 factors such as HIV-related knowledge. The HIV prevention and anti-drug 
 use campaigns should therefore work hand in hand for cross- boundary 
 prevention of both the drug and HIV problems. 



 
