[title]CUHK releases Satellite Images of Blazed Area at Tai Lam Country Park


 

 

 [/title]

[date]23 November 2006[/date]


 CUHK Yuen Yuen Research Centre for Satellite Remote Sensing
 Releases Satellite Images of Blazed Area at Tai Lam Country Park 
 
 Satellite pictures captured by the Yuen Yuen Research Centre for Satellite Remote Sensing of The Chinese University of Hong Kong in collaboration with Taiwan University indicate that the recent hillfire at Tai Lam Country Park has destroyed almost 740 hectares of tree. This was the biggest ever hillfire in a decade in Hong Kong, which blazed for 46 hours.
Researchers compared satellite picture of the country park at 17 December 2005 (before the hillfire) with that taken at 12 November 2006 (after the hillfire) and delineated the area of destruction (red area representing vegetation and black area is the blazed area). Preliminary computer analysis showed that the hillfire resulted in great-area destruction of 740 hectares. (see note)

Red square shows the monitored area

note: the satellite images clearly showed the overall destruction area of the hillfire. Verification of the actual destruction area and species of tree burnt down have to be carried out by field survry.
 

Satellite Image at 17 December 2005
Satellite Image at 12 November 2006

The Yuen Yuen Research Centre for Satellite Remote Sensing
The Yuen Yuen Research Centre for Satellite Remote Sensing was established in March 2004 by The Chinese University of Hong Kong with a generous donation from the Yuen Yuen Institute. The Research Centre is dedicated to promote and advance remote sensing research and applications for the benefits of the community. Besides, the Centre is also committed to research in applications of remote sensing science in agriculture, natural resource management, seashore and ocean environment, emergencies, monitoring and management of natural hazards, health and environment with particular focus on Hong Kong and the Southern China. The Research Centre also cooperates with the governments, universities and research institutes around the world in promoting information and academic exchange.

 
