[title]The Chinese University Appoints New Pro-Vice-Chancellor[/title]

[date]27 June 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University Appoints New Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has appointed Professor Ching Pak Chung as Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, for a period of two years starting from 1 August. Professor Ching will continue to serve concurrently as Head of Shaw College and Professor of Electronic Engineering. Including Professor Ching, there are four Pro-Vice-Chancellors at CUHK. The other three are Professor Kenneth Young, Professor Liu Pak Wai and Professor Jack Cheng. In addition, Professor Henry Wong and Professor Fung Kwok Pui have been reappointed as Heads of New Asia College and United College respectively for three years from 1 August.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biography of Professor Ching Pak Chung
 
Professor Ching Pak Chung pursued his studies at the University of Liverpool of United Kingdom. He received his bachelor¡¦s degree (first class honours) and doctoral degree in 1977 and 1981 respectively. He then continued his research at School of Electrical Engineering of the University of Bath and came back to Hong Kong in 1982 to teach at the Department of Electronic Engineering of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic. In 1984, Professor Ching joined the Chinese University. He is now Professor of Electronic Engineering. In January 1998, he was elected Dean of Engineering. His term of deanship ended in December 2003. In February 2004, he was appointed Head of Shaw College.
Professor Ching has participated actively in various professional activities. He has served in different capacities at the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers (HKIE), and has been Council Member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE) and member of the Technical Committee on Signal Processing Theory and Methods of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). He has been on the editorial board of a number of leading publications. He was Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing (1997-2000), Associate Editor for IEE Signal Processing Letters (2001-2003), and is currently Editor-in-chief for the HKIE Transactions and Honorary Member of the Editorial Committee for Journal of Data Acquisition and Processing. He is Fellow of IEE and HKIE, and was awarded IEEE Third Millennium Award in 2000.
Professor Ching¡¦s research interests include adaptive digital signal processing, time delay estimation and target localization, wavelets, blind signal estimation and separation, automatic speech recognition for Cantonese, speech modeling and speech synthesis, hands-free communications and advanced signal processing techniques for communications. He has published over 160 papers in international journals and conference proceedings. The academic achievements of Professor Ching are highly recognized by Mainland institutions. He has served as guest professor of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Southeast University and Institute of Acoustics of the Chinese Academy of Science. 
Professor Ching is dedicated to public services. He is currently member of the Consumer Council, member of the Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency Governing Council, member of the Innovation and Technology Fund Electronics Projects Vetting Committee of the Innovation and Technology Commission, member of the Copyright Tribunal and member of Electrical Safety Advisory Committee of the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department.
 
 
 
 
Biography of Professor Henry Wong 
Professor Henry Wong obtained his B.Sc. degree (first class honours) from The Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1973, and his Ph.D. degree from the University College London in 1976. After that, he conducted research at Harvard University, University College London, and Shanghai Institute of Organic Chemistry, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He returned to CUHK in 1982. He is now Professor of Chemistry and Head of New Asia College.
Professor Wong¡¦s research interests are the chemistry of organosilicon and heterocyclic compounds, as well as syntheses of natural and non-natural molecules. He has published more than 190 research papers, invited reviews and book chapters. He is Chairman of the Management Committee, Shanghai-Hong Kong Joint Laboratory in Chemical Synthesis, Shanghai Institute of Organic Chemistry. He is also honorary professor and guest professor of many tertiary institutions in Mainland China.
Professor Wong has received many prestigious awards, such as Doctor of Science degree from the University of London, and National Natural Science Award (second-class category). He is a Croucher Senior Research Fellow, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Fellow of the Academy of Sciences for the Developing World. 
  
 
 
  
Biography of Professor Fung Kwok Pui
 
Professor Fung obtained his B.Sc. in Chemistry in 1973 and M.Phil in Biochemistry in 1975 from The Chinese University of Hong Kong. In 1978, he received his Ph.D. in Microbiology from The University of Hong Kong. He is currently Head of United College, Professor of Biochemistry, and Chairman of Department of Biochemistry, Vice-Chairman of the Management Committee of the Institute of Chinese Medicine, and Coordinator of Hong Kong Bioinformatics Centre of CUHK.
  Professor Fung specializes in cancer research, specifically in anti-tumour mechanism, genomic and bioinformatic characterization of genes in human tumours, and purification of active anti-tumour agents from traditional Chinese medicine. He has published more than 220 publications in peer-reviewed, indexed journals. He is co-principal investigator of the research project Chinese Medicine Research and Further Development, an Area of Excellence selected by the University Grants Committee.
Professor Fung is a staunch promoter of biochemical research and modernization of traditional Chinese medicine in Hong Kong. He was member of the Chinese Medicine Board, Chinese Medicine Council, and member of Biology and Medicine Panel, Research Grants Council. He has been the local representative of the Society of Chinese Bioscientists in America for many years, and was presented the Distinguished Service Award in 1999. He is also a member of the Action Committee Against Narcotics Sub-committee on Treatment and Rehabilitation. 
 


 
