
[title]CUHK establishes the S. H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke Centre[/title]

 




[date]2 July 2005[/date]

CUHK 
 establishes the S. H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke Centre 
 
 
Cardiovascular disease and stroke kill 16.7 million people worldwide 
 every year. In Hong Kong, more than 8,000 people per year or 20 
 people per day die of these two diseases. These diseases trigger 
 on average 50,000 hospital admissions annually in Hong Kong and 
 cause a heavy economic burden to the medical sector. 
Supported 
 by a generous donation of HK$10 million from the S. H. Ho Foundation 
 Limited, the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong (CUHK) set up the S. H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke 
 Centre today. The establishment of the Centre will deepen the collaboration 
 between cardiology and neurology researchers at CUHK and world's 
 renowned research centres in cardiovascular disease and stroke to 
 strive for advances in diagnosis, monitoring and treatment. 
The 
 Division of Cardiology of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
 CUHK is one of the world's top cardiovascular research centres. 
 It has become the most comprehensive and experienced biventricular 
 pacing therapy centre for heart failure patients in Asia since 1999. 
 Numerous high impact research works have been conducted. For instance, 
 the research group was the first in the world to adopt advanced 
 echocardiographic technology (tissue Doppler echocardiography) to 
 select patients for biventricular pacemaker therapy. It was also 
 the first in Hong Kong to introduce the three-dimensional electroanatomical 
 mapping system on patients with heart failure and cardiac arrhythmia. 
 
The 
 Division of Neurology of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
 CUHK has been in the forefront of research in intracranial atherosclerosis 
 which is the most common cause of stroke in Asians. It was the first 
 research group in the world to predict the risk of stroke with the 
 use of transcranial Doppler, microembolic signal detection and microbleeds. 
 
The 
 Naming Ceremony of S. H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke Centre, 
 held at Prince of Wales Hospital today, was officiated by Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Mr. Roger K. H. Luk, Treasurer 
 of CUHK, Dr. David T. C. Ho, Chairman of the S. H. Ho Foundation 
 Limited, Professor Jack C. Y. Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, 
 Professor Fok Tai-Fai, Dean of Medicine and Professor Joseph J. 
 Y. Sung, Chairman of Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK. 
 
'Led 
 by multi-disciplinary experts in the field, the Centre will form 
 the platform to provide state-of-the-art technologies for researches 
 in cardiovascular diseases and stroke. It will also serve as a training 
 hub for the medical professionals in Hong Kong and Asia,' said Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau at the ceremony. 
'Through 
 the dedication and commitment of medical professionals to serving 
 patients in our community, we truly believe that the Centre can 
 provide patients with the best diagnostic and therapeutic services,' 
 said Dr. David T. C. Ho.

From 
 Left:
 Professor T F Fok, Dean, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK
 Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK
 Dr David T C Ho, Chairman, The S H Ho Foundation Limited
 Mr Roger K H Luk, Treasurer, CUHK
 Professor Jack C Y Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK
 Professor Joseph J Y Sung, Associate Dean, Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK 
 


 
