[title]CUHK No. 1 Again in MBA Ranking[/title]

[date]14 August 2003[/date]


CUHK No. 1 Again in MBA Ranking 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been ranked No. 1 in East 
 Asia again by business magazine Asia Inc in its latest issue released 
 in August. CUHK has now won this distinction two years in a row. 
The rankings in the "Asia's 
 Best MBA Schools" survey are based on school and faculty quality, student 
 quality and peer-reputation. The extensive links and network of the 
 CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration with local industry and with 
 the Pearl River Delta are also well recognized by the magazine. 
"Our faculty has always 
 been one of our greatest strengths and pride. Our colleagues are not 
 only academically accomplished: they also see themselves as mentors 
 dedicated to bringing out the best in their students, and preparing 
 them for careers best suited to their special talents and aspirations," 
 said Professor Vincent Lai, Associate Dean of The Chinese University's 
 Faculty of Business Administration and Director of the MBA Programmes.
 
"I like the international 
 profile with lots of high-profile academics visiting," said Winnie Biala, 
 Class of 2002 and now marketing manager at L'Oreal. "The beauty for 
 me was the integrated core course which pulls together the full business 
 cycle from beginning to end. So you go from basic economics, law, accountancy, 
 onto IPO, IT and organizational behaviour," said Dennis Fung, second-year 
 student. 
Jill Dodwell-Groves, head 
 of executive development at Jardine Pacific, holds a similar view. "The 
 flavour of the month for a long time was CUHK and it had probably the 
 best MBA in town, which everybody wanted to get into," she told Asia 
 Inc's reporter. 
"I am naturally delighted 
 by this recognition," said Acting Vice-Chancellor Professor Kenneth 
 Young. "The Chinese University of Hong Kong has, for the past 40 years, 
 worked towards excellence in both teaching and research. The ranking 
 testifies to the quality of the teaching, learning and scholarship of 
 the CUHK MBA Programmes. It also acknowledges CUHK as a first-class 
 University offering quality education that consistently meets standards 
 of excellence locally, nationally and internationally. 
"I offer my hearty congratulations 
 to the Business Administration Faculty," added Professor Young, "They 
 have done it again." 
Likewise, The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong's Executive MBA Programme has received consistently 
 top rankings. It was ranked No. 1 in Asia by both London-based Financial 
 Times and U.S. magazine BusinessWeek in 2001, and again by Financial 
 Times in 2002 as No. 1 in Asia and No. 20 worldwide. 

 
