[title]CUHK School of Hotel and Tourism Management Promotes Cultural Tourism in China[/title]

[date]6 October 2006[/date]


CUHK School of Hotel and Tourism Management
 
 Promotes Cultural Tourism in China
 China has a very long history of cultural heritage which always fascinates tourists around the world. The tourism industry in China has been prospering and the country has been striving to become the world¡¦s most popular country in tourism. In 2005, China became the top fourth country in the world in terms of visitor arrival with a total of 46.8 million visitors, an increase of 12% of the previous year. The World Tourist Organization also foresees that China will become the world¡¦s No.1 tourist destination in 2020.
 To help promote cultural tourism in China, the School of Hotel and Tourism Management of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, for the second time, co-organizes a Photo Exhibition on Tourism in China with the Asia Tourism Exchange Center Limited from October 3 to 13. The Asia Tourism Exchange Center Limited is a Hong Kong-registered non-profit making agency under the China National Tourism Association. It plays an active role in assisting the development of the tourism industry in China, Hong Kong and Macau. With a theme of cultural tourism, the exhibition will feature about 100 photos on various tourist attractions in China, such as Beijing, Lhasa and Zhangjiaje. The Society of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management, a student body of the CUHK assisted in organizing this exhibition. The exhibition is now being held at Sir Run Run Shaw Hall Foyer and the Cultural Sqaure outisde Benjamin Franklin Center of the CUHK campus. It also includes a contest with prizes open to general public.
Professor Lee Kam-hon, Director of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management of The Chinese University of Hong Kong said, China, one of the four major Ancient Civilizations in the World, is renowned for her long cultural history and has been expanding and improving its tourism facilities and services. Being a pioneer educator to cultivate experts for the hotel and tourism industry, our School hopes to help enhance the knowledge and interests of our students in China cultural tourism and its current development by organizing this exhibition. We wish to equip our students with the knowledge necessary for contributing to the future development of China tourism. It is also our vision to help promote the interesting features of China cultural tourism among general public.


 From left: Prof. Lee Kam-hon, Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, CUHK; Mr. Lin Shan, Director, Asian Tourism Exchange Center Ltd.; Mr. Fu Kai Ho, Kyle, President of The Society of Hotel and Tourism Management of CUHK 
 
 
 Prof. Lee Kam-hon, Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, CUHK 
 

 
