[title]New Facilities Deveoted to Research and Promotion of Philosophy and General Education[/title]

[date]29 April 2005[/date]

New 
 Facilities Deveoted to Research and Promotion of Philosophy and 
 General Education 
 
Two research centres and an archive have recently been established 
 at the Chinese University thanks to a generous donation of HK$22.5 
 million by the Edwin S.L. Cheng Research Fund for General Education 
 and Philosophy. At a ceremony held today, Mr. Edwin S.L. Cheng and 
 family presented the cheque to Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, vice-chancellor 
 of the University. Prof. Lau praised Mr. Cheng for his philanthropic 
 spirit and his support of humanities development at the University. 
 
New 
 Centre Dedicated to General Education 
The 
 Research Centre for General Education, set up under the Office of 
 University General Education, strives to deepen discourse and reflection 
 on general education and the idea of a university, foster exchange 
 on general education practices in tertiary institutions in different 
 regions, and promote general education development in Chinese communities. 
 It will be headed by Prof. Cheung Chan-fai, director of University 
 General Education and professor in the Department of Philosophy. 
 
The 
 functions of the centre include conducting research on general education, 
 fostering links among higher education institutes in the region 
 and the world, and developing related teaching support. It has plans 
 to publish books under the General Education Series and monographs 
 on research findings, organize conferences, seminars and teaching 
 workshops, and invite renowned scholars to give lectures. 
The 
 research centre will produce a regular publication, University 
 General Education Bulletin. The centre's plans for 2005 include 
 publishing three titles under the General Education Series: Introduction 
 to Physics, Introduction to Astrology, and Gazing 
 at Death. 
To 
 celebrate the inauguration of the centre, a conference will be held 
 from 2nd to 4th June 2005. The conference will feature Prof. Yang 
 Chen-ning as the keynote speaker. Senior academics and educators 
 from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan will discuss the possible 
 common grounds among different knowledge domains, dialogue between 
 scientists and scholars in the humanities, and other topics related 
 to general education. 
Research 
 Centre for Chinese Philosophy and Culture 
On 
 3rd May, the Research Centre for Chinese Philosophy and Culture 
 opened at the Department of Philosophy. The new centre also held 
 its first international conference, 'Western Interpretations, Chinese 
 Responses: Reflections and Inquiries on the Methodology of Chinese 
 Philosophy' on the same day. 
The 
 research centre has three fundamental aims: to continue the Chinese 
 humanistic tradition established by Ch'ien Mu, Tang Chun-I, and 
 Mou Tsung-san at New Asia College and the Chinese University, to 
 explore new directions in the study of Chinese philosophy and culture, 
 and to promote academic exchange between researchers the world over. 
 
The 
 centre will be headed by Prof. Liu Xiaogan, professor in the Department 
 of Philosophy. It will initiate research in new issues, methods, 
 and areas of study, and facilitate communication and collaboration 
 among scholars from different regions. It will also aim at furthering 
 the modernization and internationalization of research on Chinese 
 thought and culture. 
The 
 centre plans to organize two or three international conferences 
 with workshops and reading groups each year. It will also sponsor 
 academic exchange programmes for scholars. Other activities include 
 the publication of an academic journal, a monography series, and 
 academic newsletters, and a website. 
Archive 
 for Phenomenology and Contemporary Philosophy 
The 
 new Archive for Phenomenology and Contemporary Philosophy of the 
 Department of Philosophy marks a new phase in the development of 
 phenomenology in Hong Kong, mainland China, and Asia. The archive 
 will leverage on the department's experience, network, and library 
 resources on phenomenology. The archive is headed by Prof. Kwan 
 Tze Wan, chairman of the Department of Philosophy. 
The 
 work of the archive will include setting up a working phenomenology 
 library, building partnerships with major phenomenology archives 
 in Europe and other regions, and incorporating major works from 
 overseas archives. It will also work closely with the Bibliotheca 
 Phenomenologica of Peking University and explore opportunities for 
 collaboration with other academic institutions on the mainland. 
 It will organize conferences with the Research Centre for Phenomenology 
 and the Human Sciences of the CUHK Department of Philosophy and 
 engage, jointly with major academic organizations on the mainland, 
 in editing and translating important phenomenology literature and 
 publishing books and journals. Besides the archive will work with 
 the Research Centre for Humanities Computing of the CUHK Department 
 of Philosophy to explore the possibility of setting up a web platform 
 of phenomenology-related information. 

From 
 left: Prof. Cheung Chan-fai, Prof. Kwan Tze Wan, and Prof. Liu Xiaogan




 
