[title]Smart Operating Rooms Installed at PWH[/title]

[date]13 December 2005[/date]


 Improving Comfort of Surgeon and Safety of Patient
 Smart Operating Rooms Installed at PWH
 Two high-tech, fully automated operating rooms are being installed at the Prince of Wales Hospital, the teaching hospital of the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong to enhance the safety of the patient during minimally invasive procedures by boosting the comfort and performance of the surgeon and the surgical team. These new surgical suites will also facilitate the training and research programmes of the CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre.
 Opened on 18 November 2005, the CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre is a most sophisticated multidisciplinary minimally invasive surgical skills centre in the Asia Pacific region. Equipped with dedicated laboratory setting MIS training facilities in the territory, the Centre conducts leading edge research in surgical technologies, aiming at enhancing Hong Kong¡¦s position as a world hub for medical sciences and surgical research. As part of this effort, two endo-surgery operating theatre suites in PWH have been upgraded to smart operating rooms. Each smart operating room called OR1? allows the surgeons and nurses to control the entire surgical suites through a panel system. Boom arm technology suspends all equipment and monitors from the ceiling, allowing the doctors and nurses to move unimpeded and offering optimal positioning of equipment while eliminating hazardous cords and wires from traversing the operating room floor. Surgeons are able to communicate with other doctors elsewhere who can simultaneously view the live images from the operating room, transmitted over IP for videoconferencing or consultation. Moreover the OR1? capabilities also include electronic capture and archival of patient data through the Advanced Image and Data Archiving System (AIDA).
 I am impressed that new system has enhanced the comfort of surgeon and patient. It also provides an ideal environment for the robotic surgery. said Professor Andrew Van Hasselt, Chairman, Department of Surgery, CUHK. The new system facilitates training and research initiatives of the MIS Centre as well as other institutes of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK. It is really an encouraging development from both patients and trainees¡¦ points of view.
 To support this initiative and the operation of the MIS Centre, Hewlett-Packard HK SAR Ltd. has kindly donated HP ProLiant servers and HP workstations to power up the Centre. I would like to express our gratitude to HP¡¦s generosity in sponsoring the very important computer equipment for the Department of Surgery and the establishment of the new CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre, said Professor Van Hasselt. The state-of-the-art computer system donated will deliver superior reliability and efficiency that will advance the level of our mission. This will also support research and training initiatives for the advancement of medical care. HP¡¦s generosity is hence benefiting the community as a whole. 
 
 Mr Jonson Yue, Senior Manager Solution and Industry Marketing, Technology Solutions Group, Hewlett-Packard HK SAR Ltd (centre) visiting the CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre where OR1? systems are installed.


 
