
[title]Top Economists to Speak at Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures [/title]

 




[date]12 May 2005[/date]

Top 
 Economists to Speak at Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished 
 Lectures 
 
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 
 made a successful debut last November and are now set to return. 
 This year's lecture, on the Emergence of China in the World Economy, 
 will be held on 3 June. Three Nobel laureates in Economic Sciences 
 and three world-renowned economists will share their insights. The 
 lectures are a collaboration between Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) 
 and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).
 
 
The speakers will be Nobel laureates Edward 
 C Prescott (2004), Robert A Mundell 
 (1999) and Sir James A Mirrlees 
 (1996) and professors Alberto F Alesina 
 and Robert J Barro from Harvard University 
 and Edmund S Phelps from Columbia 
 University. The organizers have invited Financial Secretary Henry 
 Tang to officiate at the opening ceremony, adding to the event's 
 prestige. These scholars will lecture at the Grand Ballroom of Kowloon 
 Shangri-La Hotel.
CUHK 
 also introduced its new Institute of Economics at the press conference 
 announcing this year's lecture. The Institute draws together experts 
 from CUHK's departments of Economics, Decision Sciences and Managerial 
 Economics. The synergy will build upon the university's strengths 
 in teaching and research in economics, facilitate cooperation with 
 prestigious institutions worldwide and contribute to the advancement 
 of economic theory and its application. This year's Nobel Laureates 
 Distinguished Lectures are also being coordinated by the Institute.
CUHK 
 Vice-Chancellor Lawrence J Lau said: "I wish to express my deep 
 gratitude to Sun Hung Kai Properties for its generous support. It 
 will be such a valuable opportunity to have these prominent economists 
 in Hong Kong on one occasion. They will discuss the emergence of 
 China in the world economy, one of the hottest topics of our time, 
 and I believe that the event will interest experts, academics and 
 the general public, once more making this lecture series a significant 
 event."
SHKP 
 Vice Chairman and Managing Director Raymond Kwok said: "We always 
 try to encourage talented young people and promote life-long learning. 
 Our hope in staging this major event is that young people will learn 
 and broaden their horizons, with the scholars' intellect and rigour 
 inspiring them to new heights. As we did last year, we will arrange 
 sessions in which students can meet the scholars, and we will try 
 to arrange an event where local economists can meet with the lecturers, 
 note their achievements and exchange views."
A 
 limited number of free tickets will be distributed to the public, 
 to give people a chance to benefit from the lecturers' scholarship 
 and contributions to humanity. Details will be announced soon. University 
 and secondary school students will also be invited to meet the scholars.
 Background
The 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures are 
 made possible by a generous donation from Sun Hung Kai Properties, 
 in collaboration with The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The series 
 sees Nobel laureates in any of the six recognized fields (Physics, 
 Chemistry, Physiology and Medicine, Literature, Peace and Economic 
 Sciences) invited to Hong Kong each year to deliver public lectures, 
 meet with scholars and professionals in the education and commercial 
 sectors and share their accomplishments. The series began in 2004 
 and is intended to promote discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, 
 professional and entrepreneurial expertise, as well as scholarly 
 pursuits and contributions to humanity and society. 


 
 



 
