[title]CUHK's MBA Programme in Finance Ranked Among the Most Influential in Mainland China[/title]

[date]17 January 2005[/date]


 CUHK's MBA Programme in Finance
 Ranked Among the Most Influential in Mainland China 
 
The World Business Newswire recently published its annual ranking 
 of "The Most Influential Mainland China-Foreign (including Hong 
 Kong) Partnership MBAs" in Beijing. The MBA Programme in Finance 
 co-offered by The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Tsinghua University 
 in Beijing is ranked one of the top 10 programmes, and is the only 
 programme involving a Hong Kong institution to make the list.
"We 
 are delighted with the ranking result," said Professor HE Jia, professor 
 of the Department of Finance at The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 and the programme director of the MBA Programme in Finance. Many partnership 
 programmes, co-offered by mainland universities and prestigious foreign 
 universities, have been launched in mainland China in recent years.
"Despite 
 a short history and a relatively narrow focus, our programme is ranked 
 at No. 9. This ranking is a manifestation of our brand name being 
 established and our programme being recognized by the community. We 
 would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our teachers and 
 supporting staff. Their determination and enthusiasm has created such 
 a wonderful programme and this successful result. We will value their 
 support as we reach new heights in the future," said Professor He.
In 
 this ranking exercise, a programme is assessed only if the foreign 
 partner is listed in the rankings of the U.S.-based Business Week 
 or those of the London-based Financial Times and, the domestic 
 partner must be an MBA institution approved by the Ministry of Education 
 of the People's Republic of China. Opinions of the CEOs of the top 
 500 mainland enterprises and international enterprises on different 
 programmes and their graduates were collected, which constitute the 
 most important component of the ranking assessment. Hence, the ranking 
 reflects the overall standing and the commercial value of an MBA programme 
 in the eyes of Chinese employers.
 
 For more details, please visit http://bschool.icxo.com/cfc.html. 
 



 
