[title]CUHK Study shows Obese Children have 10 times higher risk of Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome than normal[/title]

[date]31 March 2005[/date]


 CUHK Study shows Obese Children have
 10 times higher risk of Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome than normal 
 
 
Childhood obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) is increasingly 
 being recognized. Studies from overseas have reported its prevalence 
 to be as high as 10.7% among the paediatric population. It is important 
 that the condition is diagnosed early and accurately as if left untreated, 
 complications such as hypertension, growth failure, poor attention 
 span and school performance may result. Unlike the adult OSAS patients 
 who are typically obese, the relation between obesity and childhood 
 OSAS is not clear. In light of the increasing prevalence of childhood 
 obesity around the world, it is particularly important to determine 
 whether obesity would predispose to OSAS in children. The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong conducted a case-control study in the Prince 
 of Wales Hospital (1998-2000) to determine whether obese children 
 had an increased risk of OSAS. We hypothesised that obese children 
 were more at risk of OSAS when compared to the normal population, 
 and that this risk was potentiated by the presence of pharyngeal lymphoid 
 tissue.
Forty-six 
 children (age range 7-15 years) were consecutively recruited from 
 the paediatric obesity clinic. Forty-four normal weight, sex and age 
 matched controls were randomly selected from the local schools. Obese 
 children were defined as those with actual weight over or equal to 
 120% of the ideal weight for height (IBW), whereas normal controls 
 had IBW of 80-120%. The height and weight of each child were measured 
 and the size of tonsils was assessed by an ENT surgeon prior to the 
 sleep assessment. All children then underwent overnight sleep study 
 in a dedicated sleep laboratory.
The 
 obese children were found to have more frequent and severe respiratory 
 disturbances at night. Using an internationally well-accepted diagnostic 
 criterion for childhood OSAS, 26% of obese children had OSAS compared 
 to 2.3% of normal controls (obstructive apnoea index, OAI over or 
 equal to 1). We also found that the presence of OSAS was related to 
 the presence of enlarged tonsils and the body mass index. Our result 
 suggested that obese children were at significantly higher risk for 
 OSAS and the presence of any pharyngeal lymphoid tissue enlargement 
 in obese children would further potentiate the risk for OSAS.
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong advocates that doctors looking after 
 obese children and parents are made aware of these important findings. 
 Symptoms of OSAS among obese children should be sought for and if 
 present, the child should be referred to a specialized centre for 
 further management.
Full 
 article can be seen in "A controlled study of sleep related disordered 
 breathing in obese children" by YK Wing, SH Hui, WM Pak, CK Ho, A 
 Cheung, AM Li, TF Fok. Archives of Disease in Childhood 2003;88:1043-1047. 
 
from left to right:
 Dr. Martin PAK, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department 
 of Surgery, CUHK
 Professor Albert Martin LI, Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics, 
 CUHK
 Professor Tai Fai FOK, Dean, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK
 Professor Yun Kwok WING, Professor, Department of Psychiatry, CUHK
 Dr. Stephen Hon Lam HUI, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department 
 of Paediatrics, CUHK 



 
