[title]CUHK Consortium Leads the Business Integration of RFID Technologies for Hong Kong[/title]

[date]19 October 2004[/date]


 CUHK Consortium Leads the Business Integration of RFID Technologies 
 for Hong Kong 
 
The Center of Cyber Logistics (CCL) research team from The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong is spearheading a project with the leading 
 industry partners to investigate the integration of Radio Frequency 
 Identification (RFID) technologies in business chains for Hong Kong. 
 The team includes Professor Waiman Cheung, Director of CCL, Professor 
 Sung-Chi Chu and Professor Timon Du from the Faculty of Business Administration. 
 CUHK receives tremendous support from consortium members - a crucial 
 combination of partners in supply chains, logistics industry, technology 
 companies, solutions providers and regulatory agencies. A press conference 
 is held today to launch the project.
"RFID 
 has become an imperative issue for the logistics industry recently." 
 said Professor Waiman Cheung, "RFID has been proposed to identify 
 the goods being handled. The commonly used barcode scanning has difficulties 
 in identification of products packed in high density within a tolerable 
 time frame while RFID technology can resolve this problem."
The 
 applications of RFID technologies for business applications in corporations 
 of different business natures within the company boundary have been 
 discussed and highlighted recently in the media. This CUHK-led project 
 aims to identify new and pressing key research issues for partners 
 in the integration of this one single unique identity technology of 
 goods and products in the management of supply chains or demand chains, 
 and logistics services chains - collectively referred to as business 
 chains.
The 
 research will address three topical areas: 1) information infrastructure 
 - global identification standards and neutral information and communications 
 platforms; 2) business collaboration - integration of RFID-aware business 
 processes; and 3) information security and privacy - dynamic management 
 of sensitive information sharing among business partners.
Prof. 
 Cheung continues, "Our project will provide a clear and forward-looking 
 recommendation to leverage the RFID technologies in near terms, and 
 to take steps to alleviate key concerns, especially those related 
 to security and privacy. We will address the issues and concerns from 
 a holistic view of the collaboration of business chains. That is why 
 participations from different industries and business partners are 
 fundamental and crucial in this pilot project. Having the opportunity 
 to explore and leverage RFID technology across company boundaries 
 makes our study unique among other initiatives reported so far. We 
 will build the first test case around the garment industry."
Hong 
 Kong must be able to react appropriately in a timely manner - both 
 in governmental initiatives and regulatory preemptive stands, along 
 with policies to encourage industry investments and strategic positioning 
 with RFID technologies. The recent implementation of CEPA II further 
 opens up opportunities for companies and professionals to access the 
 Chinese markets with zero tariff products and services. Hong Kong 
 has continuously enjoyed growth in export to markets in Mainland China, 
 the U.S.A., the EU and Japan, making up 80% of total exports in the 
 first eight month of 2004 according to TDC. Majority of HK companies 
 have their manufacturing base in Guangdong and conducting outward 
 processing activities. The incorporation of the RFID technologies 
 is an urgent and unavoidable issue, as Wal-Mart leads key logistics 
 and supply chain partners to jumpstart RFID-assisted business processes 
 in their management of supply chains. This innovative use of technology 
 can further accentuates the differential competitive advantages of 
 supply chains, and Hong Kong as the leading logistics hub of the region.
The 
 CUHK Consortium has lined up the industry leaders which enable a necessary 
 and sufficient combination of business partners to benefit from the 
 study. These generous sponsors have supported the study in various 
 aspects, with contribution, including both equipment and software, 
 actually amounts to HK$2.5 million. This group of industry leaders 
 includes key partners of the logistics industry such as Asia Airfreight 
 Terminal, Cathay Pacific, Dimerco, DHL, Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals 
 Limited, and Kerry Logistics; supply chain partners such as Bossini 
 and SML Group; technology solutions providers such as Automated Systems 
 (HK) Ltd., NEC, Oracle, Supply Chain and Logistics Technology Holdings 
 Limited and Sun Microsystems of California Limited; standards organization, 
 Hong Kong Article Numbering Association and e-commerce service provider, 
 Tradelink. Moreover, the Asia-Pacific Institute of Business at CUHK¡@has 
 also made a generous contribution to this study.
The 
 research team and members of the consortium will collaboratively work 
 together to reach a comprehensive understanding of the emerging trend 
 of this innovative RFID technology, and its implications on business 
 strategy, and new privacy and security issues revolving around the 
 adoption to this single unique identity in global trade. Initial findings 
 will be reported within a 10-month time frame.
The 
 Center of Cyber Logistics conducts academic and applied research in 
 logistics issues. The Center has been a staunch advocate in working 
 closely with members of the logistics communities and the Government 
 to enhance and empower the industry in the new cyber era. The study 
 of RFID technologies and their ramifications in global trade will 
 be one of the key focuses of the Center. The Center is also affiliated 
 with the Business Faculty of the City University of Hong Kong. 
Speakers 
 (from left to right): 
 Prof. Timon Du, Prof. Alex Chu, Prof. Waiman Cheung, Prof. T.S. Lee, 
 Prof. P.W. Liu, Ms Anna Lin (Chief Executive of Hong Kong Article 
 Numbering Association) and Ms Emily Chung (Deputy CEO of Tradelink 
 Electronic Commerce Limited) 
Illustration:
 The research team conducted an illustration of the RFID technologies 
 to demonstrate the benefits of this innovative technology.

Prof. 
 Waiman Cheung, Director of the Center of Cyber Logistics at CUHK.

Research 
 Team (from left to right):
 Prof. Timon Du, Prof. Waiman Cheung, Prof. Alex Chu 


 
