[title]Consul-General of France in HK Lectured at CUHK[/title]

[date]1 November 2006[/date]


Consul-General of France in Hong Kong Lectured at CUHK 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has invited Mr. Jean-Pierre Thimbault, Consul-General of France in Hong Kong to give a lecture on China and France: Close Co-operation, Long Term Relationship and the Role of Hong Kong. During the lecture, Mr Thimbault examined the development of the relationship between China and France, and the role of Hong Kong, especially in this period of high-profile interest just after the visit of President Chirac in China and before the official visit of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to France.
Mr Jean-Pierre Thimbault, Consul-General of France in Hong Kong, was born in 1961 in Lourdes, France, and is married to Aurore Saglio. He graduated from the Political Institute in Paris. After graduation he joined the Financial and Economics Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (1988-1991). Over the years he has held various diplomatic positions including: Technical Counsellor for European Affairs at the Prime Minister Office (1991-1992), Diplomatic Counsellor to the Minister of Justice (1992-1993), Head of the European Community Monitor Mission in Bosnia then Albania (1993-1994), First Counsellor at the French Embassy in Zagreb (1994-1995), Counsellor at the French Permanent Mission to the United Nations in New York (1995-1997), Diplomatic Counsellor to the Minister for Regional Development and Environment (1997-1999), First Counsellor at the French Embassy in Berlin (1999-2000), Diplomatic Counsellor to the Minister for Administration and Public Management Reform (2000-2003), and Minister-Counsellor at the French Embassy in Tokyo. He became the Consul-General of France in Hong Kong in September 2005. 
CUHK has the mission of combining tradition and modernity, and bringing together China and the west. To broaden students¡¦ international horizon and to live up to the University¡¦s mission, a series of lectures by diplomats were organized by CUHK. Previously, six lectures were delivered by Mr. Yang Wenchang, former Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC, Mr. James Cunningham, U.S. Consul-General of Hong Kong and Macau, Mr. Stephen Bradley, British Consul-General in Hong Kong, Mr. Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong, Dr. Volker Stanzel, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to the People¡¦s Republic of China and Mr. Lu Xinhua, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC.

 
 
 
 
View Past Lectures 

 
