[title]International Student Assessment Programme[/title]

[date]9 December 2004[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong Held its 61st Congregation
 for the Installation of New Vice-Chancellor and the Conferment of 
 Degrees 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 61st Congregation for 
 the Installation of New Vice-Chancellor and the Conferment of Degrees 
 on Thursday, 9 December 2004.
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau was appointed by the Council of the University as 
 the sixth Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong with 
 effect from 1 July 2004. The four honorary graduates are Professor 
 Lao Yung-wei (Lao Sze-kwang), renowned philosopher, Professor of Philosophy, 
 Huafan University in Taiwan and Academician of Academia Sinica; Dr 
 Yang Liwei, the Chinese astronaut who commanded China's first manned 
 space flight; Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economic 
 Sciences 1996, and Distinguished Professor-at-Large of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong; and Dr William Mong Man Wai, Chairman and 
 Senior Managing Director of Shun Hing Group.
Professor 
 Lao was conferred the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa. 
 Dr Yang received the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa. 
 Sir James and Dr Mong was each awarded the degree of Doctor of Social 
 Science, honoris causa.
At 
 the Congregation, besides the four honorary doctorate degrees, a total 
 of 5,026 degrees were conferred. These include 5 Doctor of Medicine 
 degrees, 154 Doctor of Philosophy degrees, 1 Doctor of Music degree, 
 6 Doctor of Education degrees, and 2,126 postgraduate students received 
 their Master's degree. 2,734 were awarded Bachelor's degree which 
 included 385 Bachelor of Arts, 509 Bachelor of Business Administration, 
 114 Bachelor of Education, 405 Bachelor of Engineering, 152 Bachelor 
 of Medicine and Surgery, 85 Bachelor of Nursing, 31 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 
 12 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 535 Bachelor of Science and 506 Bachelor 
 of Social Science. 
Attachments:
 - An address given by 
 Professor Sir James A. Mirrlees, MA, PhD, Nobel Laureate in Economics
 - Introduction of Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, BS, MA, PhD, DSSc (Hon)
 - An address given 
 by Professor Lawrence J. Lau
 - Citation of Professor 
 Lao Yung-wei (Lao Sze-kwang)
 - Citation of Dr Yang Liwei
 - Citation of Professor 
 Sir James A. Mirrlees
 - Citation of Dr William 
 Mong Man Wai 
 - Photos of the Congregation 



 
