[title]CUHK Law School Establishes the Graduate Law Centre[/title]

[date]11 January 2006[/date]


 CUHK Law School Establishes the Graduate Law Centre
 in Hong Kong¡¦s Central Business District 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong takes pride in the School of Law¡¦s establishment of The CUHK Graduate Law Centre. The new Graduate Law Centre on the second floor of the Bank of America Tower in Hong Kong¡¦s Central Business District will enable the School of Law to achieve market prominence and will also provide an ideal learning environment for postgraduate students.
The establishment of the Graduate Law Centre represents the University¡¦s significant commitment in legal education. It also demonstrates the University¡¦s tremendous support for the School of Law¡¦s long-term vision to meeting Hong Kong¡¦s needs for quality legal education and training.
The CUHK Graduate Law Centre which takes the entire second floor of the Bank of America Tower has a total area of 35,000 sq ft. Like the base of the School of Law situated on the University main campus, the Graduate Law Centre will be equipped with state-of-the-art teaching and research facilities including a Moot Court and computer workstations for e-learning.
The central location of the Graduate Law Centre will provide the School with an unrivalled opportunity to develop its postgraduate programmes to serve the community with excellence in high-end teaching and research. The site will also bring the School close to the legal profession on a daily basis, reinforce the bonds between the School, the legal profession and the community and create unrivalled opportunities for legal and law-related research. It will also enable students to participate in activities such as round-table discussions on topics of current importance, seminars and lectures delivered by legal practitioners, court visits and formal and informal meetings with representatives of the profession.
The School of Law will offer its taught postgraduate programmes in the Graduate Law Centre. There will be synergy between the School¡¦s base on the University main campus at Shatin and the Graduate Law Centre in Central. Postgraduate programmes that will be taught at the Graduate Law Centre from September 2006 are Juris Doctor (JD), Masters of Laws (LLM) in Chinese Business Law, LLM in Common Law, LLM in International Economic Law, and from September 2007, Postgraduate Certificate in Laws (PCLL). Professional training programmes, such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) seminars, will also be delivered at the Graduate Law Centre from 2007.
The Centre is expected to be ready in the summer of 2006. In the initial three years, the School of Law will share the space with CUHK¡¦s School of Continuing and Professional Studies.
 


 
