[title]Sexual dysfunction heralds life threatening complications in diabetic men[/title]

[date]27 October 2004[/date]


 Sexual dysfunction heralds life threatening complications in diabetic 
 men
 
A recent study conducted by The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 on the sex life of middle aged men with diabetes revealed that as 
 many as 70% had reduced sex drive and performance, felt the need to 
 reduce sexual activities due to their illness and expressed lack of 
 confidence and satisfaction with their sex life. Experts advised men 
 with diabetes should adopt an open attitude towards their sex life, 
 increase their communication with their partners and seek advice from 
 their doctors to regain their confidence should they encounter problems.
The 
 survey was conducted at the Prince of Wales Hospital in July last 
 year involving 123 Hong Kong Chinese men with diabetes aged between 
 41 and 64 years old who had various duration of disease. 'The objective 
 of the study was to improve our understanding of the quality of sex 
 life of middle aged men with diabetes and their impacts on physical 
 health and general well being. We hope this information will allow 
 us to counsel our patients more effectively in our attempt to improve 
 their quality of life', said Professor Juliana Chan Chung-ngor, Professor 
 of the Department Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK, who initiated the 
 survey. In this study, patients' libido, confidence in maintaining 
 erection, sexual performance and satisfaction as well as their mental 
 and physical health were comprehensively evaluated.
Amongst 
 these 123 Chinese middle aged men, 40.2% admitted to having reduced 
 sex desire, 36.9% felt a need to reduce sexual activities due to their 
 illness, 41.8% felt that their sexual performance had declined, 49.6% 
 did not have confidence in having or maintaining penile erection, 
 72.7% had reduced sexual performance and 60.7% were not satisfied 
 with their sexual performance. Importantly, all these disturbances 
 in sexual function or desire, either objectively or subjectively, 
 were associated with long duration of disease, high blood pressure, 
 increased protein in urine and reduced kidney function. These pointers 
 in turn are associated with substantially increased risk of kidney 
 failure and heart disease in diabetic patients.
'These 
 data highlight the enormous impacts of diabetes on patients' sex life, 
 apart from avoiding sex, patients often under perform or are not satisfied 
 with their performance. These will inevitably put strains on marital 
 relationships. We strongly advise that diabetic patients should discuss 
 with their doctors openly about these problems so as to find ways 
 to resolve them to improve their quality of life', said Dr. WB Chan, 
 Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine and 
 Therapeutics, CUHK, remarked.
In 
 keeping with the data collected from the Prince of Wales Hospital, 
 a survey conducted in a Community Diabetes Centre, a health awareness 
 program supported by CUHK, involving 88 diabetic patients conducted 
 between July and October this year also revealed similar results. 
 Dr. Norman Chan, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics of CUHK said, "More than 50% of middle 
 aged men with diabetes had reduced libido and were not satisfied with 
 their sex life. Only 60% of these patients with erectile dysfunction 
 sought medical advice while 16% simply stopped having sex. These findings 
 are in full agreement with many international studies where 50% of 
 diabetic men have varying degrees of erectile dysfunction. Besides, 
 apart from diabetes, there are other hormonal and psychological causes 
 which can present with impotence or sexual dysfunction. Hence, both 
 diabetic and non diabetic men with these complaints must consult their 
 doctors for comprehensive assessments."
"We 
 need to emphasize that sexual dysfunction, notably, erectile dysfunction, 
 may be associated with silent risk factors such as high blood pressure 
 and increased protein in the urine. Based on a survey of more than 
 3000 diabetic patients, those with increased protein in urine have 
 3 times increased risk of death (30% in 10 years) compared to those 
 without. Diabetic patients often have multiple risk factors and failure 
 to achieve target values of these risk factors can substantially increase 
 the risk of death, heart disease and kidney failure," added Professor 
 Juliana Chan. Middle aged men with sexual dysfunction must take their 
 condition seriously and seek medical advice. Due to the common nature 
 of these chronic conditions, middle aged men should have regular medical 
 check AND follow up to preserve their health and quality of life. 
 



 
