[title]Experts Investigate Important Corporate Governance Issues in China and Asia[/title]

[date]11 March 2005[/date]


 Experts Investigate Important Corporate Governance Issues in China 
 and Asia 
 
The "International Conference on Corporate Governance in China 
 and Asia" organized by the Center for Institutions and Governance 
 and the School of Accountancy at The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 together with the Shanghai University of Finance and Economics opened 
 today at Shanghai.
The 
 three-day Conference convened top scholars in the area of corporate 
 governance from the East and the West to discuss important corporate 
 governance issues of China and Asia. Speakers are all experts from 
 renowned institutions such as the Yale University, University of Southern 
 California, the University of Alberta, the University of North Carolina 
 - Chapel Hill and World Bank.
Professor 
 Wong Tak Jun, Director of the CUHK's Center for Institutions and Governance, 
 Chair Professor of Accountancy and Associate Dean of Research at the 
 Faculty of Business Administration, believed that the conference will 
 facilitate interactions among industry participants, "We are pleased 
 to organize this international conference to bring in top scholars 
 and industry experts to explore and evaluate crucial corporate governance 
 issues in China and Asia. Topics to be discussed are all of timely 
 relevance such as property rights protection and corporate governance; 
 public sector governance and corporate governance; the roles of corporate 
 governance in corporate finance and economic development; accounting 
 disclosure, earning management, and corporate transparency issues; 
 the roles of information intermediaries in corporate governance and 
 the roles of institutional investors in corporate governance."
"This 
 is actually one of the key initiatives from our Center. The Center 
 is set up to promote high quality research and education on corporate 
 governance issues in Asia and China, and it has actively sponsored 
 activities that help build the needed infrastructures for high quality 
 research; providing a platform for scholarly exchanges of research 
 results, and knowledge transfer between researchers and business communities."
The 
 Center has published numerous research papers in leading international 
 journals such as the International Review of Finance, the Journal 
 of Accounting and Economics, the Journal of Accounting Research and 
 the Journal of Corporate Finance. It also sponsors numerous ongoing 
 research projects such as family firm succession in Asia, the market 
 for auditors in China, the emergence of hierarchical organizational 
 structure of Chinese business groups, political connections and the 
 governance and performance of Chinese firms.
One 
 of the studies recently completed by the Center on political connections 
 and firm performance of Chinese listed firms was presented at the 
 American Finance Association annual meeting on 7 January 2005. Titled 
 "Politically-connected CEOs, Corporate Governance and Post-IPO Performance 
 of China's Partially Privatized Firms", the study reports that 28% 
 of the CEOs in the sample of 617 mainland listed firms have political 
 connections, either having served or currently serving as government 
 bureaucrats. Co-authored by Prof. Wong and Professor Joseph Fan, Deputy 
 Director of the Center, the study suggests that the political connection 
 of the CEOs seems to hurt rather than help firm performance. It also 
 finds that mainland IPO firms are poor performers in the stock market 
 and firms with politically-connected CEOs perform even worse. The 
 three-year post-IPO stock returns of the sample underperform the market 
 by 23%, and the underperformance of firms with such politically-connected 
 CEOs exceeds those without politically-connected CEOs by 37%.
The 
 study provides a clue why firms with politically-connected CEOs perform 
 worse after the IPO. A detailed analysis of the board composition 
 at the IPO shows that firms with politically-connected CEOs are more 
 likely to appoint other bureaucrats to the management teams and boards 
 of directors, while they appoint fewer directors with relevant professional 
 background or prior business experience, nor any representative of 
 minority shareholders. Overall, the results of the study indicate 
 that the appointment of politically-connected CEOs does not enhance 
 firm efficiency but rather fulfill political goals of politicians.
Prof. 
 Wong said, "This kind of high quality research will draw together 
 experts from the fields of accounting, economics and finance to address 
 how Asia's various institutional environments shape the governance 
 and economic behaviors of corporations and their agents."
 Please visit the website of the CUHK's Center for Institutions and 
 Governance: http://www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk/research/cig/
 
 For details of the "International Conference on Corporate Governance 
 in China and Asia", please visit: http://www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk/research/cig/events_program.htm



 
