[title]Anticipate Change and Reinvent Yourselves is Key to Survival, Li and Fung CEO Advised at CUHK EMBA "Talking to CEOs" Show[/title]

[date]17 April 2003[/date]


Anticipate Change and Reinvent Yourselves is Key to Survival, 
 Li and Fung CEO Advised at CUHK EMBA "Talking to CEOs" Show
 
The typical Li and Fung employee is someone armed with a parachute 
 to help him land even in the remotest part of the world, a sharp knife 
 to cut his way to reach the lowest-cost producer, and a Nokia phone 
 to communicate with his supervisor, customer, logistics provider and 
 anyone else needed to conclude a deal. 
It may sound a bit out 
 of this world, but this is what it takes to survive in today's competitive 
 business environment, said Dr.William Fung, Group Managing Director 
 of Li and Fung Ltd. This also represents the core value which his company 
 brings: sourcing the highest-quality, lowest-priced goods for customers 
 around the world and deliver them in the shortest time possible. 
He was speaking to a packed 
 audience of students, alumni and professors of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong's EMBA and MBA Programmes, at the "Talking to CEOs" show 
 co-hosted by Mr. Robert Chow Yung of RTHK and Professor Andrew Chan, 
 Director of the University's EMBA Programme, on March 18, 2003. 
Li and Fung is running a 
 de facto global "smokeless, virtual factory", according to Dr. Fung. 
 It is a prime example of the service industry in a fiercely competitive 
 area. Operating 67 offices in 40 countries with over 5,300 employees 
 and an annual (2002) turnover of HK$33 billion also poses a management 
 challenge. Professor Chan noted that supply chain management (SCM) is 
 not a new concept, and Li and Fung is certainly not the only company providing 
 such service. Many have fallen by the wayside, yet Li and Fung has flourished, 
 doubling profits every three years for the past six years. What is the 
 magic formula of success? 
The company has a great 
 foundation, said Dr. Fung, built by a partnership of Li and Fung in 
 1906. The company's management concept is to take the best of breeds 
 in western and traditional Chinese philosophy. In his view, management 
 is essentially a "people" issue. Some elements of western management 
 style -- such as those advocated and practised by ex-GE Chairman Jack 
 Welch, i.e. annual elimination of the bottom 10% performers to boost 
 employee productivity -- may sound good in theory, but are not necessarily 
 in the long-term interest of the company. 
He subscribes to his father's 
 view that management is a two-way street: you look after your employees 
 and they will look after you. It is also important to accept that people 
 are not machines and no one can maintain 100 per cent efficiency at 
 all times. 
Even though Li and Fung 
 as a multinational corporation seeks to adapt to the local culture, 
 certain core values, such as that described above, remain integral to 
 its company culture. 
The key to managing a 
 geographically diverse company is good training for staff and good communications 
 at all times. Teamwork is crucial. In a 5,300-employee company, it is 
 unrealistic to expect all decisions to come from one or two persons. 
 
He and elder brother Victor, 
 whom he refers to as a visionary, recognize that most people in Hong 
 Kong want ultimately to be their own boss. They have, therefore, structured 
 Li and Fung to cater for these "Intrepreneurs". There are 130 units in 
 the company, each structured as a self-contained profit center, run 
 by an entrepreneur who is very good at his particular line of business. 
 Li and Fung provides the infrastructure, facilities and other forms of 
 support such as IT, HR, administration and finance. In short, the objective 
 is to "give wings to these tigers so they can fly." 
Professor Chan noted that 
 Dr. Fung, as the company CEO, is not the highest-paid executive on the 
 payroll. Does it bother him? 
No, responded Dr. Fung, 
 with vigor. "It is in fact a good thing because it means that the company 
 is doing well". A CEO's job, in his view, is to always keep an open 
 mind, and help staff achieve their objectives. 
What's Li and Fung's competitive 
 edge? 
Ability to adjust constantly 
 to the changing dynamics of the marketplace, have the vision to judge 
 where the world is going and position the business accordingly, said 
 Dr. Fung. Most organizations have rotational five-year business plans. 
 However, Li and Fung has found that fixed three-year plans are more realistic 
 in the contemporary business world. It is absolutely essential to anticipate 
 change, strive for constant improvement and be prepared to reinvent 
 the company, to start from zero base if necessary, and above all, institutionalize 
 the change. 
Dr. Fung was emphatic 
 about the potential of the Pearl River Delta and opportunities for supply 
 chain management services. The market is huge, he stressed. A SCM service 
 provider should have sights on not just the Pearl River Delta, but also 
 the entire world. A new entrant to this market, however, would be well-advised 
 to start small and focus on a specific product or country. 
A "radical outsourcing" 
 concept is taking root in the U.S. now, he pointed out. The increased 
 competition and social compliance and environment-related requirements 
 imposed by developed countries have heightened the need for service 
 providers like Li and Fung. Take Disney as an example. It used to have 
 five sourcing sites around the world with 300 employees. To cope with 
 the vast-expanded product lines, it would now need 18 sourcing sites 
 in order to cover the vastly-expanded product lines. After due consideration, 
 it decided that it would be far more cost-effective to hire Li and Fung 
 for the job. 
What particular skill 
 set must the SCM service provider possess? 
Professional and technical 
 skills of the products in question plus marketing skills are the pre-requisites 
 - these are the "value-add" that the SCM provider brings. 
In this connection, China 
 is significant both as the supplier for the rest of the world and as 
 a consumer market. In line with its obligations under the WTO, China 
 will open its market in three years. This transition offers huge potential 
 because the market is not mature yet, thus providing opportunities for 
 Hong Kong companies. However, the window of opportunity is small - probably 
 two or three years. 
Dr. Fung has no doubt 
 about Hong Kong's competitive advantages. At the macro level, economies 
 around the world are facing problems with the exception of China, and 
 Hong Kong is very lucky to be at the doorstep of this market. Hong Kong 
 can serve as China's window to the world for newly listed Chinese corporations. 
 Shanghai, on the other hand, can help foreign companies to market to 
 China's domestic market. 
How is Li and Fung reacting 
 to the current difficulties? 
Every generation would 
 face one turmoil or another, said Dr. Fung. The goal is to make the 
 company flexible so that it can withstand turmoils. He believes that 
 the model of vertically integrated corporations is out of date, and 
 future companies would be part of an inter-connected network. 
There will always be ups 
 and downs in life, he reminded the audience, but what goes down will 
 always come up again. He thinks that Hong Kong's young people are well 
 positioned. While the standard has dropped somewhat, still they have 
 generally good language skills and flexible attitude. Overall, he is 
 very optimistic about the future. 
And Dr. Fung has good 
 reasons to be optimistic. Less than a week after the "Talking to CEOs" 
 show, Li and Fung announced its 2002 final results. Its net profits rose 
 38 per cent to surpass $1 billion on a record turnover of HK$37 billion. 
 
Dr. William Fung is Group 
 Managing Director of Li and Fung Limited, a third-generation family concern 
 that he has helped transform into a multinational trading company with 
 a sourcing network of over 30 countries and an annual turnover of more 
 than US$4 billion. US-based BusinessWeek magazine ranked him 
 among the world's Top 25 Managers in 1995, and one of the 50 Stars of 
 Asia in 2000. Together with his brother, Dr. Victor K. Fung, he was 
 also awarded the Emerging Markets CEO of the Year by Euromoney 
 in 2000. 
In the public service 
 arena, Dr. Fung has held key positions in major trade associations. 
 He is the past Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, 
 the Hong Kong Exporters' Association and the Hong Kong Committee for 
 Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (PECC). 
Dr. Fung graduated from 
 Princeton University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering 
 and also holds an MBA degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business. 
 He was conferred an Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration by 
 the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 1999. Currently, 
 he is also a Council Member of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and 
 a Court Member of the University of Science and Technology. 
Dr. Fung is also Non Executive 
 Director of HSBC Holdings PLC, CLP Holdings Limited, chinadotcom corporation 
 and Vtech Holdings Limited. 

 
