[title]New Use of Bone Anchored Hearing Aid[/title]

[date]2 February 2004[/date]


 New Use of Bone Anchored Hearing Aid
 Helps Nasopharyngeal Cancer Patients Restore Hearing 
 
In current trials of a hearing aid that is directly and permanently 
 anchored to the skull behind the ear, doctors at Hong Kong's Prince 
 of Wales Hospital, the teaching hospital of The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong, report significant hearing improvements in patients with 
 hearing loss caused by complications arising from radiation therapy 
 for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The device also shows to increase 
 patient satisfaction, set to improve quality of life and bring socioeconomic 
 benefits, researchers say.
The 
 device, the bone anchored hearing aid (BAHA), has been successfully 
 used since 1996, to assist patients with hearing disabilities arising 
 from other causes at the Prince of Wales Hospital. This is the first 
 time that the BAHA has been used to offer improved results to patients 
 with this particular cancer, which is well-known for its high prevalence 
 in southern China.
The 
 BAHA is anchored to the skull by a tiny titanium screw. Instead of sounds 
 entering the outer ear canal and impinging on the eardrum as in normal 
 hearing, the sounds amplified by the device are conducted through the 
 screw and the bones of the skull to the cochlea, the snail-shaped inner 
 ear structure responsible for converting sounds into electrical signals 
 carried to the brain by the auditory nerve.
Dr Gordon 
 Soo, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Division of Otorhinolaryngology 
 of the Department of Surgery, CUHK, who is directing the clinical research 
 team involved said, "Radiation therapy has proved highly successful 
 in curing this particular cancer but among its frequent side effects 
 are damage to the delicate structures of the ear and different types 
 of hearing loss." 
"Patients 
 cured of this cancer," he continued, "may often have an ear discharge, 
 ear canal ulceration or other complications arising from the therapy. 
 This can make the wearing of a conventional hearing aid problematic 
 or even impossible. So far in our studies we have been delighted with 
 the levels of satisfaction being reported by patients fitted with a 
 BAHA."
NPC 
 is found worldwide, but its particularly high prevalence in Hong Kong 
 and southern China generally - around 32 new cases yearly per 100,000 
 of the population - has led to its being called the "Cantonese cancer".
Its 
 consequences extend far beyond the devastating effect on the patients 
 themselves to involve their families, friends and colleagues. In particular, 
 because most people contract NPC at an age when their earning powers 
 are at their highest, it is vital both economically and for their self-esteem 
 that they return to productive work. This is a very challenging proposition 
 for the newly hearing-impaired, particularly those who cannot successfully 
 use conventional hearing aids.
Over 
 and above the observed improvements in hearing and the expected upturn 
 in quality of life that the BAHA brings, the pioneering use of the device 
 should thus, the researchers consider, have a marked socioeconomic impact 
 on the affected families, where there were 1,120 new cases in 2000 in 
 Hong Kong alone. More and beyond Hong Kong, NPC afflicts an estimated 
 13,220 new cases in Guangdong each year. Regional countries such as 
 Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand have an estimated 900, 6,000 and 7,800 
 new cases annually. Indeed the BAHA could everywhere bring benefits 
 as NPC has a worldwide distribution. For a disease with which such a 
 wide reach, the impact could indeed be global. 
How does 
 the BAHA work?
 
 

 
