[title]Joint Graduate Partnership Program Launched for Local PhD Candidates[/title]

[date]12 December 2003[/date]


 Combining CUHK's Excellence in Biochemistry and NIH Research Strength
 Joint Graduate Partnership Program Launched for Local PhD Candidates 
 
 
The Department of Biochemistry of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 (CUHK) and The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
 (NICHD) of The National Institutes of Health (NIH), USA, jointly offer 
 a Graduate Partnership Program (GPP) leading to a PhD degree awarded 
 by CUHK in Hong Kong. Students enrolled in GPP will spend one year at 
 CUHK for work and three years at NICHD, participating in research work 
 in the center. CUHK is NIH's first partner in Asia of the program.
NIH 
 is a world's premier biomedical research organization. Thousands of 
 investigators at the NIH conduct research in basic and clinical biomedical 
 sciences in more than 20 NIH Institutes and Centers such as NICHD and 
 National Cancer Institute. These investigators including many Nobel 
 laureates work in unparalleled research facilities on cutting edge projects. 
 NIH has partnered with many notable institutes such as Boston University, 
 John Hopkins University and Oxford University and been training over 
 200 graduates in NIH laboratories. In Asia, CUHK is the only partner 
 to provide such training to our graduate students, which is a recognition 
 of the excellence in research and teaching of the Department of the 
 Biochemistry, CUHK.
Professor 
 Walter Ho, Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, said the selection 
 of candidates to join the GPP is very strict. Candidates should have 
 a solid background on the knowledge and experimental skills of their 
 project; good academic achievements and recommendations, and have shown 
 outstanding performance during interview. This year, two candidates 
 will be sent to NICHD. The Program not only provides excellent training 
 for our students, but also gains the Department a closer relationship 
 with the world most prestigious biomedical research establishment.
Since 
 its inception in 1971, the Department of Biochemistry of CUHK has striven 
 for excellence in teaching and research. In the past 32 years, the Department 
 trained more than 300 MPhil and PhD graduates. In recent years, the 
 number of postgraduate students has increased over two-folds. There 
 were about 10 MPhil students each year before 1997. Now the number has 
 doubled. The spectrum of careers is also very wide. Some will join prestigious 
 institutes as teachers or post-doctorals. Some will join the industry 
 or government, continuing their biomedical research. Last year, our 
 research on 'Traditional Chinese Medicine' was chosen by the University 
 Grant Council, HKSAR, as an area of excellence in research. In addition, 
 'Genomics' and 'Fish Molecular Biology' are also recognized as strategic 
 research areas in the Department. 
 

 
