
[title]CUHK and HKIEd Councils approve principles for deep collaboration[/title]

 




[date]24 June 2005[/date]

Teacher 
 Education Turns a New Page
CUHK 
 and HKIEd Councils Approve Principles for Deep Collaboration 
 The advancement of teacher education in Hong Kong and in the region 
 will turn a new page as the Councils of two major providers, The 
 Hong Kong Institute of Education (HKIEd) and The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong (CUHK), in their respective meetings today (24 June), 
 approved a set of common principles to guide the exploration of 
 deep collaboration.
The 
 principles were recommended by the CUHK-HKIEd Task Force on Deep 
 Collaboration which was jointly set up by the heads of the two institutions 
 earlier on. The Task Force, after initial deliberations and consultations 
 with staff and students on the two campuses, recommended that the 
 two institutions should first focus on the coming two triennia (2005-08 
 and 2008-11) and that in taking forward the exploration of deep 
 collaboration the following should be the guiding principles:
1. 
 CUHK and HKIEd would formally start exploring the possibility of 
 a deep collaboration which is in the interest of providing the best 
 teacher education for Hong Kong and the region, and for the long 
 term benefit of both institutions.
2. 
 The collaboration is to be developed for the academic and professional 
 enhancement of teacher education in Hong Kong and the region, and 
 is not meant for resource saving purposes.
3. 
 Both institutions affirm their position that public funds for education 
 in Hong Kong should be increased. It is expected that extra resources 
 will be provided by the government for this deep collaboration between 
 the two institutions, to support the spirit of cooperation and the 
 level of excellence to be achieved.
4. 
 No elimination or downsizing of overlapping departments will be 
 considered. Merger is not part of the discussion.
5. 
 Each institution will be guided by the principles that its Council 
 has adopted or may from time to time adopt.
6. 
 During these two triennia, the two institutions will continue largely 
 with their present governance, and operate on their respective existing 
 campuses. Appropriate changes might be adopted for the second triennium 
 upon mutual consent.
The 
 two institutions believe that they can capitalise on each other's 
 strengths which are complementary and synergistic. Together they 
 can create a critical mass of research and teaching expertise and 
 resources unprecedented in Hong Kong, providing for the professional 
 and academic education of teachers to serve in Hong Kong's kindergartens, 
 primary, secondary, vocational and tertiary institutions.
The 
 UGC was informed in early June. It has expressed support of the 
 initiative and indicated that it would be happy to receive, at an 
 appropriate time, a joint submission from both institutions seeking 
 additional financial support of this initiative in this and / or 
 the next triennium. The Task Force will hold further discussions 
 towards a mid- to long-term collaboration framework, within which 
 various joint efforts can be discussed and launched. 
 
 



 
