[title]CUHK organizes Symposium for Hygiene Charter[/title]

[date]13 June 2003[/date]


Community United to Take Hygiene to New Levels
CUHK organizes Symposium for Hygiene Charter
 
Individuals and representatives from various business and industry 
 sectors who have adopted the Hygiene Charter convened today at The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to pledge their commitment to and share 
 experience of improving hygiene practices in the fight against SARS 
 for the future of Hong Kong. 
The Symposium for Hygiene 
 Charter, which took place on Friday, 13 June 2003 at Lecture Theatre 
 1, Esther Lee Building on Chinese University campus, is a continuing 
 effort of the Hong Kong community to take positive action and assume 
 individual and corporate responsibilities to increase awareness of hygiene 
 and create a new culture of hygiene practices. 
Guests of the Symposium 
 included Dr. Rosanna Wong, the Convener of Operation UNITE, Professor 
 Kenneth Young, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK, Professor Sydney Chung, Dean 
 of Faculty of Medicine, CUHK, Professor LEE Shiu-hung, former Director 
 of Health and Emeritus Professor of Community Medicine, CUHK, the Hon. 
 Dr. LO Wing-lok and the Hon. Bernard Chan, members of the Legislative 
 Council, and Ms Pamela Chan of Consumer Council. Leaders from various 
 sectors including catering, estate management, transport, social services 
 and education also shared their experience.
 
The Hygiene Charter, 
 launched on 13 May 2003, is a community initiative supported by over 
 10 different business and industry sectors to pledge their long-term 
 commitment to create a healthy and hygienic environment for Hong Kong. 
 It is part of Operation UNITE's action oriented campaign to draw the 
 community together to fight against the challenges posed by SARS. To 
 date, over 7,000 individuals and organisations have adopted the Hygiene 
 Charter. 
 
CUHK has participated 
 in drawing up the Hygienic Charter. In order to sustain the effort to 
 adopt the Hygiene Charter and translate the principle of prevention 
 into effective, practical and user-friendly procedures, CUHK together 
 with Operation UNITE organized the public symposium. 
Although we are all delighted 
 to see the decline of SARS cases, we must not downgrade our awareness 
 of prevention. The public should take this opportunity to equip themselves 
 the skills in maintaining good standard of hygiene and advancement of 
 health education knowledge. With the experience gathered in the clinical 
 management of SARS patients, our knowledge on medical technology, the 
 virus, the possible modes of transmission, the epidemiology of the disease 
 and the evidence-based management, and our established relationship 
 with the World Health Organization, CUHK is most pleased to share the 
 essence of effective preventive measures that can be adopted by the 
 community with the Hygiene Charter and help sustaining the community's 
 effort in fighting SARS and building a better environment for Hong Kong. 
 

 
