[title]Mobile Technologies Centre (MobiTeC) launches in CUHK[/title]

[date]19 November 2003[/date]


 Mobile Technologies Centre (MobiTeC) launches in 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announced today the establishment 
 of the Mobile Technologies Centre (MobiTeC) at its Faculty of Engineering. 
 MobiTeC aims to contribute to the advancement of mobile technology in 
 the industry by conducting high-end RandD, facilitating technology transfer 
 of applied RandD to the market, nurturing technical talents, and developing 
 methodologies and techniques to gauge performance indexes and improve 
 the quality of service (QoS) of wireless data services in Hong Kong.
The 
 number of mobile phone users in Hong Kong ranks among the top worldwide. 
 Up to August this year, the penetration rate of mobile phones in Hong 
 Kong has reached 98.2%, representing over 6.6 million users. Apart from 
 conventional voice applications, users' demand for better service in 
 mobile networking, content delivery quality, and innovative wireless 
 services including MMS and SMS keep escalating. MobiTeC hopes to extend 
 its linkages with mobile communication companies locally, nationally 
 as well as internationally, with the aim to further enhance the functions 
 and technologies of mobile phone applications.
The 
 Faculty of Engineering boasts world-class laboratories and scholars 
 in the RandD of wireless communication. The newly launched MobiTeC will 
 be headed by Professor OnChing Yue of the Department of Information 
 Engineering at CUHK. Once an RandD director in the prominent Bell Labs, 
 Lucent Technologies, Professor Yue holds 11 patents and enjoys worldwide 
 reputation in QoS research and development in mobile technologies. Under 
 the capable leadership of Professor Yue, the Centre will make vast contribution 
 to the advancement of mobile technologies both locally and internationally.
"MobiTeC 
 will become an important interface between the academia and the industry. 
 It will instill into the industry novel research ideas and technologies, 
 that is vital to keeping the technology advancing," Professor Kenneth 
 Young, Acting Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said at the ceremony today.
"It 
 has always been the aim of the Engineering Faculty of the Chinese University 
 to transfer its high-end technology to the industry, which will bring 
 forth mutual benefits to both parties. Already, there have been a number 
 of successful technology transfer cases at CUHK."
To name 
 but a few, these success stories undertaken by members of the Faculty 
 of Engineering at CUHK related to wireless communication include: a 
 preliminary study to compare the QoS of different wireless networks 
 and provision of recommendations for improvement; licensing the Video2MMSTM 
 technologies to enable the services of delivering video clips of news 
 and weather bulletins to mobile phone subscribers; developing mobile 
 games which have been launched and well-received in the market; creating 
 Cantonese text-to-speech Web Services solution for telephone applications; 
 and developing new protocols for 3G standards, etc.
Professor 
 Ching Pak-chung, Dean of the Faculty of Engineering at CUHK expressed 
 his gratitude towards the Commerce, Industry and Technology Bureau as 
 well as the Office of the Telecommunications Authority, for the support 
 and guidance they have given to the Faculty all along. Professor Ching 
 is particularly thankful to SmarTone Mobile Communications Limited and 
 Ericsson Limited for the unfailing support and generous donations given 
 in support of the research development of the University. Both companies 
 have provided the most needed opinions and encouragement, which enable 
 MobiTeC to start up within a short period of time. Professor Ching very 
 much hoped that collaboration with the industry could continue to foster 
 at all levels so that MobiTeC could further develop different research 
 projects.
"Committed 
 to the development of the mobile industry in Hong Kong, SmarTone is 
 very pleased to contribute to the establishment of the Mobile Technologies 
 Centre, which will forge closer co-operation between the academia and 
 the industry to facilitate technological advancement and nurture new 
 talents," said Mr Douglas Li, Chief Executive Officer of SmarTone Mobile 
 Communications Limited. "We believe Hong Kong could spearhead the development 
 of mobile multimedia services if the industry continues to strive for 
 excellence in new product development and to deliver superior service 
 quality in the realm of mobile data services."
Mr Stephen 
 Yeung, Managing Director of Ericsson Limited also expressed his delight 
 in the establishment of MobiTeC. He said, "As a leading communications 
 solution provider, Ericsson is pleased to support the establishment 
 of the Mobile Technologies Centre as it enables the industry to work 
 with the academia to explore solutions that facilitate the development 
 of mobile technologies. The Center will no doubt make a significant 
 contribution to further Hong Kong's telecommunications development."
The 
 Ceremony announcing the establishment of the Mobile Technologies Centre 
 today was officiated by Mr Francis Ho, Permanent Secretary for Commerce, 
 Industry and Technology (Communications and Technology); Mr M. H. Au, 
 Director-General of Telecommunications; Mr Douglas Li, Chief Executive 
 Officer of SmarTone Mobile Communications Limited; Mr Stephen Yeung, 
 Managing Director of Ericsson Limited; Professor Kenneth Young, Acting 
 Vice-Chancellor and Professor Ching Pak-chung, Dean of Engineering at 
 CUHK. Professor OnChing Yue, Director of the Mobile Technology Centre 
 gave a presentation on the vision and research focus of the Centre at 
 the Ceremony. 
 


 
