
[title]Leading Industry Experts and Academics Investigate Collaboration on RFID-enabled Supply Chains and Logistics in Asia[/title]

 




[date]30 June 2005[/date]

Leading 
 Industry Experts and Academics Investigate Collaboration on 
 RFID-enabled Supply Chains and Logistics in Asia 
 
The Center of Cyber Logistics at The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong organized an open forum on "RFID-enabled Supply Chains and 
 Logistics in Asia" today to investigate the relevant issues crucial 
 to the latest development of the RFID technology in supply chains 
 and logistics in Asia. 
With 
 an aim to accentuate imperative collaboration and highlight the 
 economic, strategic, technological issues of RFID-enabled supply 
 chains and logistics in Asia, the forum successfully brought together 
 experts and researchers in Asia to share and exchange their own 
 experience with other partners in the region. The forum attracted 
 around 100 participants including academics, government representatives 
 and key industry players such as the Airport Authority Hong Kong, 
 Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd, Asia Airfreight Terminal, Cathay 
 Pacific Cargo, DHL, Dimerco Air Forwarders (HK) Ltd, Hong Kong Science 
 and Technology Parks Corporation, GS1 Hong Kong, Kerry Logistics 
 and Liand Fung etc. 
Researchers 
 from the CUHK's Center of Cyber Logistics, including Professor Waiman 
 Cheung, Professor Chu Sung-Chi and Professor Timon Du shared with 
 the audience crucial issues including privacy and security, standardization 
 and IT architecture and development on RFID. Other industry speakers 
 included Mr. Howard Eng Liu-chor, Airport Management Director of 
 the Airport Authority Hong Kong who talked about RFID for baggage 
 handling at the Hong Kong International Airport; Mr. Nienchu Wu, 
 Director of ClarIdy Solutions in Taiwan who talked about RFID Applications 
 and Technological Approaches in Taiwan and Mr. Yeoh Wooi Gan, Technical 
 Manager of Institute of Microelectronics in Singapore who talked 
 about RFID landscape in Singapore. Academics included Ms Yukiko 
 Yumoto, Associate Director of the Auto-ID Lab of Keio University 
 in Japan and Professor Min Mao, Director of the Auto-ID Lab of Fudan 
 University in Shanghai. They also shared the issues and research 
 findings in their respective countries. Ms Janice Tse, Deputy Secretary 
 for Economic Development and Labour of the HKSAR Government also 
 delivered opening remarks to the audience and Mr. Elwin Loomis, 
 Chief Information Officer of SML Group Limited talked about RFID 
 for retailing. 
The 
 forum featured a roundtable discussion titled "Sifting Through RFID 
 Hodgepodge in Asia" to begin the process of charting the course 
 for Asia to lead in the adoption of RFID technologies, and to provide 
 successful stories, showcases and guidelines for reference and enhancing 
 harmony in global RFID adoption. Panelists included Ms Anna Lin, 
 Chief Executive of GS1, Ms Yukiko Yumoto, Associate Director of 
 the Auto-ID Lab at Keio University, Professor Ming Mao, Director 
 of the Auto-ID Lab of Fudan University, Mr. Yeoh Wooi Gan, Technical 
 Manager of Institute of Microelectronics and Mr. Paul Cheng, CEO 
 of Autotoll HK Limited. 
Pervasive 
 RFID technologies present opportunities and challenges to partners 
 in supply chains and logistics globally. Individually, companies 
 in supply chains discern the positive benefits of RFID. Costs remain 
 to be the key concern though amenable in the near future. When partners 
 leverage the same exact technologies collectively to achieve advantages 
 over competitive supply chains and logistics services, costs effectiveness 
 may not be the only one concern. That is, one of the challenges 
 revolves around end-to-end information management, especially related 
 to privacy and security, coupled likely with a neutral global third 
 party EPC-based information network. The Hong Kong SAR government 
 through the Innovation and Technology Commission (ITC) has committed 
 supports for the development of the first EPCglobal Network locally 
 by GS1. The network facilitates supply chain visibility for companies 
 with manufacturing base in the PRD. Technology solutions providers 
 continue to develop software, hardware and middleware to ease the 
 pain of adopting RFID in business processes. 
Professor 
 Waiman Cheung, Director of the CUHK's Center of Cyber Logistics 
 said, "With wide support from industries in Hong Kong, a consortium 
 was formed last year to study the privacy and security issue in 
 the RFID-driven business integration and our Center has been collaborating 
 and leading research studies in this area. We are grateful to have 
 received tremendous support from consortium members to carry out 
 research. We are also pleased to participate and contribute to the 
 government's project of GS1 on the privacy and security issues." 
 
"Obviously, 
 RFID technologies and their swift adoption will propel supply chains 
 and logistics industry into a new era. Yet, the efforts will be 
 collaborative in nature and involve many: from across business chains, 
 solution providers, technology companies, standardization organizations, 
 as well as global and regional policy makers. In Asia region, we 
 have noted advantages such as the three of seven Auto-ID Labs along 
 with the localized EPCglobal network development, the vast manufacturing 
 base of the globe, with about 70,000 manufacturing plants owned 
 and managed by Hong Kong companies, key supply chain hubs in textiles, 
 electronics, shoes, and toys, etc. We have a unique opportunity 
 to expedite collaborative efforts that are pivotal in bringing the 
 first RFID-enabled business chains online. We must lead and the 
 time is now. Our aim therefore is to leverage these regional advantages 
 to facilitate and mobilize the adoption of RFID in supply chain 
 management and logistics, so that we can enhance collaboration across 
 the countries in Asia and learn from the experience of each other. 
 This will allow us to take the initiative to play a key role in 
 the development of RFID technology." 

Professor 
 Waiman Cheung, Director, the Center of Cyber Logistics, 
 CUHK
  
 



 
