[title]The "Little Life Warriors" join hands to brighten Hong Kong[/title]

[date]23 August 2003[/date]


 "Little Life Warriors" join hands to brighten Hong Kong 
 
The Little Life Warrior Society was founded in 2002 with the members 
 mainly from the medical and nursing staff, patients and their parents 
 of Lady Pao Children's Cancer Centre, Prince of Wales Hospital and Department 
 of Paediatrics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The main objective 
 of the Society is to promote the communication between patients and 
 their parents to foster the mutual support. The Society also provides 
 an additional channel to let the general public know more about children 
 cancer through organizing various activities.
The Society held their 
 first Annual General Meeting and hosted a party for over 300 childhood 
 cancer survivors and their family members at the School of Public Health 
 Building, Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 on 23rd August 2003. About 30 members from the Society recently formed 
 the Little Life Warriors Choir. They sang songs to glorify the values 
 of life, and encourage Hong Kong people to stay positive during difficult 
 times. They love Hong Kong, their home place, by putting words into 
 actions. They joined hands with BrightenHK Campaign by drawing pictures 
 for inclusion in the BrightenHK collection of eCards in promoting Hong 
 Kong's spirit.
Dr. Shing Ming Kong, Chairman 
 of the Little Life Warrior Society and Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor 
 of the Department of Paediatrics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 recalled how Hong Kong was seriously hit by SARS from March to June. 
 The Lady Pao Children's Cancer Centre (CCC) came under great threat 
 as it is located within the Prince of Wales Hospital compound. There 
 has been no infected case found in the CCC as the Centre has implemented 
 a series of preventive measures for the protection of its young patients.
"Life is full of challenges 
 and crises for everyone. I am really impressed and touched by the courage 
 of the childhood cancer survivors who fought their life battles in such 
 a positive manner. This reminds me the spirit of Hong Kong - we should 
 be able to rebuild our confidence and excel after the SARS crisis", 
 said by Dr. Elizabeth Quat, BrightenHK Campaign Convener.
The "BrightenHK Campaign" 
 was initiated by the Internet Professionals Association (iProA), The 
 Outstanding Young Persons' Association, The Better Hong Kong Foundation 
 and the World Trade Centers Association. The campaign aims to unite 
 Hong Kong people and boost confidence against the impact of SARS. A 
 portal (www.BrightenHK.org.hk) is built to inform the world of accurate 
 and positive information about Hong Kong, in order to reinforce Hong 
 Kong's international image. 

 
