[title]CUHK Draws Attention to High Prevalence of Depression 
Amongst Cancer Patients in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]26 July 2004[/date]


 Working to Improve Mental Health
 CUHK Draws Attention to High Prevalence of Depression
 Amongst Cancer Patients in Hong Kong 
Manulife Charitable Foundation pledged to support
 development of Cancer Patient Counseling Services 
 
A recent study conducted during April to June 2004 by the Faculty 
 of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong suggests that there 
 is a high prevalence of depression among cancer patients in Hong Kong. 
 The study, conducted by the Department of Clinical Oncology of the 
 University, revealed that 21.8% of cancer patients were probable cases 
 of depression and they were often associated with high frequency of 
 depressive symptoms and poor functional status, resulting in poor 
 quality of life (QOL).
This 
 first cross-sectional study on the prevalence of depression in cancer 
 patients in Hong Kong interviewed 298 patients from cancer patient 
 ward, new cancer patient clinic, chemotherapy clinic and radiotherapy 
 clinic. In addition to the high prevalence of depression among cancer 
 patients in general, the study also identified that patients with 
 dependent activities of daily living were particularly associated 
 with high depression. From the socioeconomic perspective, patients 
 who were receiving social security support or were breadwinners of 
 their family were also more probably associated with depression. Other 
 evaluated parameters including age, gender, education, religion and 
 living alone, yet were found to have little influence.
In 
 relation to their Quality of Life (QOL), our study found that functional 
 domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social and global QOL) 
 were strong predictors of depressive symptoms such as fatigue, nausea 
 and vomiting, pain, dyspnea, sleeping disturbance, appetite loss, 
 constipation and diarrhoea. There was strong association between depression 
 and poor physical and emotional status, reluctance to attend social 
 functions etc.
Professor 
 Fok Tai Fai, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong, said, "It is our role to draw attention to the degree 
 of depression among cancer patients. Being aware of the fact that 
 certain portion of patients would experience depressive symptoms that 
 are serious enough to affect their mind, mood, body and behavior, 
 we have to realize the importance of providing treatment for depression 
 to enhance patient's survival and quality of life."
Professor 
 Tony Mok, Chairperson of the Cancer Patient Resource Centre, recognized 
 the serious threat and said, "It is necessary to provide psychological 
 counseling services to the patients in need. The objective of cancer 
 patient counseling service is three-fold: first, to identify patients 
 at risk for diagnosis; second, to provide treatment and diagnosis; 
 third, to supplement psychiatric intervention. We are most pleased 
 to see that the community shares our views when we received support 
 from Manulife Charitable Foundation for the enhancement of Cancer 
 Patient Counseling Service at our Cancer Patient Resource Centre."
Professor 
 Anthony Chan, Chairman of the Department of Clinical Oncology thanked 
 Manulife Charitable Foundation for their generous support. "We are 
 determined to improve the mental health of cancer patients. We will 
 strive to continue our efforts in promoting patient's physical and 
 mental health and the creation of a healthy living environment in 
 hands with every members of the community."
Under-diagnosed 
 or untreated psychiatric disorder amongst cancer patients would add 
 to the patient's sufferings and further compromise their quality of 
 life and affect their ability to participate in cancer treatment. 
 To provide an "Oasis of Calm" for cancer patients, the Department 
 of Clinical Oncology has established the Cancer Patient Resource Centre 
 in January 2003. With the funding of the Hong Kong Cancer Fund, a 
 series of counseling and support programmes were designed for cancer 
 patients and their families in order to soothe the hardship patients 
 faced during their treatment. The Department will continue its role 
 to promote health among cancer patients. 
 

 
 

 
