
[title]CUHK Business Administration Student Awarded 2005 Rhodes Scholarship[/title]

 




[date]30 May 2005[/date]

CUHK 
 Business Administration Student Awarded 2005 Rhodes Scholarship 
 
 
The Chinese University student, Miss Evelyn Chan Hiu Tung, has 
 been chosen as Hong Kong Rhodes Scholar for the year 2005. Evelyn 
 is the sixth CUHK student being awarded this prestigious scholarship 
 in eight years. 
Currently 
 a final-year student majoring in Business Administration and minoring 
 in Sociology at CUHK, Evelyn will graduate with a Bachelor of Business 
 Administration degree in June 2005. She will be leaving for the 
 U.K. to start her Master of Philosophy in Social Anthropology at 
 The University of Oxford in October 2005. 
Evelyn 
 has demonstrated herself as a person of high intellectual ability, 
 with a strong academic record and well-considered ambitions. Apart 
 from the academic work, Evelyn is a young woman of integrity, with 
 a mature and outgoing personality. She enjoys interacting with people 
 and has participated in a range of extra-curricular activities. 
 
During 
 her studies at CUHK, Evelyn has been on exchange for a year to The 
 University of Chicago in the USA, and has actively participated 
 in cultural activities. She teamed up with three other classmates 
 of the Faculty of Business Administration at CUHK to participate 
 in the Copenhagen Business School Case Competition. Among 12 teams 
 from internationally-recognized business schools, the CUHK team 
 took second runners-up and was highly-commended by the adjudicators. 
 Keen in debating, Evelyn not only has been awarded best debater 
 in the local Joint Universities Debating Competition, but was also 
 selected to represent CUHK to compete in the World Universities 
 Debating Championship in Toronto. With the aim to deepen understanding 
 of her home country, Evelyn joined CUHK's China Career Development 
 Award Programme, and took part in a month-long internship in Shanghai, 
 gaining valuable work experience on mainland China. 
The 
 Rhodes Scholarships were established after the death of Sir Cecil 
 Rhodes in 1902, and were originally allocated to students from the 
 Commonwealth countries, the United States and Germany. Since the 
 inclusion of Hong Kong to the list of countries in 1985, one student 
 from Hong Kong has been honoured as Rhodes Scholar each year. The 
 aim of the Scholarships is to reward scholars of good physical vigour, 
 outstanding personality as well as strong intellectual ability. 
 

Miss 
 Evelyn Chan Hiu Tung 
 
 



 
