[title]Hong Kong Should Exploit Trading Opportunities[/title]

[date]3 June 2003[/date]


CUHK EMBA Programme "Talking to CEOs Show"-
 Hong Kong Should Exploit Trading Opportunities
 
Hong Kong should capitalize on China' economic growth and the trading 
 opportunities that abound in the next twenty years, urged Sir Gordon 
 Wu, Chairman of Hopewell Holdings Limited, at the CUHK EMBA "Talking 
 to CEOs" programme held on April 28, 2003. This programme was co-organized 
 by CUHK and RTHK, and co-hosted by Professor Andrew Chan, Director of 
 CUHK's EMBA Programme and Mr. Robert Chow of RTHK.
"Hong Kong people do this 
 best - they are astute and quick at identifying opportunities," said 
 Sir Gordon Wu, Chairman of Hopewell Holdings Limited. "We should take 
 full advantage of our geographical location and decades of accumulated 
 expertise in international trade and services."
Traditionally people in 
 China shop in Shanghai. However, Hong Kong should position itself as 
 a huge duty-free market for trading, tourism, financial and logistics 
 services. With its deep-water port and internationally acclaimed airport, 
 Hong Kong provides the perfect infrastructure for such a development. 
 And the business potential is tremendous.
To facilitate this, urgent 
 action is needed to build two bridges linking Hong Kong with Zhuhai 
 and Macau, creating a triangular service centre. China's Central Government 
 and Macau have already given the green light; agreement from the Guangdong 
 Province and Zhuhai is awaited.
It is little wonder why 
 Sir Gordon is called a visionary.
It was the same vision 
 which prompted Sir Gordon to build the 300 km highway network in the 
 Pearl River Delta in 1978, when China started its economic reforms. 
 He was convinced that the success of China's economic reforms would 
 hinge on adequate communications, power supply and transportation. His 
 proposal met with considerable skepticism at the time, however. Engineers 
 derided the idea, arguing that if the Chinese people could not afford 
 bicycles, what use would they have for highways?
Sir Gordon has been more 
 than vindicated. A recent report by former Premier Zhu Rongji noted 
 that China now has 25,000 km of highway, and more is in the pipeline.
Time is of the essence, 
 he stressed. Hence his criticism of the HK SAR Government's reliance 
 on outside consultants which he regarded as a waste of time and money. 
 Hong Kong should have a "government by consultations", not "government 
 by consultants", he insisted. The $170 billion civil service expenditure 
 should ensure sufficient in-house expertise to meet Government's needs.
While he admires U.S. 
 President Thomas Jefferson for his support of democracy, he opposes 
 direct elections in Hong Kong, which, he believes, will bring a lot 
 of problems. Only 10 per cent of Hong Kong citizens pay taxes, he noted, 
 with the remaining 90 per cent receiving subsidy in various forms: public 
 housing, healthcare and education. Once direct election is introduced, 
 this group will, with the help of the politicians they have voted in, 
 "get not only free lunches, but free dinners and breakfasts". It will 
 be like Hong Kong juggling with two balls only to miss both.
In his view, Hong Kong 
 needs a gradual transition to democracy. The current composition of 
 the Legislative Council membership provides a good balance. Full democracy 
 should be a goal with a 10-20 year time horizon. It is crucial to learn 
 from other countries' strength and steer clear of mistakes committed 
 by others. The result of the different paths taken by China and the 
 former Soviet Union shows clearly which is the right direction to go. 
 Even the U.K., which has a long history of democracy, does not have 
 100 per cent elected politicians today.
Sir Gordon holds profound 
 admiration for two politicians: Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping and Singapore's 
 Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew. Both were strong leaders, but neither 
 was democratically elected.
What does Sir Gordon regard 
 as his greatest achievement?
The Shajiao B Power Station 
 in Guangdong, replied Sir Gordon without hesitation, which was a build-own-transfer 
 (BOT) project completed in just 22 months, and which helped alleviate 
 Guangdong Province's need for electricity. Hopewell Centre was his other 
 pride, because of its unique architectural and engineering design (the 
 "slipform" method which enabled him to erect one high-rise floor every 
 three days) and the access it provides for commuters from Queen's Road 
 East to Kennedy Road.
Has Sir Gordon experienced 
 adversity at all and how did he cope with it?
Certainly, replied Sir 
 Gordon. He quoted two instances: the 1965 run on Hang Seng Bank, which 
 brought land price crashing from $30 to $15; and the 1997 financial 
 crisis which soured his investments in Indonesia and Thailand.
However, these are just 
 the normal ups and downs in business, he stressed. No one should regard 
 himself as the most lucky or unlucky person in the world. In a crisis, 
 "the important thing is not to panic," he advised. "Accept reality, 
 get all necessary information, perform a full analysis of the situation 
 and find a solution."
"There will always be 
 solutions," he added. "In fact, solutions often outnumber problems."
On management, Sir Gordon 
 believes that everyone has talent of some kind. It's only a matter of 
 discovering it and putting it to good use. Teamwork requires a variety 
 of talents, and he tries to give everyone a chance to prove himself.
Notwithstanding the worldwide 
 recognition, Sir Gordon does not think he is particularly bright, or 
 that he has the answer to everything. He could never perform ballet, 
 for example.
What sets him apart is 
 diligence, he said. He strongly believes that a wise decision is possible 
 only when all the facts are to hand, and he spares no effort in collecting 
 all available data.
He commended the Hong 
 Kong SAR Government for dealing with the SARS epidemic. "This is a brand 
 new virus and we should not be over-critical about what Government should 
 or should not have done," he said. "In my opinion, the Government as 
 well as the two universities have coped pretty well."
And he has no intention 
 of hanging on to the business once he retires. "Life is like a show. 
 No one should have monopoly of the stage."
What are his retirement 
 plans? Is politics an option?
NO, responded Sir Gordon 
 emphatically. He will spend time studying history. Why? Because what's 
 happening, and what will happen, is but history replayed, over and over 
 again.
His parting words of wisdom 
 to the packed audience of students and alumni of the EMBA and MBA Programmes 
 were: study "The Story of the Three Kingdoms" and listen to classical 
 music: the former is a valuable guide for business strategy and the 
 latter will bring the tranquility of mind for clear vision.
Sir Gordon Wu is the Chairman 
 of Hopewell Holdings Limited. The company was formed in l964 and listed 
 on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 1972.
Hopewell is engaged in 
 the development of properties, hotels, power stations and superhighways, 
 with operations in Hong Kong, China, Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand.
Sir Gordon has been involved 
 in the design and construction of many building projects. Best known 
 is his "slipform" method of construction, which enables one high-rise 
 floor to be erected every three days. His 2x350MW coal-fired Shajiao 
 B Power Station in Guangdong set a world record of sending the first 
 electricity in month 22 after ground-breaking - a feat that earned the 
 company the British Construction Award of 1988.
Sir Gordon is active in 
 civil and community services, and has received many awards and honours, 
 including the "Chevalier De L'Ordre De La Corona" from the King of Belgium 
 in 1985; "Business Man of the Year" from the South China Morning Post 
 and DHL in 1991; one of the "Best Entrepreneurs" from BusinessWeek in 
 1994; and "International CEO of the Year" from George Washington University 
 (USA) in 1996. He was knighted by the Queen of England in 1997.
The EMBA "Talking to CEOs" 
 programme featuring Sir Gordon was publicly broadcast on May 11, 2003 
 at RTHK Radio 1 and simultaneously posted on the RTHK website (http://www.rthk.org.hk). 
 It will also be aired by Cable TV News Channel One on Monday, June 9, 
 2003. Information and photos of previous shows can be viewed at http://ihome.cuhk.edu.hk/~b845744/. 
 
 

 
