[title]Staying Ahead of the Pack: HSBC CEO Shares Recipe for Success at CUHK EMBA "Talking to CEOs" Show[/title]

[date]2 May 2003[/date]


Staying Ahead of the Pack: 
 HSBC CEO Shares Recipe for Success at CUHK EMBA "Talking to CEOs" 
 Show
 
A great brand name, an established customer base, good and loyal staff, 
 tight control over operating costs and constant adjustment of business 
 strategy to cater to customers' needs underpin HSBC's success in maintaining 
 its leadership position in Hong Kong's highly competitive banking industry. 
 
This was the snapshot 
 given to The Chinese University's EMBA and MBA students and alumni by 
 Raymond Or, General Manager of HSBC Limited. He was speaking at the 
 CUHK-RTHK "Talking to CEOs" programme on April 2, 2003. Co-hosts of 
 the show were Professor Andrew Chan, Director of CUHK's EMBA Programme 
 and Mr. Robert Chow Yung of RTHK. 
HSBC has gone through 
 quite an evolution in its 138 years of history: from the humble Shanghai 
 roots to being Hong Kong's "quasi-central bank" to its current stature 
 as "The World's Local Bank", a financial services institution with 8,000 
 offices in 80 economies. 
HSBC is obsessed with 
 customer value, stressed Mr. Or, and HSBC strives to be an "all-weather 
 umbrella" to its customers.
 "It is absolutely crucial 
 to adopt different strategies for different times", reiterated Mr. Or. 
 Like all banks in Hong Kong, HSBC has had to face challenges such as 
 the Asian financial crisis and the prevailing recession. HSBC had to 
 diversify in order to balance revenue and expenditure, minimize risk 
 and stay profitable. 
Equally important is the 
 ability to anticipate change and position yourself accordingly. A good 
 example is the decision by then Chairman Sandberg, to go global. This 
 strategy was partly inspired by the high cost of operating in Hong Kong, 
 and the realization that opportunity for further expansion was limited. 
 This foresight has certainly paid handsome dividends. 
A rather visible change, 
 Professor Chan noted, was in the attire and persona of HSBC executives. 
 The dark suit-white shirt-serious countenance that was so characteristic 
 of the typical HSBC executive seemed to have given way, about ten years 
 ago, to more casual attire and far more relaxed and vibrant attitude. 
 
Mr. Or admitted that this 
 was the result of a consistent effort at training staff to adapt to 
 the new business environment and customer expectations. It was not easy, 
 he agreed. Mental attitude is often difficult to change. Communication 
 is crucial, however. Staff need to be clear about the corporate vision 
 and directions and have to buy in to them. Only then can they develop 
 the necessary commitment and enthusiasm for their work. Those who cannot 
 change would eventually have to leave, though not without a good package.
How does HSBC nurture 
 and keep its staff without having to pay through the roof? Job satisfaction 
 through providing a structured organization with sufficient procedures 
 to get the work done but also a lot of room for employee empowerment. 
 HSBC attaches a lot of importance to cultivating a "family" atmosphere, 
 and encourages team spirit. Office politics is outlawed and the Bank 
 is not particularly keen to develop high flyers.
 "HSBC's success is hinged 
 on the absence of office politics," declared Mr. Or. "Our culture is 
 about team work, and mutual support. That is the only way to serve our 
 Bank and our customers." 
What are the qualities 
 of a leader and what does it take to get ahead in an organization like 
 HSBC? 
In Mr. Or's view, a leader 
 should be well-balanced on all sides. His heroes are Chinese leader 
 Mr. Chou En-lai, former HSBC Chairman William Purves and current Chairman 
 John Bond. His own philosophy is to do his best without being obsessed 
 with perceived returns. "Don't be afraid to do more than your share," 
 he urged. "An opportunity for extra work is an opportunity to show performance."
 Networking is important, 
 he advised. Not only for business development purpose, but also to learn. 
 One can stumble upon crucial intelligence about an industry or specific 
 companies this way. He has previously uncovered a scam after being alerted 
 by a client. 
Continuous learning is 
 just as important. He has benefited tremendously from learning in real 
 life, from people around him. 
He acknowledged that the 
 next few years would be tough for small and medium banks in Hong Kong, 
 as profit margins in the traditional loans and mortgage business diminish 
 and they need to look for alternative sources of revenue. 
However, as always, risks 
 are accompanied by opportunities. The current recession, for example, 
 presents retail business with unprecedented opportunities to secure 
 prime store locations at very competitive rentals. 
There is no need to be 
 over-pessimistic about job prospects, he told his student audience. 
 In the case of HSBC, while 700 jobs have been cut, it is still hiring 
 for other jobs, some of which are substantial positions. The key is 
 to be well-prepared, and demonstrate your competitive edge. The qualities 
 that HSBC looks for, in order of priority, are: people skill, communication 
 skills and academic qualifications. Leadership skill would be a plus, 
 but it can be developed. 
His parting words of wisdom 
 on management were: strive to be someone accepted and respected by both 
 colleagues and clients; be generous with small mistakes; build a team 
 spirit and always keep a smiling face. 
Mr. Raymond Or Ching Fai, 
 a Chinese native, began his career with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
 Corporation Limited in 1972 after graduating from the University of 
 Hong Kong with a bachelor's degree in Economics and Psychology. 
Mr. Or was appointed Assistant 
 General Manager and Head of Corporate and Institutional Banking in 1995 
 and then General Manager on 1st February, 2000. 
Mr. Or is a director of 
 Hang Seng Bank Limited and Chairman of HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) 
 Holdings Limited. He is also a director of Hong Kong Interbank Clearing 
 Limited, Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, Esprit Holdings Limited, Hutchison 
 Whampoa Limited and iBusinessCorporation.com Limited. 
He serves on a large number 
 of professional and community organizations. He is Chairman of the Hong 
 Kong Association of Banks for 2003, council member of the Hong Kong 
 Trade Development Council, and member of the Board of Directors of the 
 Community Chest of Hong Kong. 
 

 
