[title]CUHK Launches the "Cancer Information Hotline" and Establishes a New Information Platform for Cancer[/title]

[date]12 October 2004[/date]


 CUHK Launches the "Cancer Information Hotline" and 
 Establishes a New Information Platform for Cancer 
 
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 today announced the establishment of a "Cancer Information Hotline". 
 The public can now simply dial the hotline number 2637 1122 for an 
 easy access to the information platform in order to obtain the most 
 updated and comprehensive evidence-based information about cancer 
 and its development in Hong Kong.
Being 
 the first of its kind in Hong Kong, the "Cancer Information Hotline" 
 provides updated cancer information to the public in simple language. 
 As in-depth or up-to-date scientific information can only be found 
 in medical libraries or from websites of professional organizations, 
 and the articles are written mainly in English and most likely available 
 in professional language, the common public have great difficulty 
 understanding the information thoroughly. The Department of Clinical 
 Oncology, therefore, observes the need to set up the Hotline in Cantonese 
 to provide accurate and detailed information about cancer to the public.
Prof 
 Anthony Chan, Chairman of the Department of Clinical Oncology of CUHK 
 officiated the Hotline launching ceremony and said, "The Faculty of 
 Medicine is keen to provide all kinds of supportive services for cancer 
 patients. As one of the core services of the Cancer Patient Resource 
 Center, this "Cancer Information Hotline" is established with a determination 
 to enrich the public's knowledge about cancer, eventually reducing 
 the public's unnecessary fear towards the disease."
Dr. 
 Fung Hong, Cluster Chief Executive (New Territories East) of the Hospital 
 Authority said, "We are pleased to witness the establishment of this 
 Hotline services. Hong Kong is in urgent need of dedicated information 
 provisioning facilities. In view of the ever-changing and complicated 
 details about cancer, it is difficult for patients to acquire and 
 to digest these information. Worse of all, it will induce necessary 
 fears and thus adversely affect the patients' recovery. This Cancer 
 Information Hotline will sure be an effective way to correct the public's 
 misunderstanding towards cancer."
Professor 
 Tony Mok, Associate Professor of the Department of Clinical Oncology 
 explained, "Cancer is among the most serious health problems which 
 lead to morbidity and fatality in Hong Kong. Despite the fact, the 
 availability of cancer information is far from sufficient to satisfy 
 the needs of cancer patients and their family who demand to know more 
 about the illness and treatment. Busy medical staffs may try to provide 
 the essential information, but frequently, the patient and family 
 need more support and information resource for decision and plan. 
 Through this Hotline, we will share information with the public in 
 three aspects: 1. Cancer Information (such as Lung Cancer, Breast 
 Cancer and Colon Cancer); 2. Cancer Services Information, and, 3. 
 Cancer Related Drug Information. It is hoped that this Hotline would 
 help people to know more about cancer."
Apart 
 from Prof Tony Mok, we are most honored to invite Mr James Wong and 
 Ms Liza Wang to participate in the Hotline's voice-recording. Mr James 
 Wong said, "It is meaningful to take part in the Hotline. I am delighted 
 to make contributions for the welfare of cancer patients and I hope 
 all cancer patients would benefit from the establishment of this Hotline 
 service. I believe that empowerment of patients and families with 
 information will enable them to actively take part in the planning 
 and decision making of their illnesses."
With 
 the professional assistance from Professors of the Clinical Oncology 
 Department, Dr C K Law of the Queen Elizabeth's Hospital, Dr Rebecca 
 Yeung of the Eastern Nethersole Hospital and doctors of the Prince 
 of Wales Hospital, we are devoted to deliver the most accurate information 
 and we believe this kind of information will be very important and 
 valuable to cancer patients and their families in understanding the 
 new development of cancer. 

From 
 left to right:
 Professor Tony Mok, Associate Professor, Department of Clinical Oncology, 
 CUHK 
 Dr Fung Hong, Cluster Chief Executive (New Territories East) of the 
 Hospital Authority
 Professor Anthony Chan, Chairman, Department of Clinical Oncology, 
 CUHK 
 
 
 

 
