[title]Proper Monitoring Brings Improved Care to Childhood Asthma[/title]

[date]13 January 2004[/date]


 Proper Monitoring Brings Improved Care to Childhood Asthma
 
Asthma is the most common chronic lung disease in children. Among 
 the Chinese population, schoolchildren from Hong Kong have the highest 
 prevalence of asthma. Large-scale studies by the Department of Paediatrics, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong suggest proper monitoring is crucial 
 to proper care of asthma.
With 
 the support from the Research Grant Council of Hong Kong, the Department 
 of Paediatrics has conducted two large epidemiological surveys on childhood 
 asthma. Eight years ago, the Department of Paediatrics joined an international 
 asthma survey (ISAAC) and found that about 10% of local secondary schoolchildren 
 had asthma. Using the same methodology, the Department studied 3,321 
 subjects in 2002 to assess the prevalence of asthma and the level of 
 asthma control in affected children. We did not find any increase in 
 asthma prevalence over this 8-year period. However, the control is markedly 
 improved when compared to eight years ago. In 1995, 23% of asthmatic 
 children had developed severe attacks within 12 months and 10% of them 
 had wheezing attack 3 per month. In 2002, only 16% had severe attacks 
 within 12 months while only 5.6% had attacks 3 per month.
"The 
 improvement is most likely due to the parental acceptance of the diagnosis 
 and increased use of preventive medication for asthma," explained the 
 investigator Professor Gary Wong Wing Kin of the Department of Paediatrics.
In 2003, 
 another survey was conducted on children aged 2-6 years in order to 
 get a better picture of asthma in young children. It was found that 
 8.1% had wheezing attack in the past year and 4.4% had attack affecting 
 their sleep. A total of 16% had used anti-asthma medications but only 
 4.3% were told to have asthma. Although many young children have symptoms 
 of asthma, not many were given the diagnosis because of the reluctance 
 in accepting on the diagnosis. More education is needed for the general 
 public with regards to the health knowledge related to asthma.
Monitoring 
 of asthma also has improved. Asthma is an inflammatory airway disease. 
 Professor Leung Ting Fan of the Department of Paediatrics said that 
 in the past, it is very difficult to assess the degree of airway inflammation 
 directly. Medical research has found that inflammation of the airways 
 will increase the level of nitric oxide in the exhaled breath of the 
 patients. The Department of Paediatrics has measured the exhaled nitric 
 oxide level of 325 school children. It is a very simple and safe method, 
 and children just have to blow into the machine with instantaneous read 
 out. Among the asthmatic Chinese children, the level of nitric oxide 
 is about 80 parts per billion (ppb) while for normal children it is 
 only 29ppb. This simple method may guide doctors to adjust the medication. 
 
Professor 
 Fok Tai Fai, Chairman of the Department of Paediatrics, concluded, "With 
 improvement in the diagnosis, monitoring and control, the majority of 
 asthmatic children will enjoy a physically active normal life."
 

 
