[title]The Bank of East Asia supports CUHK's SARS Rehabilitation Programmes[/title]

[date]14 July 2003[/date]


The Bank of East Asia supports
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong's SARS Rehabilitation Programmes 
 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - World Health Organization 
 (WHO) Collaborating Centre for Sports Medicine and Health Promotion 
 received a generous donation of HK$500,000 from The Bank of East Asia 
 (BEA) to establish a rehabilitation programme for SARS patients. A cheque 
 presentation ceremony was held on 11 July at BEA's Head Office.
Dr. The Hon. David K.P. 
 Li, GBS, JP, Chairman and Chief Executive of the Bank, said: "We are 
 extremely honoured to be able to support The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong in this important venture. As a committed corporate citizen, BEA 
 has sought out ways that it could provide meaningful assistance to the 
 victims of SARS. This programme will give new hope to those whose health 
 has been affected by this disease. May I express my heartfelt best wishes 
 to all former SARS patients, and the hope that this rehabilitation programme 
 will help speed their recovery."
Professor Kai-ming Chan, 
 Director of the CUHK - WHO Collaborating Centre for Sports Medicine 
 and Health Promotion said: "The contribution from the Bank of East Asia 
 is indeed a great encouragement to The University. The programme will 
 run for twelve to eighteen months, and will include a pre-entry examination, 
 an exercise regime and a periodic assessment of progress. We shall document 
 possible complications, monitor the long-term outcome, and develop a 
 protocol for use by all SARS patients. We hope that through this series 
 of rehabilitation programmes, SARS patients can regain full functional 
 capability."
The donation will enable 
 CUHK to devise a comprehensive rehabilitation programme to enable the 
 full recovery of SARS patients.
 About The Bank of East 
 Asia
 Established in 1918, BEA 
 is the largest independent local bank in Hong Kong with total assets 
 of HK$185 billion (US$23.7 billion) as of 31 December 2002. Over the 
 years, BEA has gained an international reputation as a professionally 
 managed and prudent financial institution that understands customer 
 needs.
 BEA now operates a total 
 of 103 branches in Hong Kong, 19 outlets in Greater China and maintains 
 a strong presence in the U.S.A., Canada, the UK, the British Virgin 
 Islands and Southeast Asia. For detailed information, please visit BEA's 
 website at www.hkbea.com.
 About CUHK-WHO Collaborating 
 Centre for Sports Medicine and Health Promotion
 Established in 1996, CUHK-WHO 
 Collaborating Centre for Sports Medicine and Health Promotion has developed 
 a high reputation for its work in sports medicine and health promotion. 
 
 
BEA's Chairman 
 and Chief Executive Dr. David Li (right) presented a cheque of HK$500,000 
 to the CUHK, represented by Professor Kai-ming Chan. 

 
