[title]Business Leaders to take CUHK's MBA Students Under Their Wings[/title]

[date]18 October 2003[/date]


 Business Leaders to take CUHK's MBA Students Under Their Wings 
 
 
The new class of full-time MBA students at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong will be learning their ropes, first hand, from some of 
 the movers and shakers of the business community under a well-designed 
 new Elitist Mentorship Programme which debuted on October 18, 2003.
32 business 
 leaders have committed to be mentors, and the list reads like a mini 
 Who's Who of Hong Kong's blue chip companies - Chairman, CEOs, Managing 
 Directors of multinational and home-grown companies as well as a Permanent 
 Secretary of the Hong Kong SAR Government. What is unique about this 
 programme is not just the impressive credentials of the mentors themselves, 
 but the fact that they are all top-notch alumni of the MBA and EMBA 
 programmes of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The earliest graduate 
 of the list graduated in 1971, and the latest graduated in 2001, spanning 
 three decades.
"The 
 superior quality of management professionals in Hong Kong has been instrumental 
 in maintaining the territory's status as an international financial 
 and commercial hub over many decades," said Mr. Michael Wong, Executive 
 Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited, who is one of the mentors. 
 "A Mentorship Programme that forms part of MBA studies at The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong gives students the opportunity to benefit from 
 former graduates' real-life experience. By having mentors share their 
 guidance and insight into the world of commerce, the programme makes 
 a valuable contribution to the education of Hong Kong's future business 
 leaders,"
"I am 
 really excited about this programme," said Armstrong Lee, Managing Director 
 of Worldwide Human Capital Consulting Limited and principal architect 
 of this Mentorship Programme. "We have so many outstanding CUMBA alumni 
 in the top echelons of management in the public and private sectors. 
 It's high time to get these Star Alumni to lend a hand to our MBA students 
 in their academic, career as well as personal development," said the 
 Chairman of the Mentorship Programme Committee.
"The 
 Mentorship Programme is a crucial complement to classroom teaching as 
 it brings a real-life dimension to the MBA Programme. We are committed 
 to helping CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration nurture future 
 business leaders and this Mentorship Programme provides them a great 
 opportunity to be coached by current leaders."
"I am 
 particularly touched to see the large number of Star Alumni who are 
 willing to add this responsibility to their already crowded schedules," 
 he added. "It is our contribution to our alma mater and a great way 
 to strengthen the bond of the CUMBA family."
At Saturday's 
 Kick-Off Gathering, Mr. Joseph Pang, Executive Director and Deputy Chief 
 Executive of Bank of East Asia described the mentor-mentee relationship 
 as a "win-win experience".
"The 
 mentor-mentee relationship is the transition from the classroom to the 
 boardroom. This unique relationship enables mentees to gain invaluable 
 insight into specific jobs, career paths, corporate cultures, and much 
 more. It is a special chance for business students to receive individual 
 attention from a seasoned professional, and to begin to apply what has 
 been learned at school to the professional workplace," he said.
"I have 
 had numerous privileges to serve as a mentor to business students. My 
 mentees and I learned a great deal from each other and I greatly value 
 the time we spent together."
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong's full-time MBA Programmes were launched 
 in 1966, the first of its kind in Hong Kong. This was followed by part-time 
 MBA in 1977 and Executive MBA Programme in 1993. Both the MBA and Executive 
 MBA Programmes have, over the years, received consistently top rankings 
 in Asia. The MBA Programmes were ranked Number 1 in Asia Pacific in 
 2002 by Asia Inc and again in 2003. The Executive MBA Programmes were 
 ranked Number 1 in Asia by both BusinessWeek and Financial 
 Times in 2001, and again by Financial Times in 2002. 
Photo 
 1: (from left to right) 
 Mr. Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Human Capital Consulting 
 Ltd and Chairperson of the Elitist Mentorship Programme Committee
 Prof. T.S. Lee, Dean, Faculty of Business Administration
 Mr. Joseph Pang, Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive, Bank of 
 East Asia

Photo 
 2: (from left to right) 
 Mr. Ng Tat Lun, Managing Director, Energizer Co. Inc. 
 Mr. Adolf Ho, Managing Director of Campbell Soup Asia Ltd. 
 Mr. Lawrence Lee, CEO of Aon Holdings HK Ltd. 
 Prof. T.S. Lee, Dean of BA Faculty 
 Mr. Joseph Pang, Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive, Bank of 
 East Asia 
 Mr. Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Human Capital Consulting 
 Ltd and Chairperson of Elitist Mentorship Programme Committee 
  



 
