[title]Personality Features of Pathological Gamblers in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]14 July 2003[/date]


Personality Features of Pathological Gamblers in Hong Kong 
 
A study conducted by the Department of Psychology, The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong on Personality Features of Pathological Gamblers in Hong 
 Kong, one of the first psychological studies on pathological gamblers 
 in Hong Kong, points to the importance of understanding the psychological 
 features and deficits of pathological gamblers. It reveals that pathological 
 gambling is associated with poor impulse control and emotional disturbance. 
 Rehabilitation programs should address these psychological needs. The 
 study also highlighted the importance of using locally valid measures 
 and local norms.
According to Diagnostic 
 and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th Edition), Pathological 
 Gambling is 'recurrent and persistent maladaptive gambling behavior 
 that disrupts personal, family and vocational aspects'.
In this study, the South 
 Oaks Gambling Screen (SOGS) was used as the screening instrument on 
 gambling and the Chinese Personality Assessment Inventory (CPAI-2) to 
 understand the personality features of pathological gamblers.
The study examined 91 
 male pathological gamblers recruited from the treatment center of Industrial 
 Evangelistic Fellowship (IEF). The mean age of the group was 40 years 
 and the average gambling history was 22 years.
Most of the 91 male gamblers 
 who participated in this study started gambling during adolescence (Mean 
 age = 17.42, SD = 6.83). In addition to monetary returns, most gamblers 
 agreed that seeking excitement, alleviating mood disturbances and avoiding 
 life stressors are also reasons for their involvement in gambling activities. 
 This is consistent with western studies that emotional vulnerability 
 factors contributed to the development of pathological gambling. As 
 measured by the Chinese Personality Assessment Inventory (CPAI-2), the 
 Chinese male pathological gamblers showed a pattern of addictive behavior 
 reflecting a lack of impulse control and an inclination towards thrill-seeking 
 behaviors, compared with average Chinese men. In addition, 51.6% of 
 the pathological gamblers suffered from depressive symptoms that affected 
 their daily functioning.
Analysis of the subgroups 
 of the pathological gamblers showed that 36.6% of the group who had 
 more severe gambling problems presented psychopathologies that warranted 
 clinical attention. In clinical scales, they suffered from poor self-esteem, 
 and had more emotional and behavioral problems. In terms of personality 
 features, they tended to be less responsible and more pessimistic, attributed 
 control to external factors, and had weaker family orientation.
It should be cautioned 
 that this study is limited to a group of male pathological gamblers 
 who have participated voluntarily in a treatment program. Further research 
 is necessary before the results can be generalized to other pathological 
 gamblers in Hong Kong, including those in other treatment settings and 
 those who are not motivated to receive treatment.
The study was conducted 
 by Professor Fanny M. Cheung, Professor of Psychology of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong and Ms Gloria W.Y. Wan, a MSSc student in clinical 
 psychology at the Department of Psychology, The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong. 

 
