
[title]CUHK Fourth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]

 




[date]20 May 2005[/date]

Deficient 
 Calcium Intake May Increase the Risk of Hypertension In the Elderly 
 
 
Hypertension (defined as blood pressure over 140/90 mmHg) affects 
 about 55% of the elderly subjects in Hong Kong. In westernised societies, 
 a high salt intake combined with low potassium and calcium intakes 
 and other factors may be responsible for the prevalence of hypertension 
 and related complications in the elderly. 
Calcium 
 intake is much lower in Asian communities, especially among the 
 elderly. The average daily calcium intake in elderly subjects in 
 Hong Kong is about 300 mg, which is much lower than the recommended 
 intake of 1,000 mg. An adequate calcium intake is important for 
 maintaining bone health and protection against hypertension. Subjects 
 with a higher calcium intake tend to have a lower blood pressure 
 and reduced risk of hypertension. Age-related increases in blood 
 pressure are attenuated by higher calcium intake. Calcium may help 
 decrease blood pressure by increasing sodium excretion by the kidney 
 and the relaxation of blood vessels. 
The 
 Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong has conducted 
 two studies to determine the prevalence of hypertension in older 
 subjects in Hong Kong in relation to their calcium intake. Among 
 110 vegetarians aged over 55, 71 (65%) were found to have hypertension. 
 Hypertensive subjects had lower calcium intake, but higher salt 
 intake and lower potassium intake. Both the systolic blood pressure 
 and prevalence of hypertension were the highest among subjects with 
 the lowest calcium intake but the highest salt intake and the lowest 
 potassium intake. Among 234 free-living subjects aged over 55, 124 
 (53%) were found to have hypertension. A similar trend for the protective 
 effect of dietary calcium intake against hypertension was seen. 
 
An 
 adequate calcium intake together with a high potassium intake and 
 reduced salt intake should help protect the elderly against hypertension. 
 They should understand the importance of calcium in disease prevention 
 and its main dietary sources. 
 
 



 
