[title]New Local Studies Prove Health Benefit of Soy Foods[/title]

[date]16 October 2003[/date]


 New Local Studies Prove Health Benefit of Soy Foods 
 
Although soy is a traditional food among Chinese with a history over 
 5000 years, data on its possible relation with health outcomes in the 
 Asian population are still limited. Numerous scientific and medical 
 studies in recent years reveal the many beneficial health effects of 
 soybeans. These include improved lipid profiles, heart health, improvement 
 or protection of hormonal dependent diseases/conditions such as menopausal 
 symptoms, breast cancer, prostate cancer and possibly osteoporosis and 
 improved cognitive functions. Comparisons between Asian and Western 
 populations indicate that Asian populations with higher soy intake also 
 have lower incidences of many of these diseases/conditions.
The 
 benefit of soy foods may be attributed to its components called phytoestrogens 
 or isoflavones, of which soy is the most important dietary contributor. 
 The School of Public Health and the Food and Nutritional Sciences Programme 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong have initiated a series of studies 
 looking into the health effects of soy and the intake profile in the 
 population. Mean soy protein intake in the Hong Kong Chinese population 
 is around 6-8 grams per day, with a range from about a mean intake of 
 2 grams per day in the low quartile intake group, to 18 gram per day 
 in the high quartile intake group.
One 
 of the study topics is osteoporosis, an increasing public health problem 
 in Hong Kong and Asia. Building up peak bone mass in childhood and adolescence 
 and maintenance of bone mass in adulthood prevents fractures from osteoporosis 
 in later life. Recent studies in 454 early postmenopausal Chinese women 
 with a mean age of 55 years have observed that habitual high intake 
 of soy foods is associated with higher bone mass in women beyond the 
 first four years postmenopausal. Those in the highest soy intake quartile 
 had 4-8% higher hip and total body bone mass compared to those in the 
 lowest intake quartile.
Another 
 newly completed one-year intervention study has assessed the effects 
 of calcium-fortified soymilk (375 ml/) on bone mass in local adolescent 
 girls aged 14-16 years. About 100 girls received supplementation for 
 one year, and another 100 girls as the control. The two groups had similar 
 characteristics and bone mass at the beginning of the study. Girls receiving 
 supplementation daily for one year had significantly higher percentage 
 increase in hip bone mass compared with the control group. The mean 
 percentage increase of bone mass at various sites of the hip ranged 
 from 2.7% to 3.8% among the supplementation group, while that for the 
 control group is 1.6% to 2.6%. The difference between the supplementation 
 and control group ranged from 45% to 113%. The data indicate that calcium 
 fortified soymilk intake could be an effective way of building up healthy 
 bone in adolescent girls.
In Hong 
 Kong this week, is Dr. Mark Messina, US nutritionist specializing in 
 soy and health relationships. Today he will announce, prior to his appearance 
 at a seminar on Saturday, new findings on the health benefits of soy 
 with respect to its nutritional value and effects of its biologically 
 active isoflavones on coronary heart disease, breast cancer, osteoporosis, 
 menopausal symptoms, cognitive function and prostate cancer. All of 
 these conditions are common in Hong Kong. 



 
