[title]Major Ranking Leap for CUHK's EMBA Worldwide No. 1 Independent EMBA in Asia-Pacific Again[/title]

[date]1 November 2004[/date]


 Major Ranking Leap for CUHK's EMBA Worldwide
 No. 1 Independent EMBA in Asia-Pacific Again 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Executive MBA Programme has 
 announced today that it has received the highest ever ranking for 
 the Programme from the Financial Times, since the prestigious 
 Business Newspaper conducted its first EMBA ranking in 2001.
In 
 its latest global survey of over 80 EMBA Programmes worldwide, the 
 London-based Financial Times ranked CUHK's EMBA Programme No. 
 12 in 2004, compared to No. 20 in 2002 and 2003. The latest result 
 shows a great ranking leap of the Programme.
"We 
 are very pleased to note this result, as it is the highest ever accolade 
 that has been conferred on our Programme by FT since it started its 
 EMBA ranking exercise," Professor Andrew Chi-Fai Chan, Director of 
 the EMBA Programme, said.
"Ours 
 is the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong 
 Kong product. The Programme's success is, therefore, Hong Kong's success," 
 he added. "In addition, we owe the result to the support of our University 
 management and the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, 
 staff, students and alumni."
Of 
 note, CUHK's EMBA Programme has been ranked No. 1 EMBA Independent 
 Programme in Asia-Pacific in 2003 and 2004 for the last two consecutive 
 years, and also has been selected as No. 1 EMBA Independent Programme 
 in Asia from 2001-04 for four consecutive years.
In 
 terms of percentage of women students, the Programme was also assessed 
 the best worldwide, and was among the Top 10 Schools around the globe 
 in terms of percentage of international faculty and alumni's salaries 
 in consulting. Besides, it also scored high in such areas as salary 
 increase, aims achieved rank, women faculty, women advisory board 
 and international advisory board.
According 
 to a Financial Times' analysis, CUHK's EMBA Programme received 
 high scores partly because it had a large number of international 
 managers from the banking and industrial sectors.
CUHK's 
 EMBA Programme is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, 
 but also one of two business schools in the top 12 where the medium 
 of teaching is bilingual (the other is Instituto de Empress in Spain).
"Ranking 
 is not our foremost pursuit," Professor Chan said, "What is important 
 is maintaining our ability to nurture world-class management talents 
 to meet the needs of Hong Kong, China and the region."
"We 
 will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between 
 theory and application, and continue to innovate to make sure that 
 we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since 
 2002, enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities 
 for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders. As 
 such we have organized with RTHK, ATV and Cable TV the popular "Talking 
 to CEOs: CEO in the New Century" series, and the "New Thinking in 
 Management" live programme currently aired every Sunday afternoon 
 on RTHK's Radio 1," he added.
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong's EMBA Programme was ranked no. 1 
 in Asia by both Financial Times and BusinessWeek in 
 2001, and again by Financial Times in 2002-2004. Its MBA Programmes 
 also received top ranking by Asia Inc. in 2002-2004. 



 
