[title]A potentially effective treatment in preventing Obstructive Sleep Apnoea related cardiovascular complications[/title]

[date]25 January 2005[/date]


 A potentially effective treatment in preventing 
 Obstructive Sleep Apnoea related cardiovascular complications 
 
Recent research conducted at The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 has found that obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) may lead to platelet 
 activation, a mechanism closely associated with ischaemic stroke. 
 Hence it is important to treat OSA patients early to prevent cardiovascular 
 complications such as stroke. 
OSA 
 is characterized by repetitive episodes of upper airway obstruction 
 during sleep resulting in lack of oxygen, sleep fragmentation, and 
 frequent arousals. The major consequences of OSA include excessive 
 daytime sleepiness, cognitive function deficits, impaired psychosocial 
 well-being, reduced driving competence, and high blood pressure. It 
 is common among middle-aged Chinese in Hong Kong with a minimum prevalence 
 of 4%. 
A 
 case-controlled study conducted in The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong has previously shown a high prevalence of OSA in patients following 
 acute ischaemic stroke (49% vs 24% in a control group). This alarming 
 finding matches with other similar studies. Cross-sectional associations 
 from the baseline examination of the US Sleep Heart Health Study cohort 
 have shown that OSA was more strongly associated with reported stroke 
 and heart failure than with coronary artery disease. A Japanese study 
 has shown that the severity of OSA is independently related to the 
 carotid artery wall thickness. Two recent studies in Europe have shown 
 that patients with OSA and stroke have much lower survival rates compared 
 to those with stroke alone. 
Researchers 
 at CUHK have further examined the mechanisms of stroke and found that 
 they are likely related to repetitive surges of sympathetic nerve 
 activity during OSA-related arousals. A case-controlled study led 
 by Professor David SC Hui, Head of Division of Respiratory Medicine, 
 and Professor Gregory Cheng, Head of Division of Haematology of the 
 Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK has shown that OSA, 
 through repeated episodes of arousals, may lead to platelet activation. 
 Platelet activation is an important step in the pathogenesis of ischaemic 
 stroke. The study has also found that platelet activation can be reduced 
 by nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment. Although 
 the major indication of CPAP treatment is to relieve symptoms such 
 as disabling daytime sleepiness, the reduction in platelet activation 
 should be regarded as a bonus benefit especially with the growing 
 evidence of cardiovascular consequences related to OSA. It is important 
 to treat symptomatic patients with OSA early, with the potential advantage 
 of preventing cardiovascular complications such as stroke. 



 
