[title]Inventor of Laser Charles Townes Lectures at the Chinese University[/title]

[date]18 August 2005[/date]


Inventor 
 of Laser Charles Townes Lectures at the Chinese University
 
Laser is one of the most important inventions in science history. 
 The use of laser has become indispensable in our daily lives. CD 
 players, laser printers and speeding guns used by the police are 
 all related to laser. Professor Charles Hard Townes, well-known 
 as the inventor of laser, delivered a lecture titled "The Laser" 
 at The Chinese University of Hong Kong today. Professor Townes is 
 the 1964 Nobel Laureate in Physics. At the age of ninety, he is 
 still very active at the frontier of physics. In the lecture, he 
 shared his accomplishments in scientific research with 300 students 
 and staff. 
Professor 
 Townes was born in South Carolina, USA in 1915. He graduated summa 
 cum laude from Furman University in 1935 with a BS in physics and 
 a BA in modern languages, then received his MA in physics from Duke 
 University in 1936 and his PhD in 1939 from the California Institute 
 of Technology. He worked in Bell Laboratories and served as full 
 professor of Columbia University. 
In 
 1951, Professor Townes began his research on problems that eventually 
 led to the laser. His group began working on a device using ammonia 
 gas as the active medium for optics. This led to the first amplification 
 and generation of electromagnetic waves by stimulated emission in 
 early 1954. They called this device a maser (Microwave Amplification 
 by Stimulated Emission of Radiation). In 1958, Professor Townes 
 and Dr. A. L. Schawlow showed theoretically that masers could be 
 made to operate in the optical and infrared region and this work 
 resulted in their joint paper on optical and infrared masers, or 
 lasers (Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation). 
 
In 
 1961, Professor Townes was appointed provost and professor of physics 
 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he later became 
 Institute Professor. In 1964, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics 
 with Nicolay Gennadiyevich Basov and Aleksandr Mikhailovich Prokhorov 
 "for fundamental work in quantum electronics which has led to the 
 construction of oscillators and amplifiers based on the maser-laser 
 principle." Besides, Professor Townes has received many honours, 
 awards, and numerous honorary degrees from universities over the 
 world. 
In 
 1966, he resigned from the position of provost at MIT to  to more intensive research, particularly in the fields of quantum 
 electronics and astronomy. He was appointed University Professor 
 at the University of California in 1967. 
Professor 
 Townes continues to do research at the University of California, 
 Berkeley, where his current work involves very high angular resolution 
 astronomy in the mid-infrared through the use of interferometric 
 techniques. He is currently chairman of the US Science and Technology 
 Advisory Committee for Manned Space Flight of NASA, member of the 
 US President's Science Advisory Committee, vice president of the 
 American Physical Society, and member of various academic societies. 
 
Professor 
 Townes married Frances H. Brown in 1941. They now live in Berkeley, 
 California and have four daughters. 

  


 
