[title]World-renowned Pharmaceutical Scientist Takes the Helm of CUHK Pharmacy School


 

 

 [/title]

[date]17 December 2006[/date]


 World-renowned Pharmaceutical Scientist Takes the Helm of CUHK Pharmacy School
 
 Professor Vincent Lee Hon-leung, a world leader in pharmaceutical science, has joined The Chinese University of Hong Kong as director of the School of Pharmacy. Professor Lee has achieved pioneering contributions in the studies and research in ocular drug delivery and macromolecular drug delivery.
 Seeing Asia as the next hotspot in drug development, Professor Lee is excited about the prospect of introducing innovative educational and research programmes in Hong Kong and networking with other stakeholders in China and Asia to advance pharmaceutical education and research.
 Besides being the champion of patients with respect to access to safe and cost- and therapeutically effective medicine under the care of their pharmacists, the School is a source of innovative ideas and technological breakthroughs for the blossoming pharmaceutical and traditional Chinese medicine industry in Hong Kong, China, and elsewhere in the world.
 The School of Pharmacy will celebrate its 20th anniversary in 2012, Professor Lee envisions a doubling in the size of the teaching staff and that of the undergraduate student population, a tripling in the size of extramural research funds as well. 
 The School will capitalize on CUHK¡¦s research strength to build a strong multidisciplinary research programme in nanotechnology as the focal point of creating new research projects and of introducing diversity into postgraduate pharmaceutical training; apply nano-, bio- and information technology to assess the therapeutic value of, and integrate with western medicine traditional Chinese and herbal medicine in health and disease management, added Professor Lee.
 Professor Lee received his secondary education at Queen¡¦s College in Hong Kong and achieved his bachelor¡¦s degree in pharmacy at Ferris State University in 1974 and his master¡¦s in pharmaceutics in 1978 and Ph.D. in pharmaceutics 1979 at University of Wisconsin. He then joined the faculty of University of Southern California (USC) and become chairman of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences in 1990. Before joining CUHK, he was Associate Director, Office of Pharmaceutical Science, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration. (since March 2004) Professor Lee served as President of the American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists (AAPS) as well the Controlled Release Society. Presently, he is editor-in-chief of Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews and Pharmaceutical Research. As a world leader in the science and technology of peptide and protein drug delivery and the most highly cited author in the area of ocular drug delivery, Professor Lee¡¦s research has been recognized by numerous international honours and awards, including the Young Investigator Award of the Controlled Release Society, AAPS Research Achievement Award in Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery, and Distinguished Scientist of the Year award by Federation Internationale Pharmaceutique. In 2003, he was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science degree from the University of London, United Kingdom.

 
