[title]Multicentre Study Explains: How Environment and Diet Related to Different Rates of Asthma in Chinese Children[/title]

[date]27 August 2004[/date]


 Multicentre Study Explains:
 How Environment and Diet Related to Different Rates of Asthma in Chinese 
 Children 
 
Environmental factors and diet may explain the higher rates of asthma 
 seen in developed countries, a multicentre study of Chinese children 
 by the Department of Paediatrics and the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong in collaboration with Guangzhou 
 Institute of Respiratory Disease and the Clinical and Education Centre 
 for Asthma of the Capital Institute of Paediatrics in Beijing confirms. 
 
The 
 study involved 10,902 children aged 10 years from three cities in China 
 at different stages of modernization, namely Hong Kong, Beijing and 
 Guangzhou. Asthma is one of the most common chronic disorders in children, 
 and its prevalence varies worldwide. Consistent reports from different 
 countries indicate an increase in prevalence of asthma and allergies. 
 This increasing trend cannot be explained by genetic factors. Despite 
 numerous studies in different communities, the factors related to the 
 increasing prevalence of asthma are largely unknown, probably because 
 the factors are so widespread that it is difficult for epidemiological 
 studies to identify them. In China the prevalence of asthma is lower 
 than that in the West, and within China the prevalence varies across 
 regions-for example, over one year, 12.4% and 10.1% of children aged 
 13 and 14 years in Hong Kong had wheeze compared with 4.2% and 2.0% 
 of children on the mainland. As children from these regions have a similar 
 genetic background, it may be possible to determine the environmental 
 factors associated with asthma, Professor Gary Wong Wing-kin and Professor 
 Leung Ting-Fan of the Department of Paediatrics, CUHK explained the 
 findings of the study. Randomly selected subgroups of children from 
 each city, totalling 3483, underwent a skin prick test for sensitivity 
 to eight common aeroallergens, such as pollen and dust. Researchers 
 then evaluated the association between current wheeze and environmental 
 factors and diet including cooking by gas, foam pillows, cotton quilts, 
 damp housing (mould on ceiling or walls), pets, and contact with cats, 
 dogs, or farm animals and consumption of meat, fruit, cooked green vegetables, 
 and raw vegetables. 
The 
 prevalence of wheeze was significantly higher in children from Hong 
 Kong (see table 1). Other symptoms, including 
 speech limiting wheeze and exercise induced wheeze, were also more common 
 in children. Living on the mainland was associated with a significantly 
 reduced risk of current wheeze (see table 
 3) It was found that factors during the first year of life and currently 
 that were significantly associated with wheeze were cooking by gas, 
 foam pillows, and damp housing; protective factors were cotton quilts, 
 consumption of fruit more than once a day, and consumption of raw vegetables 
 at least once a week (see table 2). 
"We 
 have observed that the prevalence of asthma and atopic symptoms is higher 
 in children in Hong Kong than those on the Mainland. Now we identified 
 significant environmental and diet factors that could explain this difference 
 and we may be able to design preventive strategies for this disease," 
 concluded Professor Fok Tai Fai, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK. 
 The findings were published in this week's issue of British Medical 
 Journal. This collaborative research project started in 1995 and has 
 secured two RGC earmarked research grants. The project provided a good 
 foundation for the collaboration of the three institutions. The results 
 provided solid and reliable data for further work in the field of asthma 
 epidemiology. With further economic development and modernization in 
 Mainland China, the prevalence of asthma will certainly increase and 
 it is extremely important to determine the factors that are responsible 
 for the development of asthma in Chinese children. Research presentation 
 of the results was awarded the first prize at the Hong Kong Thoracic 
 Society meeting (2003) and the second prize in the Hong Kong Paediatric 
 Society meeting (2002). T 
 
 

 
