[title]CUHK Held its 63rd Congregation for Conferment of Degrees


 

 

 [/title]

[date]7 December 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong Held its 
 63rd Congregation for Conferment of Degrees 
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 63rd Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees today. Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng, Chairman of the University Council presided at the Congregation.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong conferred honorary doctorates on six distinguished persons, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, and the development of the University. They are: Professor Chen Shupeng, a pioneer in remote sensing and geoinformation science research in China, an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences; The late Dr. the Honourable Fok Ying-tung, Henry, a distinguished entrepreneur and philanthropist, Vice-Chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People¡¦s Political Consultative Conference of The People¡¦s Republic of China; Dr. Ho Tzu-cho, David, a distinguished banker and philanthropist, currently Chairman of The S. H. Ho Foundation; The Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew of the Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Professor Wu Guanzhong, a great master of Chinese painting; and Professor Yao Chi-chih, Andrew, Turing Award winner in 2000 and Distinguished Professor-at-Large of the Chinese University.
Dr. the Honourable Fok Ying-tung, Henry was conferred posthumously the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. The Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew was conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Professor Wu Guanzhong received the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa. Professor Chen Shupeng and Professor Yao Chi-chih, Andrew were each awarded the degree of Science, honoris causa. Dr. Ho Tzu-cho, David received the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa.
At the Congregation, besides the six honorary doctorate degrees, a total of 5,903 degrees were conferred. These included 6 Doctor of Medicine degrees, 188 Doctor of Philosophy degrees, 6 Doctor of Education degrees, and 2,921 postgraduate students received their Master¡¦s degree. 2,782 were awarded Bachelor¡¦s degree which included 434 Bachelor of Arts, 542 Bachelor of Business Administration, 52 Bachelor of Education, 379 Bachelor of Engineering, 2 Bachelor of Medical Sciences, 154 Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery, 108 Bachelor of Nursing, 26 Bachelor of Pharmacy, 26 Bachelor of Chinese Medicine, 514 Bachelor of Science and 545 Bachelor of Social Science. 
 Attachments:
A Citation of Professor Chen Shupeng
A Citation of Dr the Honourable Fok Ying-tung, Henry
A Citation 
 of Dr Ho Tzu-cho, David
A Citation of The Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew
A Citation of Professor Wu Guanzhong
A Citation of Professor Yao Chi-chih, Andrew
An address given by The 
 Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew 


Dr Edgar W K Cheng, Chairman of the University Council (middle), Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (3rd from the right) and the honorary graduates (from left): Mr Ian Fok (representing the late Dr Henry Fok), Dr David Ho, The Honourable Chief Justice Andrew Li, Professor Chen Shupeng and Professor Andrew Yao. 
 
 
 

Professor Chen Shupeng, Doctor of Science, honoris causa
 
Dr Ho Tzu-cho, David, Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa 
 

Professor Yao Chi-chih, Andrew, Doctor of Science, honoris causa (right) 
The Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew, Doctor of Laws, honoris causa 






 
