[title]CUHK's Mathematician Ranked Amongst Top Number of Citations[/title]

[date]23 December 2003[/date]


 CUHK's Mathematician Ranked Amongst Top Number of Citations 
 
Professor Wei Juncheng, Professor at the Department of Mathematics 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, is one of the only two mathematicians 
 from Asian universities that were ranked amongst the top 50 in the number 
 of citations through 1993-2003.
The 
 ranking was reflected by Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-E) which 
 is compiled by the Institute for Science Information and covers 5,900 
 world's leading scholarly science and technical journals covering more 
 than 150 disciplines. SCI-E is not only a reference tool for research 
 but also an indicator of research achievement. Professor Wei was ranked 
 48 amongst the mathematicians around the world. Graduated from the University 
 of Minnesota, USA, Professor Wei joined CUHK in 1995 and is currently 
 a Professor at the Department of Mathematics.
Professor 
 Wei's research demonstrates a mix of the art of mathematics and applied 
 science. His primary research is nonlinear partial differential equations, 
 in particular, equations arising from physical and biological sciences. 
 A key issue in developmental biology is a mathematical understanding 
 of how diverse patterns in nature, such as spots and stripes on sea-shells, 
 fish and zebra, are produced. During the last twenty years, scientists 
 studied these problems using partial differential equations (PDEs) by 
 standard linear method. Such method can only predict patterns near uniform 
 state. By using rigorous and sophisticated nonlinear PDE methods, Professor 
 Wei and his collaborators developed a systematic approach in treating 
 nonlinear patterns and obtained a complete understanding of nonlinear 
 patterns in one or two spatial dimensions. Professor Wei and his team 
 are considered a leading group in this area of study and their work 
 has opened up new dimensions in both pure and applied mathematics, and 
 attracted many researchers from different areas.
Professor 
 Wei's another research area is mathematical theory of material science, 
 with focus on the morphology of block copolymers. Block copolymers are 
 soft, synthetic materials developed to have exquisite mechanical, electrical, 
 optical, ionic and barrier properties for industrial and commercial 
 use. They are found in products like upholstery foam, adhesive tape, 
 and asphalt additives. Professor Wei explains the nature of block copolymer 
 with mathematical models, which, among other applications help design 
 thermoplastic elastomers that combine high-temperature resilience and 
 low-temperature flexibility, inexpensive box tape that achieves pressure 
 sensitive adhesion, and medical implantation of specific surface properties. 
 
Professor 
 Wei Juncheng
 

 
