[title]CUHK 40th Anniversary Fair Opens this Saturday[/title]

[date]20 September 2003[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 40th Anniversary Fair Opens 
 this Saturday 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong is celebrating its 40th Anniversary 
 and one of the highlight celebratory programmes - The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong 40th Anniversary Fair opens this Saturday. Members of the 
 public can visit the University during 21 to 26 September to appreciate 
 the visions and aspirations of the University founders, the spectacular 
 progress it has made, its contributions to the community and the wonderful 
 achievement of its staff and students. They can also tour around the 
 beautiful campus and feel the savour of campus life through games and 
 performances.
The establishment of the 
 University in 1963 is a major milestone in the history of tertiary education 
 in Hong Kong. In the past 40 years this thriving University has achieved 
 remarkable progress in teaching and research and gained international 
 recognition.
The Fair encapsulates 
 the University's development along with the growth of Hong Kong and 
 looks forward to advancement and excellence in the next decade. The 
 first of the three-part exhibition: Heritage and Vision 
 how the University, from its foundation 40 years ago, has come of age 
 together with Hong Kong. Through images, this story, at once sentimental 
 and glorious, begins with the colleges coming together to form the University, 
 and continues with the physical move onto one campus, then barren, now 
 lush.
The Impact on Education 
 and Society will show how CUHK contributes to education and 
 society in Hong Kong, and around the region. This exhibition portrays 
 some prominent examples, including the creation of the internet hub 
 in Hong Kong, links with academic institutions across the world, achievements 
 by students and graduates, major research centres and their research 
 accomplishments, degree programmes offered beyond Hong Kong, outreach 
 and support to local schools, promotion of art and archaeology. A special 
 section pays tribute to the outstanding scientific research and first-rate 
 clinical care that were key elements in Hong Kong's recent victory over 
 SARS.
Innovations and 
 Inventions will showcase tangible inventions and innovations 
 that bring direct benefits to the community. Examples include micro-generators 
 that produce electricity from tiny vibrations, artificial intelligence 
 to combat crime, Chinese language processing systems for speech recognition 
 and synthesis, a computerized database of ancient Chinese texts, intelligent 
 search and archival systems for media resources, efficient video streaming 
 technology, and an electronic platform for supply-chain management. 
 Medical innovations include diagnostics and treatment for liver and 
 nasal cancer, technology for assisted reproduction, understanding and 
 treating stomach ulcers, identification of foetal DNA/RNA in maternal 
 blood circulation. All these are first in the world, and many of these 
 inventions are now used in industry and in health care.
Visitors will have the 
 opportunity to come into close contact with a number of projects exhibited 
 as interactive games and booths, such as Computerized Chinese Ancient 
 Words Game, psychological analysis, Chinese Medicine and architecture 
 displays, so that even non-experts can gain an appreciation of the subject 
 matter and the accomplishments. There will also be student performances 
 and robot shows, bringing to life the dynamic campus life. Victors can 
 also join the guided tours organized by the Art Museum and libraries, 
 or savour the beautiful campus through the cultural trail. Details of 
 the Fair can be viewed at the website http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/fair/. 
 

 
