[title]The CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre Opened Today[/title]

[date]18 November 2005[/date]


 Making New Frontiers in Training and Research for the Benefits of Patients
The CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre Opened Today 
 The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has established Asia Pacific¡¦s first multi-disciplinary surgical skills training centre to meet the urgent needs at the heart of surgery. The CUHK Jockey Club Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre (CUHK JC MISS Centre) is equipped with leading edge technologies designed for comprehensive modern surgical training and skills development, in particular for the full range of minimally invasive surgery (MIS). These revolutionary training methods in surgery by incorporating the benefits of advanced technologies will greatly improve the quality of patient care.
CUHK was amongst the world¡¦s pioneers in MIS and was the first to introduce MIS to Hong Kong. Over the years, members of different divisions have developed a great number of novel MIS techniques, with many world¡¦s and Asia¡¦s firsts having been performed at the Prince of Wales Hospital. The Opening Ceremony of CUHK JC MISS Centre marked the commencement of the Silver Jubilee of the Faculty of Medicine, CUHK. Mr John C.C. Chan, Deputy Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Mrs. Carrie Yau, Permanent Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Dr Vivian Taam Wong, Chief Executive of Hospital Authority, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Professor T.F. Fok, Dean of Medicine of CUHK, Dr. Hong Fung, Hospital Chief Executive of Prince of Wales Hospital, Professor Andrew van Hasselt, Chairman of the Executive Committee of CUHK JC MISS Centre and Professor C. K. Yeung, Director of CUHK JC MISS Centre officiated at the ceremony. The establishment of the Centre will maintain CUHK¡¦s pioneer position in Hong Kong and Asia to master and further develop the MIS concept which is fundamental to the future of surgery.
The Centre is one of the largest multi-disciplinary surgical skills centre in the Asia Pacific region. The surgeons can refine their MIS techniques through training workshops, laboratory researches, surgical practice facilitated by the state-of-the-art technologies, as well as collaboration with local and international stakeholders. It is envisaged that the CUHK Jockey Club MISS Centre will advance MIS skills to higher levels benefiting local and regional communities with enhanced quality health care, said Professor Lawrence Lau at the Opening Ceremony. I am sure that through the innovative application of leading-edge technology as well as its comprehensive multi-disciplinary MIS training programmes for related professionals, the Centre will not only improve the quality of patient care in Hong Kong, but will also enable Hong Kong to take a leading role in MIS in the Asia Pacific region, said Mr. John Chan, Deputy Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club.
The evolution of MIS has brought dramatic changes to the practice of all surgical disciplines. The advent of MIS significantly reduces the trauma of surgery and pain suffered by patients and enables faster recovery lowering the cost of surgical procedures and aftercare. MIS has been widely applied to operations of the abdomen, chest, head and neck, brain and vascular system and has also been proven both safe and effective in children and even newborn infants; however, its wide applications also put pressing challenges to traditional apprenticeship methods of surgical training. The CUHK JC MISS Centre will provide surgeons with dedicated laboratory-setting MIS training facilities to sharpen their skills through training workshops, laboratory researches, surgical practice facilitated by the state-of-the-art technologies, as well as collaboration with local and international stakeholders.
The HK$50-million CUHK JC MISS Centre is funded by a generous donation of HK$28.2 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club and support from Kai Chong Tong, the University and the community-at-large. In the Centre, there are a surgical skills laboratory, a virtual reality laboratory, two state-of-the-art endo-surgery operating theatre suites, a simulated operating room, the only leading-edge robotic surgical system in Hong Kong, a microsurgical and endoscopic surgical laboratory and a seminar room all linked by teleconferencing facilities.
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University is celebrating its Silver Jubilee. It admitted the first cohort of medical students in 1981. During the past 25 years, the Faculty has trained over 3,500 doctors, nurses and pharmacists providing much of the health professional manpower needed for Hong Kong. Through collaboration with the local and world-renowned institutions and the staunch support from the benefactors of the community, the Faculty has conducted numerous world-class research projects and pioneered many medical treatments. The development of minimally invasive surgery was one of the best illustrations on how the Faculty has thrived for new innovations despite seemingly insurmountable hurdles.
Following the Opening of the CUHK JC MISS Centre was the 15th International Surgical Symposium: Surgery of the Future: Innovation to Revolution organized and hosted by the Department of Surgery, CUHK. Internationally renowned experts and world leaders in MIS and biomedical engineering from both Europe and the USA gathered to share with the delegates their thoughts and vision on how cutting edge technologies would help reshape both the learning and practice of surgery in the near future. Over 400 delegates from China, Hong Kong and many parts of the world participated in the Symposium. 
 
 From left:
 Professor Andrew van Hasselt, Chairman of the Executive Committee of CUHK JC MISS Centre
 Dr. Hong Fung, Hospital Chief Executive of Prince of Wales Hospital
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK
 Mrs. Carrie Yau, Permanent Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
 Mr John C.C. Chan, Deputy Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club
 Professor T. F. Fok, Dean of Faculty of Medicine, CUHK
 Professor C. K. Yeung, Director of CUHK JC MISS Centre
 Speakers of the press conference:
 Professor Jacques Marescaux, WebSurg Editor-in-Chief, Head of General and Digestive Surgery Department, University of Louis Pasteur, Chairman IRCAD-EITS, Strasbourg, France
 Professor Andrew van Hasselt, Chairman of the Executive Committee of CUHK JC MISS Centre
 Professor C. K. Yeung, Director of CUHK JC MISS Centre


 
