
[title]CUHK Pioneers the Use of Intragastric Balloon for Obesity in the Asia-Pacific Region[/title]

 




[date]11 August 2005[/date]

CUHK 
 Pioneers the Use of Intragastric Balloon for Obesity 
 in the Asia-Pacific Region
 
The prevalence of obesity has been increasing rapidly in the past 
 decade and the related diseases are becoming a major burden to the 
 health care system worldwide. The Department of Surgery and the 
 Department of Medicine and Therapeutics of the Faculty of Medicine 
 at The Chinese University of Hong Kong have recently introduced 
 the use of intragastric balloon to treat obesity in Hong Kong and 
 the initial results are very promising.
 
 
Intragastric balloon is a newly developed non-surgical weight 
 reduction treatment. The procedure involves the placement of a saline-filled 
 silicon balloon inside the stomach for 4-6 months by endoscope to 
 decrease the capacity and emptying of stomach, and therefore, consumption 
 of food. Early satiety produced by the balloon facilitates compliance 
 to a hypocaloric diet. Together with an increasing level of physical 
 activity, results in dramatic weight loss. 
There 
 are a lot of advantages of intragastric balloon. The procedure can 
 be easily performed within thirty minutes on an out-patient basis 
 and does not require general anaesthesia. More importantly, it can 
 be repeated when indicated and is totally reversible. The reported 
 weight loss in the literature can be up to 15-20% of the body weight. 
 Most side effects such as nausea and vomiting are usually mild and 
 will usually subside after two weeks of placement. A significantly 
 higher acceptability of the intragastric balloon technique is observed 
 in Chinese patients than other kinds of obesity surgery. 
Although 
 intragastric balloon treatment is generally safe, strict compliance 
 to doctors' recommendations and follow-up plans is required to avoid 
 serious complications like premature rupture of balloon and stomach 
 perforation which can be potentially dangerous. Suitability of intragastric 
 balloon of each individual has to be carefully assessed by multidisciplinary 
 obesity team with intragastric balloon experience before the treatment. 
 The following conditions are considered not suitable for intragastric 
 balloon: 
1) 
 Previous gastric surgery 
2) 
 Peptic ulcer disease 
 3) Large hiatus hernia 
 4) Psychiatric illness 
 5) Alcoholism or drug addiction 
 6) Not compliant to clinician or dietitian advice and follow-up 
 
 7) Pregnant or breast-feeding 
CUHK 
 has introduced this new technique at the Prince of Wales Hospital 
 for management of obese Chinese patients since November 2004. To 
 date, a total of 48 patients (34 women; mean age 39.4) have undergone 
 intragastric balloon. The mean body weight (BW) and body mass index 
 (BMI) were 105 (range: 67 to183.6) kg and 39 (range 26.5-69.1) kg/m2 
 respectively. The obesity team critically selected the most suitable 
 patients before the application of intragastric balloon procedure 
 by extensive investigations and counseling. Based on Western and 
 our experience, potential Asian candidates suitable for intragastric 
 balloon are as follows:
 
 1) Patients with morbid obesity (BMI &gt;50) as a pre-surgical treatment 
 to minimize surgical risks 
 2) Patients with BMI &gt;37 who are not suitable or reluctant for obesity 
 surgery 
 3) Patients with BMI &gt;30 with repetitive failure of previous weight 
 reduction therapies and are not recommended for obesity surgery¡@ 
 
 4) Patients with BMI &lt;30 with obesity-related diseases with repetitive 
 failure of previous weight reduction therapies. 
After 
 balloon placement, patients need to adopt a new diet regimen. They 
 are advised to take fluid diet in the first week and normal diet 
 can then be gradually introduced. A hypocaloric diet of around ~1200 
 kcal/day and 150 minutes/week of moderately intense exercise are 
 prescribed during the programme. The balloon needs to be taken out 
 on or before 6 months to avoid premature leaking or rupture. All 
 patients are followed up by the obesity team monthly at the combined 
 obesity clinic of Prince of Wales Hospital to monitor progress. 
 
Our 
 initial results are very encouraging. We observed a mean weight 
 loss of 16.4 kg (14.9% of BW) and 42.6% of excessive body weight 
 loss after six months in most cases. The mean waist circumference 
 loss after the programme was 12.9cm. Most obesity-related diseases 
 such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol were alleviated 
 with significantly improvement in quality of life after the treatment. 
 There were no serious complications and 85% of patients were extremely 
 satisfied with the programme. 
The 
 ultimate aim of the intragastric balloon programme is to correct 
 the eating habits of our patients through behavioral modification. 
 The patients learn to eat slowly with less food. With an increased 
 level of physical exercise, obese patients should be able to live 
 more healthily and less prone to obesity-related diseases. Our initial 
 results showed that the intragastric balloon technique is safe and 
 very effective in treating obesity in our population. 
From the left : Dr. Wilfred Lik 
 Man MUI, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery;
 Professor Enders Kwok Wai NG, Head of Division of Upper Gastrointestinal 
 Surgery, Department of Surgery; 
 Dr. Francis Chun Chung CHOW, Head of Division of Endocrinology, 
 Department of Medicine and Therapeutics; 
 and Dr. Wing Yee SO, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics 
 




 
