[title]Minimally Invasive Surgery for Inguinal Hernia in Children[/title]

[date]14 October 2004[/date]


 Minimally Invasive Surgery for Inguinal Hernia in Children:
 A New Gold Standard 
 
Inguinal hernia is one of the most common surgical problems in young 
 children. It occurs in 3-5% of full-term babies and about 20% of pre-term 
 infants. It is due to the presence of a persistently patent processus 
 vaginalis through which intra-abdominal organs like the small bowel 
 and in girls, even the ovaries and the uterus, may prolapse out from 
 the peritoneal cavity into the hernial sac. Obstruction and strangulation 
 of the prolapsed organ may ensue, resulting in organ ischaemia, necrosis, 
 peritonitis and even death. Surgical repair of the inguinal hernia 
 is the only definitive and effective treatment.
Traditionally, 
 standard surgical repair is performed via an open inguinal exploration. 
 This has the disadvantages of not only requiring a bigger incision 
 and carries the risk of damage to the vas deferens and testicular 
 vessels, but also the inability to reliably exclude the presence of 
 a contralateral hernia, which occurs in about 20-30% of cases. As 
 a result many paediatric surgeons, especially those in North America, 
 have been advocating routine exploration of the contralateral side 
 in order to avoid a subsequent second operation and general anaesthesia.
The 
 Division of Paediatric Surgery and Paediatric Urology, The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong has pioneered a new method combining the use 
 of the laparoscope and a specially made herniotomy hook, which was 
 designed by and named after the Division Head, Professor Yeung Chung 
 Kwong, to repair inguinal hernia in infants and children.
Under 
 the magnified view with the laparoscope, the anatomy of the hernial 
 defect and its nearby important structures like the vas deferens and 
 testicular vessels can be very clearly visualized. More importantly, 
 the presence or absence of a contralateral hernia can be assessed 
 with absolute certainty at the same time, thus avoiding any unnecessary 
 exploration. The specially designed herniotomy hook allows complete 
 dissection and ligation of the hernial sac under laparoscopic guidance, 
 while safeguarding the vas and testicular vessels. If a contralateral 
 hernia is present this can be easily repaired in a similar fashion 
 at the same time, thereby eliminating the risk of a subsequent contralateral 
 hernia and the need for a second operation. The procedure is performed 
 as Day Surgery and all patients will be discharged home on the same 
 day. As post-operative pain is usually minimal, nearly all children 
 can resume normal activities and return to school the day immediately 
 after the procedure. The resulting wounds are tiny and would become 
 almost invisible in a few weeks' time.
Since 
 October 2000 the division has successfully performed laparoscopic 
 herniotomy using the technique described in 325 infants and children 
 at the Prince of Wales Hospital. All patients recovered uneventfully, 
 with no intra- or post-operative complications encountered. On follow-up, 
 all patients remained well with excellent cosmetic results. There 
 were only 2 recurrences (0.6%), which compares favourably with published 
 results using the traditional or standard open approach.
Our 
 experience shows that this new technique has distinct advantages of 
 shorter operative time, smaller wounds with minimal post-operative 
 pain, less analgesic requirement, more rapid recovery, excellent cosmetic 
 effects with nearly invisible scars, and high effectiveness with extremely 
 low recurrence rates. Most importantly, this new technique allows 
 accurate assessment for any contralateral hernia, thus avoiding the 
 need for unnecessary contralateral exploration yet at the same time 
 eliminates the risk for a second operation. In cases of acute obstruction, 
 this approach also enables assessment of the viability of the strangulated 
 bowel and other intra-abdominal organs, thus providing extra safety 
 over the traditional open approach. We believe this novel minimally 
 invasive technique of laparoscopic herniotomy should become the new 
 gold standard for hernia repair in infants and children. 
 
 
 

 
