[title]Noted Actuary, Healthcare Experts and Business LeadersTo Confer on Post-SARS Crisis Management Issues[/title]

[date]7 July 2003[/date]


Noted Actuary, Healthcare Experts and Business Leaders
 To Confer on Post-SARS Crisis Management Issues 
 
Professor Harry Panjer, President of the Society of Actuaries, USA, 
 and a renowned scholar of actuarial science, will deliver a keynote 
 speech at the "From Risk to Crisis Management: A Post-SARS Revival Workshop" 
 to be held on Friday, 18 July 2003, at Conrad Hong Kong. This Workshop 
 is jointly organized by The Chinese University of Hong Kong's MBA Programmes 
 and Risk Management Science Programme, and is an event to commemorate 
 CUHK's 40th Anniversary.
Other speakers include 
 Roger Luk, Managing Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Hang Seng 
 Bank; Alan Wong, General Manager Corporate Communications of Cathay 
 Pacific Airways and Dr. Allen Cheung, Cluster Chief Executive (New Territories 
 West) of the Hospital Authority. A panel discussion will follow. Panelists 
 include Mr. Frank Martin, President of the American Chamber of Commerce 
 in Hong Kong, Brigadier Christopher Hammerbeck, Executive Director of 
 The British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong; Mrs. Irene Heffernan Ho, 
 Principal, KPMG; and Professor Edith Lau of CUHK's Faculty of Medicine.
"The SARS epidemic has 
 been an unprecedented challenge for Hong Kong," said Professor Vincent 
 Lai, Associate Dean of the University's Faculty of Business Administration 
 and Director of the MBA Programmes. "This is a great opportunity to 
 gather together actuarial experts, business leaders and healthcare professionals 
 to share their insights and experience. More importantly, how Hong Kong 
 can turn this challenge into opportunities."
"We are particularly honoured 
 to have an renowned actuarial expert from Toronto to show us the way," 
 added Professor Chan, Director of the Risk Management Science Programme. 
 "Professor Panjer is a well-known authority on the subject of actuarial 
 science. He is a Professor of Actuarial Science at the University of 
 Waterloo, Canada, and is the second academic actuary to be elected to 
 head the formidable Society of Actuaries. He has lectured in over 20 
 countries and has published many books and technical papers on actuarial 
 matters. Given his extensive knowledge and experience both as a researcher 
 and practitioner, he will have a lot of valuable insight for us on the 
 measurement and management of epidemic risks."
To register for this Workshop, 
 please visit http://www.sta.cuhk.edu.hk/SARS/Workshop2003/
 

 
