[title]Arresting Myopia Progression in Children by Atropine Eye Ointment[/title]

[date]20 July 2004[/date]


 Arresting Myopia Progression in Children by Atropine Eye Ointment
 
Myopia is the most common ocular disorder worldwide. Hong Kong is 
 among the highest prevalence of myopia in the world (double that of 
 the United States and comparable to Asian counterparts such as Taiwan 
 and Singapore). A previous survey by the Department of Ophthalmology 
 and Visual Sciences (DOVS) of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 (CUHK) on 7,560 primary school children in Hong Kong revealed a myopia 
 figure of 36.7%. A significant proportion (10.7%) have moderate (300~599¢X) 
 to high myopia (600¢X). Progression of myopia is more rapid in children 
 with higher degrees of myopia. Myopia is also associated with sight 
 threatening complications. The higher the degree of myopia, the greater 
 the risk is. Here below are some such examples: -
- 
 People with myopia are 2 times more likely to develop 
 retinal detachment.
 - People with myopia are 3 times more likely to develop 
 glaucoma.
 - People with myopia are 4 times more likely to develop 
 cataract.
 - People with myopia are 3 times more likely to develop 
 blindness.
Such 
 figures have major implications for individuals and the community 
 in terms of physical and financial burden. In the United States alone, 
 it is estimated that 5 billion US dollars are spent every year on 
 services and treatments related to myopia.
"Various 
 interventions have previously been used in attempts to arrest progression 
 of myopia including progressive spectacles, conventional rigid gas 
 permeable contact lenses and medications. However, recent studies 
 have shown that atropine therapy is the only available drug/method 
 effective in retarding myopia progression," said Professor Dennis 
 S.C. Lam, Chairman of DOVS of CUHK.
The 
 DOVS of CUHK has conducted a study investigating the safety and efficacy 
 of using atropine eye ointment to reduce or arrest myopia progression 
 in Hong Kong children with moderate to high myopia. The results are 
 very encouraging. "Atropine is a kind of eye drop/ointment that can 
 prevent excessive growth of the sclera, thus causing less elongation 
 of the eye ball," said Dr. Dorothy Fan Shu Ping, Associate Professor 
 of the DOVS of CUHK. "Using 1% Atropine before going to bed, the mean 
 myopic progressions at 1 year were 0¢X and 119¢X for the atropine and 
 control groups respectively; the percentages for no myopic progression 
 in the two groups were 65% and 9% respectively."
Professor 
 Dennis S.C. Lam added, "Although seem relatively safe, atropine therapy 
 may have long-term side effects arising from paralysis of accommodation 
 (leading to pre-senile presbyopia) and pupil dilatation (leading to 
 ultraviolet light damage to the lens and retina). Atropine is worth 
 considering in children at higher risk of developing high myopia, 
 for example, higher degree of myopia at young age, rapid progression 
 of myopia, family history of severe myopia and so on. However, the 
 side effects should be carefully monitored."
The 
 DOVS of CUHK has set up a hotline on "Atropine therapy for arresting 
 myopia progression in children". Parents whose children are 4 years 
 of age or more, with myopia of at least 300¢X and with recent rapid 
 progression can call us for more information. Enquiries can be made 
 to hotline 2637 1343 or fax to 2715 9490. 
 

 
 

 
