[title]United College Dr Tse Yuen Man Memorial Scholarship[/title]

[date]22 May 2003[/date]


United College Dr Tse Yuen Man Memorial Scholarship
 
Dr Tse Yuen Man, a 1992 Medical Graduate of United College and a brave 
 front-line fighter against the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) 
 epidemic, passed away on 13 May 2003 after having contracted SARS herself 
 while trying to save her patients. Everyone at United College and the 
 University mourns her passing away with great sadness. 
Dr Tse was a medical student 
 of United College in 1986-1992. She worked in the United Christian Hospital 
 and Tuen Mun Hospital after graduation and had been highly praised as 
 a caring, energetic and committed doctor. She volunteered to work in 
 the SARS ward soon after the outbreak of the disease. Sadly she became 
 one of the victims of this contagious killer and sacrificed her own 
 life. Her selfless devotion to her patients and strong commitment to 
 her profession deserve the highest respect from all. 
To remember this great 
 fighter against SARS and a truly glorious United graduate, the United 
 College Board of Trustees, United College Alumni Association and United 
 College will jointly set up a Dr Tse Yuen Man Memorial Scholarship in 
 order to encourage more young medical students to continue Dr Tse's 
 vision in utilizing her knowledge to cure pain and save lives. We hope 
 to be able to raise a total fund of HK$500,000 for the scholarship which 
 will be managed by the United College Endowment Fund and awarded on 
 an annual basis to one to two Medical student of United College as a 
 recognition of outstanding academic achievements. Detailed selection 
 and award criteria will be administered by United College. 
The College would hereby 
 invite donations towards the "United College Dr Tse Yuen Man Memorial 
 Scholarship". Please down load a copy of the Donation Form from United 
 College's webpage at: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/uc/forms/donate-DrTseYuenMan.pdf. 
 You may then return your donation with a crossed cheque (payable to 
 the Chinese University of Hong Kong) or, if you prefer, deposit the 
 donation to Hang Seng Bank Account "United College Endowment Fund" (No.:024-280-075797-001) 
 and return the Paid-in Slip with the completed Donation Form to United 
 College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T.. 
For further information 
 and enquiry, please contact Mr C M Tai on 2609 7577 or Mrs Eastre Chan 
 on 2609 7573. 


 
