[title]CUHK sets up the Centre for the Studies of Daoist Culture with the support of Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon[/title]

[date]4 January 2006[/date]


 CUHK sets up the Centre for the Studies of Daoist Culture 
 with the support of Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon 
 The Centre for the Studies of Daoist Culture is established in the Department of Cultural and Religious Studies at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) with the generous support of Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon today. Officiating at the inauguration ceremony today were Mr Qi Xiaofei, Vice-Director of the State Administration for Religious Affairs of the People¡¦s Republic of China, Dr Patrick C.P. Ho, Secretary for Home Affairs of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Master Ren Farong, President of Chinese Daoist Association, Master Lai Hin Wa, Permanent Chairman of Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon, and Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University.
Over a hundred Daoist Masters and followers, government officials, scholars and guests from Hong Kong, mainland China and Macau attended the inauguration ceremony held at Cho Yiu Hall on CUHK campus today. At the ceremony, Prof. Lawrence J. Lau of CUHK and Master Lai Hin Wa of Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon exchanged the agreements on the collaboration signed earlier. Prof. Lai Chi Tim, Professor of the Department of cultural and Religious Studies and director of the new centre, said the centre will focus on advancing academic research on Daoist studies, promulgating knowledge of Daoist culture to the general public, developing Daoist education in local secondary schools and enhancing cultural and academic exchanges among Daoist organizations in Hong Kong and on the mainland. He also thanked the Daoist Fung Ying Seen Koon for their generous support to the centre.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong is committed to the promotion of Chinese culture. The Department of Cultural and Religious Studies has launched various research projects and offered a number of courses on Daoist culture at doctoral and master¡¦s levels some years ago. The new Centre will take the initiatives to release publications on the research of Daoist culture and studies, produce teaching materials for the use of secondary schools, and publish newsletters and academic journals. The Centre also plans to introduce a certificate programme on Daoist culture for the general public and organize summer intensive courses and field trips for Daoist masters and followers. 
 
 


 
