[title]Dealing with Emotional and Adjustment Problems of Cancer Patients


 

 

 [/title]

[date]23 November 2006[/date]


 Dealing with Emotional and Adjustment Problems of Cancer Patients
Manulife Charitable Foundation pledges renewed support 
 for CUHK Psychological Counselling Service 
 
 Manulife Charitable Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation established in 1998 by Manulife (International) Limited, today renewed its sponsorship of The Chinese University of Hong Kong¡¦s cancer-patient counselling service at its Cancer Patient Resource Centre, set up at the Prince of Wales Hospital in 2003. The $720,000 donation will support service of the Centre from 2006 to 2008.
 Cancer and its treatment pose both physical and psychological problems for patients. Depression and anxiety are often under-diagnosed and under-treated. Emotional and adjustment problems could impair patients¡¦ ability to cope with their treatment. To identify patients with such problems and to offer early intervention for those in need, a Psycho-social Screening Program was launched in January this year for patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer by the Faculty of Medicine at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
 The service has been offered to 101 newly diagnosed breast-cancer patients who were to begin their chemotherapy treatment between January and September. The screening was conducted at the Ambulatory Cancer Care Center at the Prince of Wales Hospital. Data obtained from the screening study confirms the high prevalence of depression/anxiety among cancer patients ¡X 40.6% needed clinical attention. Common adjustment problems that these patients experienced were identified and patients¡¦ perceived impairment in different domains of life were also explored. 
 Treatment for anxiety/fear (55% of the patients) and treatment adjustment (41.6%) were the most common requirements. Sexual adjustment was also a problem that breast-cancer patients encountered (10.1%). A significantly greater proportion of depressed/anxious patients than non-depressed/non-anxious patients perceived that they were impaired in such areas as occupational, family, social and life satisfaction. 
 Patients identified as having depression/anxiety problems were referred for psychological service, then assessed again before they received their third chemotherapy treatment. There was an indication that depressed/anxious patients¡¦ level of depression/anxiety decreased upon receiving the psychological help. 
 Professor Tony Mok, Chairperson of the Cancer Patient Resource Center, affirmed that the psycho-social needs of cancer patients should be identified and addressed in cancer-care management. Psycho-social care is an integral part of our service for cancer patients. The psychological counselling service developed at our Cancer Patient Resource Center has been well received by our patients. We are delighted that Manulife Charitable Foundation shares our mission to improve cancer care for the community and continues to support the psychological service in our Cancer Patient Resource Center. He said.
 Manulife cares strongly for the community and is committed to providing for its betterment, said Michael Huddart, Executive Vice President and General Manager for Hong Kong, Manulife (International) Limited, as he presented the donation cheque to Professor Anthony Chan, Chairman of the Department of Clinical Oncology and Director of the Sir Y.K. Pao Center for Cancer, at the presentation ceremony held on 23 November, 2006. 
 We are pleased with the Cancer Patient Resource Center¡¦s effort in reaching out to help patients in special need and we hope that our support and involvement can help to continually raise public awareness of this complex issue, he added. 
 Professor Anthony Chan thanked Manulife Charitable Foundation for its generous support. We are committed to providing a high quality of medical as well as psychological services for cancer patients, he said. We believe that, with our persistent and diligent efforts, we will be able to improve the physical and mental health of our community.
 To provide a comprehensive service for cancer patients, the Department of Clinical Oncology established the Cancer Patient Resource Center in January 2003. Various support programmes have been offered by the Center to cancer patients and their families to facilitate patients¡¦ adjustment throughout their illness and treatment. 
  

 
