[title]CUHK Council Approved the Guidelines for the Establishment of New Colleges[/title]

[date]25 April 2006[/date]


 CUHK Council Approved the Guidelines for 
 the Establishment of New Colleges 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong plans to establish new colleges to accommodate the increased undergraduate enrolment when the curriculum reverts to four years. The plan will enhance the college system through the provision of a congenial learning environment as well as quality non-formal education and pastoral care. At its meeting held this afternoon, the University Council deliberated on the Final Report of the Task Force on New Colleges and approved guidelines for the establishment of new colleges.
 In 2012, when the undergraduate curriculum reverts to four years, the University¡¦s undergraduate population will increase by about 3,000 students. Without new colleges, the enrolment of the four existing colleges will increase from 2,500 students to over 3,200 each. The expanded size of the colleges will make it much more difficult to maintain close contact and interaction between teachers and students, and among students and to create genuine communities of scholars within the colleges. Moreover, not all of the four colleges are prepared to expand their student populations in the coming years. There is hence a pressing need to establish new colleges.
 In line with the Strategic Plan adopted by the Council in January 2006, the University plans to establish one or more new colleges, and accordingly, a Task Force on New Colleges appointed by the Vice-Chancellor conducted an on-site study of college education in six universities/colleges in the U.S. and U.K. On February 16, 2006, the review report of the Task Force was widely disseminated to all members of the University, including teaching staff, students and alumni for consultation. Since mid-February, the Task Force has organized 18 briefings, forums and consultation sessions, and the Chairman and members have met about 5,000 staff, students and alumni to listen to their views. They also held discussions with College Trustees and University Council Members. In addition, 19 written submissions were received. Members of the University agreed that new colleges would have to be established. Planning should start as soon as possible, given the long lead time required. After taking into consideration the views expressed, the Final Report of the Task Force was submitted to the University Council.
 The Council at its meeting today deliberated on the Final Report of the Task Force and approved the guidelines for the establishment of new colleges. The main points are as follows:
1. The mission and vision of the new colleges must conform with the University¡¦s overall educational mission
The University reaffirmed that the common ideals of all colleges are to foster an intimate and cordial community where students and teachers learn, share and grow intellectually; where teachers provide pastoral care and whole-person education for students; and where teachers and students together create an environment for learning and congenial college life. In addition, the educational ideals, mission and vision of each new college should be established from the outset, to guide its development. The mission and vision of the new colleges must conform with the University¡¦s overall educational mission, and must place the education and welfare of students as the prime consideration.
2. Diversity and Choice
The University agreed that small size, full residence and communal dining are essential ingredients in establishing and nurturing an intimate, interactive, congenial and caring community of students and teachers. The University will establish new colleges with a small population, say, of 300-600 fully residential students. These new colleges will provide accommodation for all its students throughout their four years of undergraduate study. All students who live in these new colleges will enrol in college meal plans in the respective college dining halls. The University is aware that not all students would wish to take up full residence in their colleges and to participate in communal dining. Therefore the University also plans to form medium-sized, partially-residential colleges, say of 1,200 students.
 The University cherishes its college system and is keenly aware of the vital importance of its four existing colleges. With a view to strengthening the collaboration between the University and the colleges, and among the colleges, an Informal Advisory Group on University-College Cooperation and Collaboration has been appointed to advise on how the college system may be strengthened. The establishment of new colleges is an important milestone in the University¡¦s development and demonstrates the University¡¦s commitment to further promote and enhance its college system. The University will invite specific suggestions from members of the University on how to further strengthen the colleges and help CUHK to advance.
 


 
