[title]Japanese CG Takanori Kitamura Lectures at CUHK[/title]

[date]18 January 2006[/date]


 Japanese Consul-General Takanori Kitamura Lectures at Chinese University
 Mr. Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong delivered a lecture on Japan¡¦s Diplomacy: Consistency and Evolution today at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. Over 200 people attended the lecture, including CUHK staff and students, consuls-general of various countries, and guests from Japanese business sector.
Mr. Takanori Kitamura was born in 1946. He joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan in 1972 after studying MA in Economics in Keio University. He had served in different divisions of the Ministry including Overseas Public Relations Division, China and Mongolia Division, Eastern Europe Division, and Research and Programming Division. He also served as Deputy Chief of Protocol.
Mr. Kitamura assumed his responsibilities as Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong in March 2004. Before that, he had served in various positions in the Embassy of Japan in China, Philippines, and Greece; the Consulate-General of Japan at Hong Kong; and the Permanent Mission of Japan to the United Nations. These positions included Attache, Second Secretary, First Secretary, Consul, Counsellor, and Minister.
Mr. Kitamura was also Managing Director of Planning and Evaluation Department of the Japan International Cooperation Agency, and Senior Research Fellow of the Japan Institute of International Affairs.
CUHK has the mission of combining tradition and modernity, and bringing together China and the west. To broaden students¡¦ international horizon and to live up to the University¡¦s mission, a series of lectures by diplomats were organized by CUHK. Previously, three lectures were delivered by Mr. Yang Wenchang, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC, Mr. James Cunningham, U.S. Consul-General of Hong Kong and Macau, and Mr. Stephen Bradley, British Consul-General in Hong Kong. 
Attachment:
Transcript of Mr. Takanori Kitamura's speech 
 
Mr. Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong delivered a lecture at CUHK. 
 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (right) presented a campus photo of the Chinese University to Mr. Takanori Kitamura (left). 
 
View Past Lectures 


 
