[title]CUHK Commends Young Researchers[/title]

[date]8 May 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University Commends Young Researchers
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is a distinguished comprehensive research university in the region. It has achieved research excellence in different academic areas. To further promote research development and nurture the next generation of research talents, the University established the Young Researcher Award and the Award for the Best Research Output by Research Postgraduate Students. These annual awards recognize academic staff under forty years old and postgraduate students with exemplary research achievements, encouraging originality and innovation as they strive to create new knowledge to contribute to society. 
 Recipients of the Young Researcher Award 2005 are: 
 Professor Tsang Hon Ki, Department of Electronic Engineering 
 Professor Rossa Chiu Wai Kwun, Department of Chemical Pathology 
 Professor Dennis Ng Kee Pui, Department of Chemistry 
 Professor Wong Kam Chau, Department of Economics 
Recipients of the Award for the Best Research Output by Research Postgraduate Students 2005 are: 
 Mr. Yang Xiang Yin, Department of History 
 Mr. Joe Wenjie Jiang, Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
 Dr. Petti Pang, Department of Physiology 
 Mr. Deng Liang, Department of Chemistry 
 Miss Chow Wing Yin, Department of Psychology 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University presented prizes to these faculty members and students. He said, Their resourcefulness and enthusiasm are truly impressive and their dedication is what is required to perpetuate the fine research tradition on our campus. Their success is an inspiration to us all. 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau (centre) and four recipients of the Young Researcher Award (form left): Professor Wong Kam Chau, Department of Economics, Professor Dennis Ng, Department of Chemistry, Professor Rossa Chiu, Department of Chemical Pathology and Professor Tsang Hon Ki, Department of Electronic Engineering. 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau (3rd from the right) and five recipients of the Award for the Best Research Output by Research Postgraduate Students (form left): Miss Chow Wing Yin, Department of Psychology, Mr Deng Liang, Department of Chemistry, Dr Petti Pang, Department of Physiology, Mr Joe Jiang, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, and Mr Yang Xiang Yin, Department of History. 


 
