[title]G.H. Choa Cardiovascular Centre Opens at Prince of Wales Hospital[/title]

[date]1 December 2003[/date]


 CUHK Enhances Facilities for Training and Clinical Services in 
 Cardiac Intervention
 G.H. Choa Cardiovascular Centre Opens at Prince of Wales Hospital 
 
 
G.H. Choa Cardiovascular Centre at the Prince of Wales Hospital, 
 the teaching hospital of the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong (CUHK), officially opens today. The Centre is funded by 
 a generous donation from Dr the Honourable Lee Quo Wei, GBM, JP, Chairman 
 of the Wei Lun Foundation Limited and Former Chairman of the University 
 Council, CUHK, and a matching grant from the Hospital Authority. The 
 Centre is named after Professor Gerald Hugh Choa, Former Director of 
 Medical and Health Services of the Hong Kong Government, Founding Dean 
 of the Faculty of Medicine and Former Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, in 
 commemoration of his distinguished contributions to medical and health 
 services and medical education in Hong Kong.
Dr Lee 
 together with Mrs Peggy Choa, Dr William Ho, Chief Executive of the 
 Hospital Authority, Dr John Chan Cho-chak, Chairman of the Hospital 
 Governing Committee of the Prince of Wales Hospital, Dr Edgar W K Cheng, 
 Chairman of the University Council, CUHK and Professor Ambrose Y C King, 
 Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, officiated at the opening ceremony.
Cardiovascular 
 diseases are the second leading cause of death in Hong Kong. As a result 
 of high cholesterol diet, unhealthy lifestyle, obesity, smoking, stress 
 and the aging population, the incidence of cardiovascular diseases is 
 increasing. Invasive cardiac service is an essential and integral part 
 of acute medical service. Percutaneous coronary interventions (balloon 
 angioplasty with stenting) have become an effective treatment for coronary 
 artery disease. In the last few years, the number of percutaneous coronary 
 interventions has increased substantially. At the Prince of Wales Hospital, 
 the regional centre for the NT East Cluster, an average of more than 
 500 cases have been performed each year. It is essential that the imaging 
 system can provide high quality pictures in an efficient manner to further 
 enhance percutaneous coronary intervention.
G.H. 
 Choa Cardiovascular Centre is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities 
 to assure excellent quality and safety performance for percutaneous 
 coronary intervention. The newly acquired cardiovascular imaging biplane 
 system is an advanced imaging system which can provide superior performance 
 for multiple biplane projections. The newest technology provides high 
 speed, high resolution digital imaging with a true 1024x1024 matrix. 
 The digital processing is DICOM-compatible, which allows optimal communication 
 and connections. The C arm of the system can rotate at a very high speed, 
 up to 25 degrees/sec. At the same time, an automatic patient safety 
 detector allows the use of fast rotations and angulations with enhanced 
 patient safety through non-contact detection. The sensing system adapts 
 to the patient's size and will automatically slow down and stop moving 
 when a patient gets too close. In addition, the new system can provide 
 superb image quality with lower radiation doses to both patients and 
 the staff.
As the 
 number of interventional cases is increasing and the cases are getting 
 more complex, the new system can help us to complete the procedures 
 with much improved image quality in a shorter time frame with improved 
 safety for both patients and the operators. After the installation of 
 the new equipment, the G.H. Choa Cardiovascular Centre will operate 
 with two cardiac catheter procedure rooms and the Prince of Wales Hospital 
 will be able to provide an expanded and improved cardiac service for 
 the whole region. 
(from 
 left) Dr John Chan Cho-chak, Dr William Ho, Mrs Peggy Choa, Dr the Honourable 
 Lee Quo-wei, Mrs Helen Lee, Dr Fung Hong, Dr Edgar W K Cheng, Professor 
 Ambrose Y C King at the Opening Ceremony of G.H. Choa Cardiovascular 
 Centre. 
G.H. Choa 
 Cardiovascular Centre acquired the most advanced cardiovascular imaging 
 biplane system. 
The cardiovascular 
 imaging biplane system provides superb image quality and enhances safety 
 to both the patients and operators.
 


 
