[title]Lee Shau Kee Foundation Donates HK$50 Million to the Chinese University[/title]

 

 


[date]11 August 2005[/date]

Lee  Shau Kee Foundation Donates HK$50 Million to the Chinese University

 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is proud to announce that it 
 has received a donation of HK$50 million from the Lee Shau Kee Foundation. 
 The donation will be used to support CUHK's pursuit of academic 
 excellence and the establishment of scholarships to nurture talents.
"I 
 always believe quality education is essential for the development 
 of the society. The return on investment can be multiple and even 
 immeasurable," said Dr. Lee Shau Kee, Chairman and Managing Director, 
 Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. "The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong is a renowned education institute that has made numerous achievements 
 in the past. I hope the donation will help it advance further and 
 benefit the whole society."
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University said, 
 "I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Dr. Lee for giving 
 us this generous donation. This donation has great significance 
 to CUHK. It will further enhance our academic strength, and help 
 to make CUHK a centre of excellence both locally and internationally.
The 
 Chinese University has benefited immensely from the foresight and 
 staunch support of Dr. Lee Shau Kee. He helped found the Three-Year 
 MBA Programme with a generous donation. Over the years, he has funded 
 scholarships and sponsored many academic development projects of 
 the University. He has been a Member of the Advisory Board of the 
 MBA Programmes since 1977, and a Member of the Board of Trustees 
 of United College since 1988. In 1991, he and Dr. Cheng Yu Tung 
 jointly donated US$6 million to support the CUHK-Yale South China 
 Studies Programme. In 1993, Dr. Lee was conferred the degree of 
 Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa by the Chinese University 
 in recognition of his distinguished contributions to the community 
 and the University. He was also made an Honorary Fellow of the Chinese 
 University in 2002. 






 
