[title]Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng Succeeds Dr. Lee Hon Chiu as Chairman of the Council of CUHK[/title]

[date]14 August 2003[/date]


Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng Succeeds 
 Dr. Lee Hon Chiu as Chairman of the Council of
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announces that Dr. Lee 
 Hon Chiu, Chairman of the University Council will retire upon the expiry 
 of his present term of office on 23 October 2003. On the nomination 
 of CUHK's Council, Mr. Tung Chee Hwa, Chancellor of the University, 
 has appointed Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng, a member of CUHK's Council, as 
 the next Chairman of the University Council with effect from 24 October 
 2003. 
Dr. Lee Hon Chiu has played 
 an active role in the development of CUHK since he became Council Chairman 
 in 1997. He has worked closely with the Vice-Chancellor to implement 
 management efficiency reviews and improve resources and financial management 
 of the University with great accomplishments which were commended by 
 the University Grants Committee. CUHK also enhanced its quality assurance 
 schemes for educational and research programmes and created mechanism 
 for supporting technology transfer and development. In recent years, 
 CUHK's academic programmes (e.g. MBA and EMBA) have been ranked top 
 in the Asia Pacific region and received wide acclaims. 
During the last six years, 
 CUHK has responded well to the human resources needs of the Hong Kong 
 society and has established a number of professional schools and research 
 institutes. CUHK implemented campus-wide training in information technology 
 and web-based learning. Under the able leadership of Dr. Lee Hon Chiu 
 and the Vice-Chancellor, CUHK has achieved excellent results in recruitment 
 of outstanding academics, enrolment of high quality students both from 
 within and outside Hong Kong, and in obtaining UGC grants for education 
 and research. 
During Dr. Lee's term 
 of chairmanship, CUHK has completed several academic buildings and a 
 state-of-the-art Concert Hall. It has also collaborated with a developer 
 to build a Teaching Hotel and raised substantial donations for the University. 
 
Dr. Lee Hon Chiu led CUHK 
 to review its governance and management structure, explore the viability 
 and feasibility of institutional integration and search for the next 
 Vice-Chancellor of the University. CUHK is most grateful to Dr. Lee 
 Hon Chiu for his remarkable contribution and magnanimous support. Dr. 
 Lee has always concerned himself with the well being and development 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and after his retirement, he 
 will continue to be associated closely with CUHK as a Life Member of 
 the Council. 
Dr. Edgar W. K. Cheng 
 is an eminent leader in the business and financial sector as well as 
 a very outstanding oncologist. He graduated from the University of Notre 
 Dame and the Medical College of Wisconsin in USA. A Clinical Associate 
 Professor of Medicine at the Cornell University Medical College, Dr. 
 Cheng also practised medicine and conducted teaching and research in 
 the world-renowned Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. 
 He has much experience in and a deep appreciation of the various university 
 functions. Formerly Chairman of the University Grants Committee of Hong 
 Kong and a member of the Education Commission, Dr. Cheng was responsible 
 for mapping out the plan for and tendering advice to the Government 
 on higher education development in Hong Kong. He also made important 
 contributions towards formulating the policies for advancement of higher 
 education and allocation of resources. Not only is Dr. Cheng familiar 
 with higher education in Hong Kong, he can also see things from the 
 perspective of a professor, researcher, management and policy decision-maker. 
 He will contribute greatly to CUHK's development in the new era. 
Dr. Cheng returned to 
 Hong Kong from USA in the eighties to undertake family business and 
 public service. He then became the Chairman and Managing Director of 
 The World-Wide Investment Co. Ltd. and was director on the boards of 
 several public and private corporations. He was Vice-Chairman and non-executive 
 director of the Hang Seng Bank Ltd., Chairman of the Stock Exchange 
 of Hong Kong, Vice President of the International Federation of Stock 
 Exchange, Chairman of the Hong Kong Securities Institute, Chairman of 
 the Steering Committee on the Feasibility Study on the Financial Services 
 Institute, Member of the Board of Directors of the Hong Kong Futures 
 Exchange Ltd. as well as Member of the Conference Board's Global Advisory 
 Council. Currently he is a member of the Board of Directors of the Hong 
 Kong Institute for Monetary Research. Dr. Cheng's excellent social and 
 business connections will greatly benefit CUHK's development. 
Since the late 1980's, 
 Dr. Cheng has been very active in public service in Hong Kong. From 
 February 1999 to December 2001, he served as the Head of the Central 
 Policy Unit of the Hong Kong SAR. He is Vice-Chairman of the Council 
 for Sustainable Development as well as Chairman and member of several 
 other public service committees. 
As member of the CUHK's 
 Council, Dr. Cheng has contributed generously his valuable time and 
 advice. He was acting Chairman and member of the Task Force to Advise 
 on Institutional Integration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
 Dr. Cheng is a very capable leader, who has excellent connections and 
 very good reputation in Hong Kong, mainland China and internationally. 
 Dr. Cheng is capable of leading CUHK to grow from strength to strength. 
 
Dr. Edgar 
 W. K. Cheng 

 
