[title]4 renowned scholars at SHKP Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures[/title]

[date]22 May 2006[/date]


 Four renowned scholars at 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 
 The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 2006, jointly organized by the Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), were held today at the Grand Ballroom of Grand Hyatt Hong Kong. Dr. Raymond P. L. Kwok, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of SHKP and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK officiating at the opening ceremony. 
Four world-class scholars, Professor Robert J Aumann, 2005 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences; Professor Robert A. Mundell, 1999 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences; Professor Kurt Wuthrich, 2002 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry; and Professor Samuel C. C. Ting, 1976 Nobel Laureate in Physics gathered in Hong Kong for the first time under the auspices of SHKP and CUHK. The event was extremely well received, and the opening ceremony was a full house. Close to a thousand participants from the academia, industry and public packed the hall of the lectures, with the hope to learn from the words of wisdom of the Laureates. 
For the first time, the lectures including the opening ceremony are broadcast live at Peking University in Beijing which enables teachers and students on the mainland to enjoy the inspiration and charisma of the Nobel Laureates. Besides delivering four distinguished lectures, Professor Robert J. Aumann, Professor Kurt Wuthrich and Professor Samuel C. C. Ting also attended a sharing session with over a hundred local secondary school students. The Sung Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures provide some precious opportunities to promote academic exchange and give people, particularly young people, broader horizons.
 Background 
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures, launched in 2004, are sponsored by Sun Hung Kai Properties. Co-organised by SHKP and CUHK, the lecture series having Nobel Laureates speak to a broad cross-section of the community aims to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, professional and entrepreneurial expertise and contributions to humanity. After this fifth installment of lecture series, there had been twelve Nobel Laureates and other renowned scholars who had lectured in Hong Kong . The previous Lectures all received overwhelming response from the community.


 
 
 
 
 
  


 
