[title]Innovative Supportive Therapy in Cancer Treatment Induced Complications[/title]

[date]18 May 2004[/date]


 Innovative Supportive Therapy in Cancer Treatment Induced Complications
 
With increasing use of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery in the 
 treatment of cancer, the need for supportive therapy for treatment-induced 
 complications has rapidly increased. Innovative supportive therapy can 
 optimize the treatment effect and bring better care to the patients.
The 
 Department of Clinical Oncology at The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 has focused on the development of innovative supportive therapy in two 
 major areas, Hepatitis B carriers at risk of reactivation while receiving 
 chemotherapy and breast cancer patients at high risk for lymphedema, 
 which form an integral and important part of patient care.
 Hepatitis 
 B Reactivation
Chemotherapy 
 is one of the mainstays of therapy for cancer patients. In Hong Kong, 
 10% of cancer patients carry the hepatitis B virus. During chemotherapy, 
 these patients are at risk of developing HBV reactivation, which is 
 a well-known complication resulting in varying degrees of liver damage 
 that may lead to death. With increasing use of chemotherapy, this problem 
 is growing.
"Chemotherapy 
 suppresses the immune system and therefore allows the virus to replicate. 
 Once chemotherapy stops, the immune system recovers and attempts to 
 clear the virus and this causes the biochemical flare-up of hepatitis," 
 explains Dr Winnie Yeo, Associate Professor of the Department of Clinical 
 Oncology, who leads the research on prevention of hepatitis B reactivation 
 in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
It was 
 reported in a recent issue of the Journal of Clinical Oncology that 
 the anti-viral drug, lamivudine, can reduce the risk of HBV reactivation 
 during and after chemotherapy. 258 cancer patients with chronic HBV 
 infection were studied. For the patients who had received the preventive 
 treatment with lamivudine, the drug was given before chemotherapy. They 
 were compared with a control group of patients who did not receive the 
 preventive treatment.
Lamivudine 
 was found to significantly reduce the incidence of HBV reactivation, 
 and that the incidence and associated morbidity of hepatitis from all 
 causes were reduced. Only 5% of the patients receiving lamivudine suffered 
 HBV reactivation compared with 25% who are without. The incidence of 
 hepatitis from all causes was reduced from 45 to 18%. More importantly 
 disruption in chemotherapy was reduced from 35% to 15% and it appears 
 that lamivudine could prevent reactivation associated mortality.
"These 
 results show very clearly that prophylactic lamivudine significantly 
 reduces the incidence of both HBV reactivation and hepatitis. Therefore, 
 cancer patients who are hepatitis B carriers should have anti-viral 
 treatment before the start of chemotherapy," concludes Dr Yeo.
 Lymphedema
Lymphedema 
 is the accumulation of lymph in the interstitial spaces, principally 
 in the subcutaneous fat, caused by a defect in the lymphatic system. 
 It is marked by an abnormal collection of excess tissue proteins, edema, 
 chronic inflammation, and fibrosis. Lymphedema is a frequent complication 
 of cancer and its therapies, and can have long-term physical and psychosocial 
 consequences for patients.
Breast 
 cancer patients are at higher risk for lymphedema. They generally have 
 either mastectomy or lumpectomy with radiation as the treatment modality, 
 and 12-35% will develop clinically significant lymphedema.
A survey 
 conducted by the Department of Clinical Oncology in 2001 revealed that 
 45.6% of 171 respondents suffered lymphedema on the affected limb after 
 breast cancer treatment. 18% of the patients who had undergone breast 
 cancer treatment didn't know they were at risk of developing lymphedema. 
 Most of them have inadequate knowledge on the prevention and care of 
 lymphedema.
Untreated 
 and under-treated lymphedema may cause both functional disability and 
 psychosocial morbidity, which will in turn be a severe health cost to 
 the community. The Department of Clinical Oncology set up in 2003 dedicated 
 service to the prevention and management of lymphedema in breast cancer. 
 Management of lymphedema is in a multidisciplinary approach involving 
 doctors, nurses, physiotherapist, occupational therapist, etc. In the 
 working group, three oncology nurses have completed a training course 
 in lymphedema treatment in Australia.
Services 
 provided include regular arm exercise class, conducting patient support 
 group on lymphedema care and prevention in collaborating with the Cancer 
 Patient Resource Center at the Prince of Wales Hospital and a "Lymphedema 
 Clinic" for providing patients complex physical therapy. The Lymphedema 
 services are supported by Hong Kong Cancer Fund.
With 
 the support of a government research fund, studies on the risk factors 
 of lymphedema and the quality of life of patients undergoing breast 
 cancer treatment have started recently. Health information on the Chinese 
 population will be collected to provide relevant data for the development 
 of an evidenced-based and feasible model of prevention and management. 
 
 
 

 
