[title]CUHK to Launch School of Law[/title]

[date]10 May 2004[/date]


 CUHK to Launch School of Law 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has just received advice from 
 the University Grants Committee (UGC) on the University's Academic Development 
 Proposal for the 2005-08 triennium. The University is pleased that the 
 UGC believes there is merit in establishing a third law school and that 
 it has recommended acceptance of CUHK's proposal to do so in the coming 
 triennium. The establishment of a School of Law is a key element of 
 the University's Ten-Year Vision.
The 
 rule of law is a major competitive advantage for Hong Kong and there 
 is a growing demand for legal talent. CUHK will train quality legal 
 professionals, by recruiting the best students, providing them with 
 the best learning experience, and leveraging on the University's strengths 
 in the humanities and social sciences to enrich the study of law within 
 a broad socio-cultural context. The School of Law will also contribute 
 to the learning and development of law through research, particularly 
 in the context of the different legal and constitutional traditions 
 of the region.
CUHK 
 is grateful to the community, especially the legal profession including 
 some of its most senior members, for their support and advice, and for 
 their confidence in CUHK.
A Planning 
 Committee for the School of Law will be set up under the chairmanship 
 of Dr Anthony Neoh SC, a member of the CUHK Council. Dr Neoh is a senior 
 member of the bar, and has been chairman of the Hong Kong Securities 
 and Futures Commission as well as the chief adviser to the China Securities 
 Regulatory Commission. Dr Neoh is currently Nomura Visiting Professor 
 of International Financial Systems at Harvard Law School. He is also 
 visiting professor in many major universities in Mainland China, including 
 Peking and Tsinghua.
Generous 
 donations from Dr QW Lee and Dr Simon Li will enable the founding of 
 two named Chairs in Law. Dr QW Lee has been for many years the Chairman 
 of the University Council; Dr Simon Li was a senior member of the Hong 
 Kong Judiciary and a major benefactor of CUHK. 
In addition, 
 Mr Warren Chan SC has made a generous donation in support of the School 
 of Law. CY Kwan and Co. and Mr KK Chu have donated major collections of 
 law books. The late Dr CY Kwan was the Founding Chairman of the University 
 Council and Mr Chu is a solicitor in Hong Kong.
The 
 LLB programme will admit students in 2006 and the PCLL in 2007. A JD 
 programme to provide legal education for graduates in non-law subjects 
 will be offered in 2006. Other postgraduate programmes will include 
 a one-year taught LLM that offers a selection of specializations, as 
 well as the MPhil and the PhD, all to be launched in 2007. 
 

 
