[title]The book lunch of C.Y. Tung Diary and The World of C.Y. Tung[/title]

[date]30 November 2004[/date]


The 
 Real Seawise Giant: C.Y. Tung Diary and The World of C.Y. 
 Tung 
 
C.Y. Tung Diary and The World of C.Y. Tung 
 have officially come out. The Chinese University Press and the Tung 
 Foundation hosted a book launch ceremony at The Rotunda, Exchange 
 Square I and II, Central, Hong Kong on 30 November 2004. The officiating 
 guests included the honorable Mr. C.H. Tung, Chief Executive of the 
 HKSAR and the eldest son of C.Y. Tung; Professor Lawrence J. Lau, 
 Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong; and Professor 
 Rayson Huang, a bosom friend of C.Y. Tung and former Vice-Chancellor 
 of The University of Hong Kong. Friends from political, commercial, 
 academic, publishing and media sectors were invited to share the joy.
Named 
 by Forbes (Aug 1, 1970) as one of the top shipping giants in 
 the world, C.Y. Tung (1912-1982) was the pioneer who devoted his whole 
 life to the modernization of Chinese shipping. His diary, containing 
 more than 1 million Chinese characters, clearly reveals his idealism, 
 his professionalism and his dedication in realizing his dream: to 
 put Chinese merchant ships in international waters and to restore 
 China's maritime greatness to the era of Admiral Zheng He of the Ming 
 Dynasty. At the time of his death in 1982, the Far Eastern Economic 
 Review wrote, "The independent shipowner is a special breed of 
 internationalist, ¡K Tung (the world's largest independent owner in 
 terms of number of ships), ¡K was one of the last of the breed."
It 
 has been two decades since C.Y. Tung's death. Much has been written 
 about his legendary life: the shipping magnate who owned 150 ships 
 totalling more than 11 million tons, his role and advocacy for shipboard 
 education, the purchase of the largest passenger ship Queen Elizabeth 
 to turn it into the Seawise University in 1971, and the building 
 of the world's largest ship in the world, the 564,763-ton Seawise 
 Giant, in 1979.
Interest 
 in C.Y. Tung was again aroused when his eldest son, C.H. Tung, became 
 the first Chief Executive of the HKSAR in 1997. The family then decided 
 that it was time to do a proper biography of C.Y. Tung. After much 
 deliberation, they felt that the publication of the diary would be 
 the best source for a thorough understanding of C.Y. Tung.
The 
 4-volume set comprising C.Y. Tung Diary and The World of 
 C. Y. Tung, is published by The Chinese University Press. It is 
 edited by Cheng Hwei Shing. Dr. Cheng, a historian well-versed in 
 the socio-economics in Republican China, is currently Researcher at 
 the Institute of Chinese Studies at The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong. Supplemented with scholarly annotations and precious photos, 
 the diaries reveal the inner world of C.Y. Tung.
Spanning 
 34 years, the diary's first entry, dated March 1948, recorded that 
 the writer, as one of the three representatives of the Ministry of 
 Communication, was on his way to the United States to take delivery 
 of old ships as payment for privately-owned ships destroyed during 
 the Second World War. The last entry was dated 13 April 1982, just 
 two days before his untimely death in Hong Kong.
The 
 4th volume, The World of C.Y. Tung, contains an anthology of 
 articles, letters, reports and speeches by C.Y. Tung. It also features 
 various interviews with C.Y. Tung's friends and counterparts by Alice 
 King, C.Y.'s eldest daughter, in the last four years. They are themselves 
 valuable verbal history records. Commentaries on C.Y. from around 
 the world are included to complement the collection.
The 
 "C.Y. Tung, Larger Than Life" Exhibition, hosted by The Chinese University 
 Press and the Tung Foundation, takes place at The Rotunda, Exchange 
 Square I and II, Central, Hong Kong from 22 November to 4 December 2004.
For 
 details, please contact The Chinese University Press (Tel. No.: 2609 
 6076). 
Attachments:
Welcome Speech by Prof. 
 Lawrence Lau 
Speech by Mrs. Alice King
Speech by Dr. Cheng Hwei 
 Shing 
Speech by Professor Rayson 
 Huang 
Thank you Speech by Dr. 
 Steven K. Luk 
 



 
