
[title]Frontline AandE Academics Support Ambulance Medical Priority Dispatch System[/title]

 




[date]9 August 2005[/date]

Frontline 
 AandE Academics Support Ambulance Medical Priority Dispatch System 
 
 
Frontline Accident and Emergency academics at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong support the introduction of the Ambulance Medical Priority 
 Dispatch System (AMPDS) to Hong Kong proposed by the Hong Kong Fire 
 Services Department and Ambulance Service. Similar systems have 
 been well tested and tried in other countries such as USA, UK and 
 Australia, and have been found to be safe and effective. Hong Kong 
 is 20 years behind the USA in initiating Medical Priority Dispatch 
 systems. 
The 
 ambulance service was initially set up in order to provide an immediate 
 response to those patients with serious injury or illness. 
 The service currently responds on a first call, first served basis, 
 and have service pledges of responding to 92.5% calls in &lt;12 minutes. 
 The new proposal is to introduce ambulance medical priority dispatch 
 whereby well trained operators with clear protocols to follow will 
 receive calls and prioritise the response. The proposed new service 
 pledge will be to provide an immediate response to those calls judged 
 to be most critical in &lt;9 minutes. 
Over 
 the last 5 years, there has been a 70% increase in ambulance cases 
 brought to Emergency Departments, and yet little if any increase 
 in resources. Frontline ambulance men and emergency department staff 
 have become exhausted with this demand especially during the winter 
 periods. By local and international standards, less than 50% calls 
 require an immediate ambulance response, and on arrival at hospital 
 less than 20% patients require to see a doctor immediately. Over 
 60% ambulance patients can wait at least 30 - 60 minutes before 
 seeing a doctor, and 30% can wait many hours.
 
 
Patients with critical illness who call later may have to wait 
 whilst less serious cases are taken to hospital first. For patients 
 with no heart beat, there is a 10% decrease chance of survival for 
 every minute delay in treatment. Ambulances that are driven at speed 
 to meet service pledges for less serious cases puts ambulance staff 
 and the public at unnecessary risk. Thus the current system is not 
 sustainable, strains resources and limits efficiency. The people 
 who suffer most are the genuinely critically ill and injured. 
Thus 
 for both the ambulance service and emergency department personnel 
 there is a need to prioritise the service. From overseas experience, 
 there are few complaints, and no intention to return to the previous 
 service. In one US study of 1000 patients, only 0.3% cases were 
 judged by peer review to be inappropriately categorized, and none 
 of these three cases came to any harm. 
In 
 order for AMPDS to work well, there needs to be a centralized call 
 system; well-trained telephone operators; a simple, quick, reliable, 
 computer based protocol system to follow; independent, transparent, 
 quality control with good statistical support; and high-level ambulance 
 tracking and dispatch system. 
Hong 
 Kong is a world-class city with over 800 well-trained paramedics, 
 low demand of critical cases, and excellent, high-quality telecommunications. 
 AMPDS is well-tested, effective, safe and should be supported.
 




 
