[title]CUHK Collaborates With IBM to Promote Schoolgirls¡¦ Interests in Engineering[/title]

[date]4 August 2006[/date]


 CUHK Collaborates With IBM to Promote Schoolgirls¡¦ Interests in Engineering
 Over 30 schoolgirls received achievement certificates today in the closing ceremony of the IBM E.X.I.T.E. camp, a week-long camp hosted by the Chinese University of Hong Kong for promoting young girls¡¦ interests in engineering. 
The number of girls enrolling in engineering programmes has been increasing, said Professor Kam-Fai Wong, Associate Dean of Engineering (External Affairs) of CUHK. Statistics show that approximately 20% of the students in the Faculty of Engineering, CUHK are female, and in particular, over 40% in the Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management.
Defying the stereotype that engineering is a male dominant profession, Professor Wong said, What modern engineering requires are good analytical and design skills as well as a genuine understanding in the relationship between technology and everyday life. Computer Engineers, Information Engineers, Electronic engineers, Automation Engineers and System Engineers no longer require to use chisels and hammers, to put on gloves and lab coats, to handle machines etc.; rather they spend most of their time meeting people and working in front of computers. They have to be multidisciplinary and actively integrated with non-technical people. Female engineers, with natural eloquence, serve well as the bridge between engineers and other professionals. The world of engineering will become more challenging and diversified as more female engage in the field. A balanced in students¡¦ gender mix will also foster a more diverse and innovative college life and research atmosphere.
The E.X.IT.E camp is a part of the Women Engineers In Societies (WEISS) project, which aims to increase local female students¡¦ interests in engineering. The project also plans to award scholarships to outstanding female students, and helps establish the WEISS Club which will be the first official organization for female students and professionals in engineering. The organization will establish a close communication link between female students and graduates of CUHK in engineering. This will enrich the knowledge of the former before they start their career. 

 During the ceremony, girls sharing the experience in building robots with Professor KF Wong.
 In one of the spinoff of CUHK, girls are learning about the technology of motion sensing game.
 In the laboratory of CUHK, girls are experiencing the magic of 3D world.
 
 
 Professor Helen Meng presenting prizes to EXITE Camp participants.
 

 Attachment: Speech of Professor Kam-Fai Wong (in Chinese) 


 
