[title]CUHK Appoints Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellors and University Officers[/title]

[date]21 September 2004[/date]


 CUHK Appoints Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellors and University Officers
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong announced the appointment of 
 Professor Billy Kee-long So, Professor in the Department of History, 
 and Professor Michael King-man Hui, Professor of Marketing, as Associate 
 Pro-Vice-Chancellors on a concurrent basis with effect from 1st October 
 2004.
Professor 
 Billy So was also appointed Registrar of the University on a concurrent 
 basis with effect from 13th December 2004, succeeding Professor Richard 
 M.W. Ho upon Professor Ho's retirement on 12th December 2004.
Professor 
 Ho Puay-peng, Professor in the Department of Architecture will succeed 
 Professor Jack C.Y. Cheng, as the University Dean of Students on a 
 concurrent basis with effect from 1st February 2005. And Professor 
 Wong Wing-shing, Professor of Information Engineering, will succeed 
 Professor Kenneth Young as Dean of the Graduate School on a concurrent 
 basis with effect from 1st September 2005. Henceforth, Professor Jack 
 C.Y. Cheng and Professor Kenneth Young will continue to serve as Pro-Vice-Chancellors 
 of the University.
Professor 
 Billy So received his bachelor and master degrees from The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong and obtained his Ph.D. from the Australian 
 National University in 1983. He joined the Department of History in 
 1993 and has been Chairman of the Department since 1999. Professor 
 So specializes in Chinese Legal History, Comparative Legal Cultures, 
 Chinese Socioeconomic History, Comparative Business History, Ethnicity 
 in Chinese History and Chinese Historical Geography. He has served 
 on many academic and administrative committees at CUHK as well as 
 many other education, research and cultural organizations.
Professor 
 Michael Hui graduated from The Chinese University of Hong Kong with 
 a Bachelor of Business Administration Degree in 1980. He obtained 
 his CAAE (Certificat Approfondu d'Administration des Entreprises) 
 from the University of Aix-Marseille, Aix-en-Provence in France in 
 1983 and Ph.D. from London Business School in 1988. Professor Hui 
 joined the Department of Marketing of the University in 1996 and was 
 Associate Dean and BBA Programme Director of the Faculty of Business 
 Administration from 1999 to 2002. Professor Hui is currently Director 
 of Research Programmes of the Faculty, and will be promoted to Professor 
 of Marketing on 1st October 2004. An expert in services marketing, 
 consumer behaviour and China marketing, Professor Hui is serving on 
 the editorial boards of many academic journals. He has also rendered 
 consultancy services to the business sector and the Government and 
 has participated actively on many important committees of the University. 
 He has won many honours and awards for his research and teaching, 
 including the Outstanding Teaching Award, Faculty of Business Administration 
 of the University in 2003.
Professor 
 Ho Puay-peng received his M.A. in Architecture and Diploma in Architecture 
 from the University of Edinburgh, U.K in 1983 and 1984 respectively. 
 He was awarded Ph.D. in Art and Architectural History at the School 
 of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, in 1992. He 
 joined the Department of Architecture in 1992 and is currently Professor 
 in the Department and Director of the Chinese Architecture and Heritage 
 Unit. In addition to serving the local, international and professional 
 communities, Professor Ho has been actively serving on various committees 
 of the University and was Dean of Students of New Asia College from 
 September 2000 to August 2004. Professor Ho holds professional membership 
 in many prestigious organizations including the Royal Institute of 
 British Architects (1986) and the Society of Architectural Historians, 
 USA (1993).
Professor 
 Wong Wing Shing received his M.S., and Ph.D. from Harvard University 
 in 1978 and 1980 respectively. He joined The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong in 1992 and was Chairman of the Department of Information 
 Engineering from August 1995 to July 2003. He was on secondment to 
 the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region as Science 
 Advisor at the Innovation and Technology Commission from 2003 to 2004. 
 Professor Wong's research interest covers wireless systems, Internet 
 applications, communication constrained control systems and nonlinear 
 filtering theory. He has been an IEEE Fellow since 2002 and Hong Kong 
 Institution of Engineers Fellow since 1996. 
 
 

 
