[title]CUHK to present 40th Anniversary Concert on 11 January[/title]

[date]30 December 2003[/date]


 CUHK to present 40th Anniversary Concert on 11 January 
 
The Music Department of The Chinese University of Hong Kong will present 
 the CUHK 40th Anniversary Concert "The Sound of Harmony, the Voices 
 of Joy" on Sunday, 11 January 2004 at 8 pm at the concert hall of the 
 Hong Kong Cultural Centre in Tsim Sha Tsui. Chung Chi Choir, CUHK Student 
 Chorus, the Hong Kong Oratorio Society, the Hong Kong Sinfonietta and 
 various outstanding soloists will join hands to celebrate CUHK's 40th 
 anniversary at the evening.
The 
 concert will commence with the world premiere of "Menuha" Overture 
 by Professor Daniel Law, a CUHK music alumnus who later received his 
 doctoral degree from Northwestern University. Professor Law is an active 
 composer, teacher and researcher. He is currently the Dean of the Faculty 
 of Arts at CUHK.
Pianist 
 Mary Wu will be featured in Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme of 
 Paganini. Dr. Mary Wu first performed in the public at the age of 
 three. Since then she had won numerous awards and had performed in many 
 parts of the world. Dr. Wu was recently awarded the honour as one of 
 the Outstanding Young Persons in Hong Kong. She has been the Artist-in-residence 
 of CUHK since 1997. 
The 
 evening's climax will be the performance of "Ode to Joy" of Beethoven's 
 Ninth Symphony. It will be performed by over 200 singers from Chung 
 Chi Choir, CUHK Student Chorus and the Hong Kong Oratorio Society. The 
 alto solo, Melody Sze and the tenor solo, Tam Yu Leung are both the 
 younger generation of the CUHK music graduates while soprano Katusha 
 Tsui-Fraser and the bass Derek Anthony are both vocal instructors of 
 the Music Department.
Conductors 
 Professor Chan Wing-wah and Ms. Carmen Koon Mee-yu are also alumni of 
 the Music Department. Professor Chan was the awardee of the 1991 Composer 
 of the Year Award and the 1992 Ten Outstanding Young Persons' Award. 
 He began conducting when he was in college. He has brought many western 
 and local music pieces to premiere in Hong Kong. He is now Professor 
 of Music and Chairman of both Departments of Music and Modern Languages 
 and Intercultural Studies in addition to being Associate Dean of Arts 
 Faculty and the music director of the Hong Kong Oratorio Society. Ms. 
 Koon studied conducting in the Berlin Music Conservatory upon graduation 
 and has worked with many orchestras around the world. She is one of 
 the few outstanding local female conductors in Hong Kong. 
Founded 
 by a group of local musicians, the Hong Kong Sinfonietta is a well-established 
 local orchestra and has enjoyed a long and close relationship with CUHK. 
 Many of its players and administrative staff are alumni or instructors 
 of the Music Department of CUHK.
Tickets 
 are now for sale at $180, $150, $100 at all URBTIX outlets. Half-price 
 discount will be offered to full-time students and senior citizens. 
 For enquiries, please call 2609-6716. Please refer to the webpage for 
 programme details: www.cuhk.edu.hk/ipro/cu40concert.php. 
 
 

 
