[title]Supply Chain Management is Key to Corporate Survival[/title]

[date]28 May 2004[/date]


 Supply Chain Management is Key to Corporate Survival: Say Experts 
 from Europe, US and Hong Kong 
 
More than 100 representatives from the academia, Government officials 
 and senior executives from numerous industry sectors attended the "Moving 
 Towards Virtual Supply Chain Management" seminar organized by The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong on Friday, May 28, 2004 at the InterContinental 
 Hotel.
"Global 
 competition has reached every corner of the world," warned Professor 
 Jeff Yeung, Director of the Chinese University's Graduate Diploma in 
 Logistics and Supply Chain Management, "To survive in this highly demanding 
 and competitive marketplace, manufacturers must improve inventory turnovers 
 and flexibility to meet customer requirements." This dual goal, he said, 
 could be met by a new approach called "Multiple Freeze Fences" in managing 
 manufacturing resources planning systems.
Dr. 
 Angel Ortiz, Professor of the Polytechnic University of Valencia, Spain, 
 agreed that collaborations in the supply chain have become crucial to 
 companies in order to gain superior performance and create sustainable 
 advantages.
"This 
 collaboration among enterprises must be supported by both business decisions 
 and technological infrastructure," he said. Data, application and process 
 integration are "key success factors" as demonstrated in Ford Motors 
 (Spain)'s experience. He leads a team of researchers who have helped 
 Ford Motor company in Spain to design and implement an integrated information 
 system for production planning and sequencing.
Professor 
 Alberto Felice De Toni, Professor of Operations Management and Vice 
 Dean, Faculty of Engineering of the University of Udine (Italy) spoke 
 on the conceptual framework and the successful experience of Aprilia 
 Pilot in the V-CHAIN Project in Europe. He shared the successful experience 
 of an Italian Motor Cycle manufacturer, Aprilia in developing and implementing 
 a supplier visibility system. "Through the implementation of a web-based 
 supplier visibility system, Aprilia was able to improve the quality 
 and flexibility of its master production schedule. The result was considerable 
 cost savings and enhanced customer service levels.
Dr. 
 Jerry Banks, Professor Emeritus of the Georgia Institute of Technology 
 (U.S.), who helped to develop the Asia Logistic Institute in Singapore, 
 shared his insight on the creativity in logistics. "The logistic functions 
 are playing more and more important roles in global competition today. 
 In order to grain competitive advantage through logistic excellence, 
 companies need to be creative in solving logistic problems."
On hand 
 to share their experience were Mr. Chang Ka Mun, Director of global 
 trader and leading SCM user Li and Fung Development (China) Ltd.; Mr. 
 Tommy Lui, General Manager of IDS Logistics International, the logistics 
 services subsidiary of Li and Fung Group and Mr. Spencer Huang, Senior 
 Supply Chain Manager of Astec Power, which is a Division of international 
 integration network power solutions provider Emerson Network Power.
"We 
 are very fortunate to have such distinguished group of both academic 
 and industrial expert to share insights and experience on supply chain 
 management. I am truly delighted to see such a great turnout of academic 
 and industry representatives in this seminar," said Professor Zhao Xiande 
 of CUHK's Department of Decision Sciences and Managerial Economics, 
 Director of the SCM center and organizer of the Seminar. "I am particularly 
 impressed by the diversity of the industry sectors - government, trading, 
 resource, garments, electronics, telecommunications, transportation 
 and courier. SCM is finally catching on."
Organized 
 by the newly-established Center for Supply Chain Management of the Chinese 
 University (CUHK)'s Faculty of Business Administration, this Seminar 
 was sponsored by the European Commission and Li and Fung Group and also 
 supported by the Hong Kong Logistics Association and the Chinese Executive 
 Club.
Professor 
 Zhao and his colleagues foresaw the need for SCM for Hong Kong's industries. 
 They are close to completing a 21-month "Asia V-Chain" (Advanced Strategies 
 and Tools for Virtual SCM in Asian Environment) project, funded by the 
 European Commission, in collaboration with the University of Udine in 
 Italy and the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain). Based on the 
 success stories in Europe - notably Ford Motor Co. Ltd. and Aprilia 
 - this project is expected to come up with an advanced supply chain 
 solution model specifically designed for Asia. "We have conducted surveys 
 and case studies of companies in the Greater Pear River Delta (PRD). 
 Through these studies, we understand the current status of supply chain 
 management in the PRD. We are in the process of proposing migration 
 path for companies to move toward virtual supply chain management and 
 developing guidelines for enhancing supply chain performance.
In parallel 
 with this, CUHK is establishing a research centre in collaboration with 
 faculty members from the South China University of Technology (SCUT) 
 and Tsing Hua University to conduct state-of-the-art research in SCM 
 and to promote the application of SCM in the Greater PRD region through 
 research, consulting and training activities.
To ensure 
 that middle to senior executives in logistics and IT industries have 
 access to specialized business training, CUHK and SCUT will launch, 
 a new, two-year part-time Executive Master of Science in Logistics and 
 Information Technology Management Programme in 2005.
"SCM 
 is crucial to the competitiveness of Hong Kong's industries and its 
 continued viability as a key player in the Greater PRD," stressed Professor 
 T.S. Lee, Dean of CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration "As a leading 
 business school, we will put whatever resources we have available to 
 help."
Today's 
 Seminar was only the forerunner: it will be followed by an intensive, 
 two-day "Summit" to be held in Guangzhou on June 1-2, 2004.
More 
 detailed information on the Hong Kong Seminar and the Guangzhou "Summit" 
 can be found at: http://www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk/dse/cbex/index.htm. 
 
From 
 left to right:
 Professor LEE Tien-sheng, Dean, Faculty of Business Administration
 Mr. Tommy LUI, General Manager of IDS Logistics International, the logistics 
 services subsidiary of Li and Fung Group 
 Professor ZHAO Xiande, Dept. of Decision Sciences and Managerial Economics, 
 Director of the Center for Supply Chain Management and organizer of 
 the Seminar 
 
 

 
