[title]CUHK recommends a new combination treatment for Chinese Chronic Hepatitis B patients[/title]

[date]22 February 2005[/date]


 The Chinese University recommends a new combination treatment
 for Chinese Chronic Hepatitis B patients
 
Chronic hepatitis B virus infection is the commonest cause of liver 
 cirrhosis and liver cancer in Hong Kong. Patients with hepatitis B 
 e antigens may have very active liver disease, high viral load and 
 a higher risk of liver-related complications. Doctors often treat 
 these patients with powerful antiviral drugs but drug resistant viral 
 mutants may emerge with prolonged treatment. To help prevent resistance 
 and improve outcomes, doctors sometimes combine interferon with antiviral 
 drugs. Few studies have assessed the benefits and harms of these combination 
 therapies for chronic hepatitis B in Asian patients. The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong conducted a study at the Prince of Wales Hospital to 
 see whether combining pegylated interferon-£\2b with lamivudine reduces 
 the amount of hepatitis B virus in the body and liver inflammation 
 more than lamivudine alone from 2000 to 2003.
One 
 hundred Chinese adults with chronic hepatitis B who had positive hepatitis 
 B e antigen and elevated liver enzymes (an alanine transaminase level 
 1.3 to 5 times the upper limit of normal) were recruited. They were 
 randomly assigned to receive pegylated interferon-£\2b for 32 weeks 
 plus lamivudine for 52 weeks or lamivudine alone for 52 weeks. In 
 the first group, pegylated interferon was started 8 weeks before the 
 lamivudine was started.
At 
 the end of treatment, patients receiving combination therapy more 
 often had virologic response, i.e. HBeAg seroconversion and HBV DNA 
 suppression (60% vs. 28%); had more than 10 times reduction of HBV 
 DNA; and less often had lamivudine-resistant mutants (21% vs. 40%) 
 as compared to those on lamivudine alone. The rate of sustained virologic 
 response 6 months after stopping treatment was still higher (36%) 
 for the combination treatment group than the lamivudine alone group 
 (14%). Adverse effects, such as transient influenza-like symptoms 
 and local erythematous reactions, were more common with combination 
 therapy. The amount of HBV DNA in the liver at the end of treatment 
 was measured in 47 patients (27 patients in combination group and 
 20 patients in lamivudine group). The study confirmed that sustained 
 virological response is accompanied by clearance of virus from the 
 liver. The Chinese University of Hong Kong therefore recommends that 
 combining pegylated interferon with lamivudine may be considered as 
 the first line treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Full 
 article can be seen in "A Randomized, Controlled Trial of Combination 
 Therapy for Chronic Hepatitis B: Comparing Pegylated Interferon-£\2b 
 and Lamivudine with Lamivudine Alone" by HLY Chan, NWY Leung, AY Hui, 
 VWS Wong, CT Liew, AML Chim, FKL. Chan, LCT Hung, YT Lee, JSL Tam, 
 CWK Lam, and JJY Sung. Annals of Internal Medicine 2005 Feb 15;142(4):240-50. 
 



 
