[title]CUHK 5th Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony[/title]

[date]14 May 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 Fifth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony
 The Fifth Honorary Fellowship Conferment Ceremony of The Chinese University of Hong Kong will take place on Monday, 15 May 2006 on campus. Eight distinguished persons who are closely associated with CUHK will be conferred Honorary Fellowship in recognition of their significant contributions to the University and the community. They are:
 
 
 
 Dr CHEN Fong Ching 
 Dr. Chen Fong Ching is a distinguished scholar and university administrator who has rendered four decades of outstanding service to The Chinese University. He is currently Honorary Senior Research Fellow of the Institute of Chinese Studies, Senior College Tutor of United College, and Honorary Professor of the Department of Physics. Dr. Chen was awarded Zhu Kezhen History of Science Visiting Professorship by the Institute of History of Natural Science of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2004. 
Dr. Chen obtained his Bachelor of Arts in Physics from Harvard University and PhD in Physics from Brandeis University. He joined the Department of Physics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong as Lecturer in 1966 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 1977. He was made University Secretary in 1980 and Director of the Institute of Chinese Studies in 1986. Upon his retirement in July 2002, Dr. Chen has continued to offer his service to CUHK as Honorary Senior Research Fellow. 
As Secretary of the University for six years, Dr. Chen helped to reform the administrative system, and contributed to the University in academic policies and institutional management. To improve the quality of student intake, he took a leading part in the formulation and implementation of the Provisional Acceptance Scheme, which has had far-reaching impact on the development of the University. 
A conscientious scholar, Dr. Chen has worked on both science and Chinese studies. During his directorship of the Institute of Chinese Studies from 1986 to 2002, he worked hard to live up to the motto to combine tradition with modernity and to bring together China and the West. He established the Research Centre for Contemporary Chinese Culture, founded the journal Twenty-First Century in collaboration with Professors Jin Guantao and Liu Qingfeng, serving as the convenor of the Editorial Board and taking part in its editorial work. Starting in 1988, Dr. Chen collaborated with Professor Lau Din Cheuk, Professor Jao Tsung I and other young colleagues in building a computerized database of Chinese ancient texts, which now contains some 60 million words of over 100 texts spanning over 3,000 years, and is available for scholars on the web. 
In 2004 Dr. Chen donated a statue of Dr. Choh-Ming Li to the University in commemoration of his role as the Founding Vice-Chancellor of the University, and also as the Founding Director of the Institute of Chinese Studies. 
  
 
 
 
 Mr Paul Ming Fun CHENG 
An eminent business leader in Hong Kong, Mr. Paul Ming Fun Cheng is Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Link Management Limited, and non-executive director of several listed companies in Hong Kong.
Mr. Paul Cheng obtained his MBA from the Wharton Graduate Business School, University of Pennsylvania, and his Bachelor of Arts from Lake Forest College in Illinois. Mr. Cheng¡¦s extensive business and political experience include chairmanship of Inchacape Pacific and N. M. Rothschild and Sons (Hong Kong) Ltd., as well as membership of the Legislative Council and the Provisional Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Government.
Mr. Paul Cheng is dedicated to community service and has served in numerous statutory bodies. He is the only businessman who has chaired both the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. He has been Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club, Member of the Preparatory Committee, Preliminary Working Committee for the Preparatory Committee, and Selection Committee for the First Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; and a Hong Kong Affairs Advisor. He is a Founding Member of the Court of The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and an Adjunct Professor of its School of Business and Management.
Over the years, Mr. Paul Cheng has contributed significantly to the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. He has been a Member of the University Council since 1992; he has also served as a Member of the Executive Committee of the Council, a Member of the Task Force on the Development and Financing of the University in the Next Decade and Beyond, Chairman of the Career Development Board, and a Member of the Search Committee for the Appointment of the New Vice-Chancellor in 2002. In 2003, Mr. Cheng chaired the 40th Anniversary Celebration Organizing Committee and the 40th Anniversary Fund Raising Committee of the Chinese University. Under his capable leadership, the University¡¦s achievements over the past 40 years were put on full display in all their grandeur, for the benefit of the community.
In recognition of his valuable contribution, Mr. Paul Cheng was knighted by the King of Belgium in 1991, appointed an honorary citizen of Nanjing in 1994, made an non-official Justice of the Peace in 1997, and conferred an Honorary Fellowship by The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 2004.
  
 
  
Mr Ian Chun Wan FOK 
 A luminous business leader in Hong Kong, Mr. Ian Chun Wan Fok is the Managing Director of Henry Y T Fok Group and Yau Wing Co. Ltd, the Chairman of The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the Chairman of the Standing Committee of Hong Kong Pei Hua Education Foundation and a Member of Standing Committee of the 9 th Guangdong Provincial Committee of the Chinese People¡¦s Political Consultative Conference.
 Mr. Ian Fok obtained his Bachelor of Science and MBA from the University of British Columbia in Canada. He has been in the forefront of welfare promotion for the business sector. Besides serving as the Chairman of The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, he is also the Vice Chairman of China Overseas Friendship Association, a Member of the Standing Committee of All China Federation of Industry and Commerce, and the Vice Chairman of Guangdong Overseas Friendship Association. Mr. Fok is highly supportive of business and trade development in Hong Kong and the region. He has served as a Council Member of the Hong Kong Trade and Development Council, a Member of the Council and Executive Committee of The Hong Kong Management Association, and a Member of the Board of Directors of Boao Forum for Asia.
Mr Ian Fok is dedicated to service for the community and participates in many important committees of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. He is a Member of the Commission on Poverty, a Member of the Partnership Fund for the Disadvantaged, a Member of the Elite Sports Committee, a Member of the Greater Pearl River Delta Business Council, and a Member of the Award Council of the Hong Kong Award for Young People. He has also been an ardent supporter of educational enterprises in Hong Kong, having served as a Member of the Council and Court of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and a Member of the Council of The Open University of Hong Kong. Besides Mr. Fok is an active promoter of Chinese martial arts to the world; he has served as the President of the Hong Kong Wushu Union, the Vice Chairman of Wushu Federation of Asia, and a Member of the Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Marketing and Development Committee of the International Wushu Federation.
As Director of Fok Ying Tung Foundation Ltd, Mr. Fok has made magnanimous donations through the Foundation to support the development of science, culture, education, medicine, sports, tourism, transport, infrastructure, in mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, and the world over. In 2005, the Foundation made a munificent donation of $40 million to The Chinese University of Hong Kong to support the construction of an academic and research building for the Satellite Remote Sensing Receiving Station. This act of generosity has contributed significantly to the furtherance of scientific research at the University. From 1996 to 2005, Mr. Fok also served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the University¡¦s United College. 
In recognition of Mr. Ian¡¦s Fok illustrious contributions to the community, the HKSAR Government made him an unofficial Justice of the Peace in 2003, and awarded him the Silver Bauhinia Star in 2005. Mr. Fok is also an Honorary University Fellow of The Open University of Hong Kong, and an Honorary citizen of Panyu and Guangzhou.
  
 
 
 
Mr HO Man Sum 
 Mr. Ho Man Sum, a renowned educationalist and publisher, is currently the Executive Director of Mill and Dales Press Limited, The Success Publisher and Chi Wai Publishing Company Limited and Director of the Education Foundation of the Federation of the Alumni Associations of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Limited and the Dominic Savio Education Organization Limited. Mr. Ho is also an outstanding alumnus of United College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, having served on the College Board of Trustees for many years, and a staunch supporter of his alma mater.
Mr. Ho graduated from the Economics Department of United College in 1957. As a member of the College¡¦s first graduating class, he was instrumental in forming the Alumni Association of the College, of which he is now Vice President. In 1993, Mr. Ho became a member of the College Board of Trustees; he was later appointed a member of the College¡¦s Endowment Fund Committee; and he has served as the convenor of the Committee¡¦s fundraising sub-committee since 2002. Mr. Ho has been generous with his support of the College¡¦s students, as evidenced by his establishment of various scholarships and bursaries, including the Ho Man Sum Distinguished College Service Award, Ho Man Sum Prize, Lo Wong Kit Wah Memorial Prize, the Ho Man Sum Outstanding GEU 0411 Project Award and the Ho Man Sum Ming De Xin Min Alumni Scholarship. Mr. Ho is also a member of the Coordinating Committee of the College¡¦s Mentorship Programme. 
Mr. Ho played a crucial role in the formation of the Federation of Alumni Associations of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK FAA). Since the Federation¡¦s inception in 1978, he has served for 19 consecutive terms as the principal representative of the Alumni Association of United College at the Federation. Currently, he is a representative of the Representative Council and a member of the Federation¡¦s Student Activity Fund. 
In 1982 when the Education Foundation of the Federation of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Alumni Association Limited (later renamed The Education Foundation of the Federation of the Alumni Associations of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Limited) was established, Mr. Ho served on its Board of Directors, and was actively involved in the founding of CUHK FAA schools and kindergartens, including Thomas Cheung School, Thomas Cheung Secondary School, Thomas Cheung Kindergarten, Chan Chun Ha Secondary School, and Chan Chun Ha Kindergarten. He also served as Manager of Chan Chun Ha Secondary School, Thomas Cheung School and Thomas Cheung Kindergarten, as well as Emeritus Manager of Thomas Cheung Secondary School and Chan Chun Ha Kindergarten. He joined the Standing Committee of the CUHK Convocation upon its founding in 1993 and has since been actively involved in its Education Sub-Committee and Fund-Raising Sub-Committee. 
Through his capacity as the chief editor of the quarterly magazine United College Alumni, Mr. Ho strengthened ties among alumni in the United States and Canada. He played a pivotal role in promoting Xiaobiandan (p«ó¾á), a campaign launched by the University¡¦s alumni to further the educational opportunities of children in the rural areas of Mainland China. In 2000 and 2006, he published two books, Our New York Experience ¡X Voices from the CUHK Alumni and The CUHK Alumni in San Francisco Bay Area, and donated all the proceeds to Xiaobiandan (p«ó¾á).

 
 
 
Dr HO Tzu-leung 
 A distinguished urologist by profession, Dr. Ho Tzu-leung is a Director of the S. H. Ho Foundation Limited and a Director of the Board of the Bethlehem Management Limited. The Chinese University of Hong Kong has enjoyed the support of Dr. Ho and his family for decades. 
 Dr Ho obtained his medical doctorate (MD) from the Chicago Medical School in 1966, became a member of the College of Physicians and Surgeons in Manitoba in 1968. He did his post doctoral Urological Surgery training at the Stanford University Medical School from 1968 to 1972. He received his Board Certificate from the American Board of Urology, USA , in 1976. Subsequently he was awarded a Fellowship by the American College of Surgeons in 1977. He has been for many years a medical practitioner in the United States, Hong Kong and Singapore . 
 Dr. Ho and his family are very committed to community service, in particular, to local tertiary education and medical services. Dr. Ho is a Director of the S. H. Ho Foundation Limited and a Trustee of the Ho Sin Hang Education Endowment Fund of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. Through the S.H. Ho Foundation Limited, of which Dr Ho is a Director, the University has benefited by way of the Ho Sin-Hang Engineering Building, student hostels at the three founding Colleges, a non-residential hall for students at New Asia College, as well as the building of the Madam S.H. Ho Hostel for Medical Students and its extension at the Prince of Wales Hospital. The Foundation also donated funds towards the establishment of the C.N. Yang Visiting Professorship Fund. More recently, the Foundation has supported the setting up of two innovative and superbly-equipped research centres: the S.H. Ho Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke Centre and the S.H. Ho Centre for Geriatrics and Gerontology. 
Through these highly strategic investments in the University¡¦s medical research capacity, the Foundation is ultimately making important contributions to the delivery of patient care in Hong Kong and well beyond. 
 
 
 
Mr HUI Hon Chung, Stanley 
 Mr. Hui Hon Chung, Stanley is currently Director and Chief Executive Officer of Dragonair. He is an outstanding leader in the local aviation business, a distinguished alumnus of Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and a staunch supporter of his alma mater.
After obtaining his Bachelor of Science in Biology from CUHK in 1974, Mr. Hui joined the Hong Kong Government as an Executive Officer. A year later, he became a Management Trainee at Cathay Pacific Airways and went on to serve the aviation industry for over 30 years. During his long and dedicated service, he was also stationed in the airline¡¦s overseas offices in Singapore, Taiwan and Malaysia. In 1986, he was appointed Manager for International Affairs, handling traffic rights issues and China affairs; he also represented the airline in negotiations with the Hong Kong Government and various other countries with regard to Air Service Agreements. In 1990, Mr. Hui was seconded to Dragonair as General Manager, Planning and International Affairs. Two years later, he was appointed the Chief Representative in Beijing of the Swire Group. In 1994, Mr. Hui became the Chief Operating Officer of AHK Air Hong Kong, the Hong Kong-based all-cargo airline. Since 1997, he has been the Chief Executive Officer of Dragonair.
Mr. Hui is not only a key player in the aviation industry, he is also active in community service. He has been a member of the Court of Lingnan University, Council Member of the Vocational Training Council, and a member of the Board of Directors, Hong Kong Education City. He has been a member of the General Committee of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of its China Committee, being involved primarily in the economic affairs of Mainland China, and Vice-Chairman of the Hong Kong ¡Ð Taipei Business Cooperation Committee of the same body. In the aviation sector, Mr. Hui is an active member of the Aviation Development Advisory Committee of the HKSAR Government, and the Vetting Committee of the Professional Services Development Assistance Scheme. He is a visiting Professor of CAAC¡¦s Aviation School. Mr. Hui also holds membership of the Immigration Department User¡¦s Committee and the P-logistics Project Group of the Hong Kong Logistics Development Council.
 Mr Hui is a distinguished alumnus who has made generous contributions to the University and Chung Chi College. He was formerly Chairman of the Chung Chi College Alumni Association and a Member of the Board of Trustees of Chung Chi College. Currently, he is a Member of the Advisory Committee on Hotel and Tourism Management and an Adjunct Professor of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management. Mr. Hui has been an active participant of the mentorship programme of Chung Chi College since 1999 and, as such, has given his valuable advice and guidance to students of the College. He has also supported students of the College through his magnanimous donations to the College¡¦s Scholarships for Excellence. 
 
 
 
 
Mr LAU Sai Yung 
 A stellar certified public accountant, Mr. Lau Sai Yung is the Executive Chairman of Union Alpha CPA Limited and the Founder of Lau S Y and Co. He is an outstanding alumnus of Chung Chi College, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and a Member of the University Council. 
After graduating with a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Chung Chi College in 1971, Mr. Lau assumed various important positions in multinational corporations. In 1983, he founded Lau S Y and Co. and in 2004 Union Alpha CPA Limited. He is the Executive Director of JDB Group, the Independent non-executive Director of Road King Infrastructure Limited, Non-executive Director of Xinjiang Tianshan Wooltex Stock Co., Ltd.; he also holds directorship of a number of local and overseas companies. 
Mr Lau qualified as a certified public accountant in 1983. His numerous other professional qualifications include Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) (1976), Associate and Fellow of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) (1979 and 1984), Associate and Fellow of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA) (1980 and 2004), Associate of The Taxation Institute of Hong Kong (1982), Associate of the Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries (HKICS) (1994), Member of The Society of Chinese Accountants and Auditors (2001), and Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) (2005). 
Mr. Lau has been very supportive of the development of Chung Chi College , his alma mater; he has continuously donated to the Chung Chi Alumni Scholarship for Excellence and has rendered steadfast support to the College Mentorship Programme. 
He was elected President of the Alumni Association of Chung Chi College from 1983 to 1985, during which he also served on the Board of Trustees of the College. From 1984 to 1985, he was President of the CUHK Federation of Alumni Associations (CUHK FAA). Since the founding of the CUHK Convocation in 1993, Mr. Lau was elected a member of the Standing Committee, a position which he still holds after all these years. At present, he is convenor of the Alum eObserver Network sub-committee. Mr. Lau has been a member of the CUHK Council ever since his election to the post by the Convocation in 1994. 
Mr. Lau is strongly committed to alumni services. He was Director and Honorary Treasurer of The Education Foundation of the Federation of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Alumni Association Limited (later renamed The Education Foundation of the Federation of the Alumni Associations of The Chinese University of Hong Kong Limited); and he has played a significant role in the operation of the schools and kindergarten founded by the CUHK FAA. Currently, he is Supervisor and Chairman of School Management Committee of Chan Chun Ha Secondary School, Manager of Thomas Cheung Secondary School and Thomas Cheung School, as well as Emeritus Manager of Thomas Cheung Kindergarten. 
In 1995, Mr. Lau launched and directed the Xiaobiandan Operation (p«ó¾áÀy¾Ç¦æ°Ê), a major service programme of CUHK alumni aimed at raising funds are raised for the education and overall benefit of rural children on mainland China. Since its inception, over HK$14 million has been raised to fund the renovation of 30 school campuses on the mainland and support children¡¦s schooling of 56 schools through the creation of scholarships and bursaries. 
 
 
 
 
Mr Peter Ting Chang LEE 
 Chairman of Hysan Development Company Limited, Mr. Peter Ting Chang Lee is an outstanding entrepreneur of great renown. 
Mr. Lee obtained his Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering at the University of Manchester in the United Kingdom; he also qualified as a solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales. In 1988, Mr. Lee joined the Board of Directors of Hysan Development Company Limited, becoming Managing Director in 1999 and Chairman in 2001. Under his excellent leadership, Hysan Development Company grew from strength to strength. The Company has also received various awards for good corporate governance over the past few years.
A valuable contributor to Hong Kong¡¦s economic development, Mr. Lee is currently a Non-Executive Director of a number of companies, including Lee Hysan Estate Company, Cathay Pacific Airways, South China Morning Post, Hang Seng Bank, and Maersk (China). Mr. Lee is the Vice-President of the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong, a Council Member of the Employees¡¦ Federation of Hong Kong, Advisory Board member of The Salvation Army Hong Kong and Macau Command, and Chairman of its Administration Committee. He has previously served as part-time member twice of the Hong Kong Government¡¦s Central Policy Unit both before and after 1997. Mr. Lee has been a staunch promoter of education: he has been a member of the Education Commission in Hong Kong and a Founding Council member and Treasurer of the Hong Kong Institute of Education, and is currently International Council member of INSEAD. 
The Chinese University has, since its inception, benefited from the staunch munificence of the Lee Family. As a Governor of the Lee Hysan Foundation, Mr. Peter Lee has proven his magnanimity to the University time and again through sustained support for scholarships, academic conferences and seminars, professorships, acquisition funds, promotion of Chinese studies, archaeology and art. The Foundation has made a very generous donation for the construction of the Lee Hysan Concert Hall, an innovative facility celebrated for its excellent acoustics. The Hall provides an ideal venue for the performances of the University¡¦s Music Department. Recently, the Foundation offered handsome financial support to the construction of a new annex to the Art Museum for the display of archaeological finds. 
An illustrious entrepreneur and a dedicated philanthropist, Mr. Peter Lee was made an unofficial Justice of the Peace in 1996. 
 


 
