[title]CUHK¡¦s Law Academic Advisory Committee to Celebrate the Dedication of the School of Law


 

 

 [/title]

[date]7 November 2006[/date]


CUHK's Law Academic Advisory Committee to 
 Celebrate the Dedication of the School of Law 
 
 The School of Law of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is glad to welcome its Law Academic Advisory Committee (LAAC) to Hong Kong to celebrate its dedication on 9 November. LAAC, established in October 2005, is formed by world-class legal dignitaries from the Mainland China, Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong.
Sir David Williams, Q.C, Emeritus Rouse Professor of English Law and Vice Chancellor Emeritus of The University of Cambridge, as the Chairman of LAAC has led the Committee in providing the much needed expert advice and guidance on the development of the School of Law.
Members of LAAC include Professor Wu Zhipan, Executive VicePresident, Director of the Financial Law Institute and Professor of Law of Peking University; The Hon Justice Annabelle Bennett, Judge of Federal Court of Australia and Pro-Chancellor, The Australian National University; Professor Christopher F. Forsyth, Professor of Public Law, Faculty of Law and Director of the Centre for Public Law, University of Cambridge; Professor William P Alford, Henry L. Stimson Professor of Law, Vice Dean for the Graduate Program and International Legal Studies and Director of East Asian Legal Studies at Harvard Law School; Professor Liu Pak-wai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK; Professor Billy So, Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Registrar of CUHK; and Professor Mike McConville, Director of the School of Law, CUHK.
Except Professor William P. Alford who is unable to come to Hong Kong, members of LAAC will join The Hon. Chief Justice Andrew Li, Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal, The Hon. Wong Yan Lung, SC, Secretary for Justice, Professor Arthur K.C. Li, Secretary for Education and Manpower and other dignitaries at the Dedication Ceremony of the School of Law on 9 November.
As part of the Committee¡¦s programme this week in association with the School of Law, Professor Christopher Forsyth, Professor of Public Law and Private International Law at the University of Cambridge, yesterday delivered a public lecture on The Common Law and the Constitution in Hong Kong. The Honourable Justice Annabelle Bennett will give another public lecture on the important topic The Role of Alternative Dispute Resolution, in the School¡¦s Graduate Law Centre at the Bank of America on 8th November 2006 at 12:30pm.
Professor Mike McConville, Director of the School of Law, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, expressed great pleasure in hosting the visit of the LAAC members. He said: I am delighted that we are able to receive such a distinguished group of guests who together constitute some of the finest minds in the Common Law world. They have come not simply for ceremonial purposes but to offer assistance to the School as it charts its future path. The School has got off to a flying staff with five full degree programmes and more than 400 excellent students in its inaugural year. But there is much work to be done and many choices to be made. In Sir David Williams, Justice Annabelle Bennett, Professor Wu Zhipan and Professor Christopher Forsyth the School could not have better guides or more devoted friends. And we will be joined by Deans and Associate Deans from leading Law Schools in Mainland China who will also join in the discussions with our other distinguished guests. This visit symbolizes the global nature of law itself in today¡¦s world and of the School¡¦s commitment to contribute in innovative ways to this endeavour.
The Law Academic Advisory Committee will assist the School in reviewing its development to date and help set the agenda for the future as well as foster international academic links at the highest level. The School of Law at CUHK is indebted to members for their invaluable collaborative and individual contributions to the future of legal education in Hong Kong. 
 Attachment: Member list of the Law Academic Advisory Committee, CUHK 


Members of LAAC from the Mainland China, Australia and UK come to Hong Kong for a Committee meeting and the Dedication Ceremony of the School of Law. 
from left:
 Mr. Dennis Hie, Professional Consultant, School of Law, CUHK
 Professor Mike McConville, Director and Professor of Law, School of Law, CUHK
 Professor Christopher F. Forsyth, Professor of Public Law, Faculty of Law and Director of the Centre for Public Law, University of Cambridge
 Professor Sir David Williams, Q.C, Emeritus Rouse Professor of English Law and Vice Chancellor Emeritus of The University of Cambridge
 The Honourable Justice Annabelle Bennett, Judge, Federal Court of Australia and Pro-Chancellor, The Australian National University
 Professor Wu Zhipan, Executive Vice-President, Director of the Financial Law Institute and Professor of Law of Peking University
 Dr Anthony Neoh, SC, Chairman, Planning Committee, School of Law, CUHK


 
