[title]CUHK Business Undergraduates Won the BA Paper Competition[/title]

[date]8 March 2006[/date]


 CUHK Business Undergraduates Won the Championship 
 of the Business Administration Paper Competition 
 A four-student team from the Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong snatched the Business Administration Paper of the Year Championship on 18 February through the inspiring theme of the Paper building trust as well as the team members¡¦ unique perspectives and outstanding analytical and presentation skills. The champion team comprised three Integrated BBA undergraduates, namely Lillian Chan, Joyce Ho and Vivian Wong, and one Professional Accountancy undergraduate, Hallas Cheung. In addition, Vivian Wong won the Best Presenter Award.
It is in two consecutive years that CUHK business undergraduates won the Championship of this Business Administration Paper Competition. The competition, marked the 20th one this year, was organized by The Hong Kong Federation of Business Students (HKFBS). More than 200 teams of business students coming from eight local tertiary institutions joined the competition. Each team, acted as a consultant of a leading financial planning services corporation, was required to conduct a research on the market of financial planning services to examine the needs of the potential customers, and hence develop a mid-term business plan for the corporation to arouse the awareness of certain segment of customers based on the research result. Considering written summary reports submitted by the teams, academic advisors in each of the eight tertiary institutions selected one team to present their schools. 
The CUHK team¡¦s proposal was to adopt trust-worthy approach and care approach to build up the corporation¡¦s professional and caring image, and hence differentiate the corporation from banks, insurance companies and other companies providing financial planning services. Our team did an excellent job in the final round which included an oral presentation, a QandA session and a debating session, and eventually won the Championship.
Professor Raymond W. So, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration, was happy for the winning of the competition by our business students. He felt that the Championship was in recognition of, as emphasized by the Faculty of Business Administration, all-round trainings given to our business undergraduates. Prof. So said, Financial planning plays an important role in the management of personal finance. This competition not only enables students to be familiar with the financial planning industry, but also has profound impacts on the students¡¦ personal growth and wealth management. He added, CUHK Business Administration Faculty will continue to encourage our students to participate in business case competitions and apply theories into practices, and hence polish their organizing, analytical and presentation skills, and promote team work spirits.
 Despite devoting a lot of time and efforts to the competition, the four students did learn a lot. Said Vivian Wong, receiving The Best Presenter Award, It is a valuable and rewarding learning experience to interact with and obtain professional knowledge from the judges who are prominent business leaders.
 
From left: Joyce Ho, Vivian Wong, Hallas Cheung and Lillian Chan 
 


 
