
[title]Hong Kong Chinese has the Highest Prevalence of Colorectal Neoplasm in Southeast Asia[/title]

 




[date]18 July 2005[/date]

Hong 
 Kong Chinese has the Highest Prevalence of Colorectal Neoplasm 
 in Southeast Asia 
 
Colorectal cancer is the second commonest cancer for both men 
 and women in Hong Kong. Its incidence is rising at an alarming rate. 
 In 2002, there were 3,500 new cases of colorectal cancer and 1,500 
 patients died from this disease. One in 21 (or 4.8%) men in Hong 
 Kong will develop colorectal cancer in their lifetime. Colorectal 
 cancers develop from precursor lesions called polyps or adenomas 
 and their removal can prevent cancer. 
Screening 
 for colorectal neoplasms enables early detection of polyps or cancer 
 at an earlier stage, and reduces colorectal cancer development and 
 its associated death. Several screening methods are available. The 
 use of colonoscopy examines the entire colon with high accuracy 
 and if polyps are found, they can be safely removed. In the United 
 States and western countries, screening with the use of colonoscopy 
 is one standard practice. The feasibility of colonoscopy screening 
 in Asia is however unknown. 
The 
 Institute of Digestive Diseases of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong has previously completed the first colonoscopy screening study 
 in Asia. 505 asymptomatic Chinese subjects aged 50 years or above 
 were examined. Among them 12.5% were found to have advanced colonic 
 neoplasms including cancers and large polyps with advanced histology. 
 The prevalence of advanced colonic neoplasms in Chinese is in fact 
 comparable to that of the U.S. population. More importantly, our 
 study proved the safety and sensitivity of colonoscopy over conventional 
 screening tests like fecal occult blood test or sigmoidoscopy in 
 Chinese populations. 
In 
 view of the emergent threat from the colorectal cancer in this region, 
 the CUHK Institute of Digestive Diseases has led endoscopists from 
 14 Asian cities to form an Asia Pacific Working Group on Colorectal 
 Cancer in 2003 to work together to study the epidemiology of colorectal 
 neoplasm in Asia. In a six-month survey of more than 7,000 colonoscopies 
 performed in different Asian populations, we found that prevalence 
 of colorectal neoplasm was highest among Chinese than in other ethnic 
 groups from Southeast Asia. Among Chinese living in different regions, 
 Hong Kong Chinese has the highest risk of developing colorectal 
 neoplasm. 
Results 
 from these two studies indicate the pressing need to implement a 
 colorectal cancer screening program in Hong Kong. 

From 
 left:
 Professor Wai Keung Leung, Professor, Department of Medicine and 
 Therapeutics, CUHK
 Professor Joseph Jao Yiu Sung, Director, Institute of Digestive 
 Diseases and Chairman, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
 CUHK
 Professor James Yun Wong Lau, Director, Endoscopy Centre, Prince 
 of Wales Hospital




 
