[title]CUHK Proposes Measures to Manage Budget Cuts and Maintain Overall Competitiveness[/title]

[date]16 December 2003[/date]


 CUHK Proposes Measures to Manage Budget Cuts and
 Maintain Overall Competitiveness 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has started a one-month internal 
 consultation on a comprehensive plan to deal with its $384 million budgetary 
 shortfall for the next academic year.
The 
 University's management briefed both students and staff members on its 
 strategy to tackle a 13.9 percent cut in Government subvention for 2004-05. 
 This is on top of another accumulated 10 percent reduction from 1998 
 to 2004.
Professor 
 Ambrose King, Vice-Chancellor of the University emphasized, "The University 
 will not just manage the budgetary shortfall but will take this opportunity 
 to strengthen our competitive advantage. We will maintain our momentum 
 for advancement by raising operational efficiency and refocusing our 
 resources."
Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
 Professor Liu Pak-wai explained the measures taken to tackle the budgetary 
 cut, "All departments and units will have to contribute to a phased 
 cutback. They will, however, be given flexibility to manage the cuts 
 under the University's overall policy."
The 
 University's voluntary staff-cost-saving options under discussion include:
 - Taking no-pay leave;
 - Reappointment from full-time to non-full-time status;
 - Reduction of the University's contributions to retirement schemes 
 and contract-end gratuity; and
 - Basic salary decrease on top of the 3% + 3% civil service pay cuts.
A tuition 
 fee increase and a uniform cut across all units have been ruled out, 
 while a voluntary separation scheme would only be introduced as a last 
 resort. Should the separation scheme be introduced, ex-gratia payments 
 would be set at six months' salary with an additional 0.3 month for 
 each year of service. The payment is proposed to be capped at 30 years 
 of service.
Departments 
 and programmes might have to be restructured to enhance the University's 
 competitive advantage.
The 
 Chinese University has yet to be notified of whether there would be 
 further cutback in government grants for the 2005-08 triennium. "We 
 need the support and understanding of the students, faculty and staff 
 members, and the community at large to get through this trying period. 
 Further reduction beyond 2004-05 is bound to compromise quality of education. 
 This will be incompatible with the Chief Executive's pronounced policy 
 to invest in education," said Prof Liu. 
 

 
