[title]A Study on Chinese Problem Gamblers[/title]

[date]14 October 2004[/date]


 A Study on Chinese Problem Gamblers
 Caritas Addicted Gamblers Counselling Centre
 and
 Department of Psychology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Background
 
 1. The Caritas Addicted Gamblers Counselling Centre and Professor 
 Catherine So-kum Tang of the Department of Psychology at The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong have conducted several studies on problem 
 gamblers in Hong Kong. Results of these studies will facilitate the 
 planning and implementation of public education, prevention, and intervention 
 programs for problem gamblers.
 
 2. The present study focused on problem gamblers seeking services 
 at the Caritas Addicted Gamblers Counselling Center during the period 
 from October 2003 to September 2004.
Method
 
 3. This was a survey study based on the South Oaks Gambling Screen 
 instrument. This survey also included information on gamblers' mental 
 and physical health status as well as their gambling-related problems. 
 Among 534 clients at the Caritas Addicted Gamblers Counselling Center, 
 352 completed the survey. The response rate was 66%.
 
 4. The respondents closely resembled typical clients of the Centre. 
 Among them, 314 were men and 38 were women. The average age of the 
 respondents was 30-39 years old, more than half of them had high school 
 education, and the average amount of gambling debt was $200,000 to 
 300,000. Among the respondents, 24% had gambled for less than 10 years, 
 40% for 11-20 years, and 36% for more than 20 years.
Results
 
 5. Table 1 presented the mental and physical health status of the 
 respondents. About 70% of them experienced emotional distress, 39% 
 reported insomnia, 24% complained of somatic discomfort, 24% lost 
 motivation to work, and 15% had suicidal thoughts.
 
 6. Table 2 summarized gambling-related problems of the respondents. 
 A great majority of them (82%) had argued with their family members 
 over gambling, 50-78% had wanted to stop gambling but did not think 
 they were able to do so, 48% lost time from work or school, 30% had 
 borrowed money from loan sharks to gamble or to pay gambling debts, 
 and 17% even sold their personal or family properties to get money 
 for gambling or repayment of gambling debts.
 
 7. There was no significant relationship between types of gambling 
 activities (e.g., gambling in casinos, horse races, soccer and mahjong 
 games) and respondents' educational attainment, amount of gambling 
 debts, mental/physical health status, and gambling-related problems. 
 However, those who gambled in soccer games were the youngest (30% 
 being under 30 years old), and their gambling history was also the 
 shortest (30% gambling for less than 10 years).
Differences Among Gambler Groups
 
 8. According to the South Oaks Gambling Screen instrument (possible 
 scores ranging from 0-20), all respondents scored at or above 5. Among 
 the respondents, 17% would be classified as problem gamblers (scoring 
 5-9), 57% as pathological gamblers (scoring 10-14), and 26% as severe 
 pathological gamblers (scoring 15-20).
 
 9. In comparison with the other two gambler groups, severe pathological 
 gamblers were more likely to start gambling at a young age, to gamble 
 in casinos, to engage in multiple types of gambling activities, and 
 to accumulate the highest amount of gambling debts (Table 3). However, 
 there was no gambler group difference on gender, age at the time of 
 the survey, educational level, and years of gambling. 
10. 
 Among the gambler groups, pathological and severe pathological gamblers 
 reported greater emotional distress and insomnia, severe pathological 
 gamblers had the most somatic complaints and suicidal thoughts, and 
 pathological gamblers were the most likely to lose motivation to work 
 (Table 1).
 
 11. Among the gambler groups, severe pathological gamblers were the 
 most likely to have gambling-related problems than pathological gamblers, 
 who in turn were more likely to report gambling-related problems than 
 problem gamblers (Table 2).
Years of Gambling
 
 12. In comparison with different years of gambling, those who had 
 gambled for more than 20 years had the most somatic complaints, those 
 who had gambled for less than 20 years reported more emotional distress 
 and suicidal thoughts, those who had gambled for 10-20 years had more 
 sleeping problems, and those who had gambled for less than 10 years 
 were the most likely to lose motivation to work (Table 4).
 
 13. Table 5 showed that respondents with different duration of gambling 
 history had similar demographic characteristics and gambling-related 
 problems. 
Recommendation
 
 14. Based on the above findings, the following recommendations are 
 made:
 
 14.1 More resources should be allocated to public education and prevention 
 programs for problem gambling. These programs should be designed according 
 to characteristics of different gambling activities. For example, 
 territory-wide school-based public education programs should be launched 
 to prevent youngsters gambling in soccer games. For adults, prevention 
 programs against casino and horse race gambling should be conducted 
 in the workplace.
 
 14.2 In addition to reducing gambling behaviors, counselling services 
 to gamblers should also assist them to cope with their emotional distress, 
 self-destructive tendencies, family problems, and the sense of helplessness/uncontrollability 
 in relation to their gambling behaviors. Thus, the current services 
 to problem gamblers should also be enhanced, with increases in the 
 number of counseling staff and strengthening of their professional 
 skills in counseling gamblers.
 
 14.3 Resources should be made available to provide counseling services 
 to gamblers to reduce gambling behaviors, support services for their 
 family, and related public education programs. This is important to 
 prevent problem gamblers to worsen to pathological or severe pathological 
 gamblers.
 
 14.4 Research on personal, family, and social risk and protective 
 factors is greatly in need to provide the knowledge base for related 
 public education, prevention, and intervention programs for gamblers.
 
 14.5 Services to gamblers should also include financial and debt management. 
 
Talbe 
 1~5 
 
 
 

 
