[title]CUHK Establishes The First High-Resolution Ground Receiving Station
of Remote Sensing Satellite in Southern China[/title]

[date]24 March 2004[/date]


 CUHK Establishes The First High-Resolution Ground Receiving Station
 of Remote Sensing Satellite in Southern China
 To Promote High-Tech Research in Spatial Information 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has received a generous donation 
 from The Yuen Yuen Institute for supporting research and development 
 at the Joint Laboratory for Geo-Information Science established by CUHK 
 and the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
 
The 
 Joint Laboratory for Geo-Information Science is dedicated to promote 
 remote sensing research and will build and operate on campus a high 
 resolution Ground Receiving Station of Remote Sensing Satellite for 
 all-weather environmental monitoring, the first of its kind in Southern 
 China. This Station will capture and process satellite-sourced remote 
 sensing data and information, in particular, image-based data, on Hong 
 Kong, throughout Southern China and the neighbouring regions. This station, 
 to be completed by 2005, is supported by the Innovation and Technology 
 Fund of the HKSAR Government and the Ministry of Science and Technology 
 of PRC. The Station will form a new spatial information infrastructure 
 in Hong Kong to foster the development of new industries in remote sensing 
 data processing, software development and other value-added professional 
 services. It will also serve as a platform to enhance technology collaboration 
 with Mainland China, accelerating the growth of remote sensing industries 
 in the Greater Pearl River Delta Region.
Established 
 in 1997 and based at CUHK, the Joint Laboratory for Geo-Information 
 Science aims at promoting the advancement of geo-information science 
 and establishing a base for CUHK and the Chinese Academy of Sciences 
 for scientific cooperation, exchange and training of personnel. The 
 Joint Laboratory has formed a multidisciplinary research team with scholars 
 from the Faculties of Art, Business Administration, Education, Engineering, 
 Medicine, Science and Social Sciences. Major research projects cover 
 regional remote sensing, spatial data mining and monitoring of natural 
 disasters, simulated geographical settings, geo-information system in 
 city cluster and regional management and spatial humanities study.
In appreciation 
 of the donation by The Yuen Yuen Institute to CUHK, the research centre 
 is named "The Yuen Yuen Research Centre for Satellite Remote Sensing". 
 The Cheque Presentation Ceremony and the Naming Ceremony was held today. 
 Mr Tong Wai Ki, Chairman of The Yuen Yuen Institute and Professor Ambrose 
 Y C King, Vice Chancellor of CUHK officiated at the Ceremony. 
 

 
