[title]Second Teaching and Learning Quality Process Review[/title]

[date]10 September 2003[/date]


 Second Teaching and Learning Quality Process Review 
 
The University Grants Committee (UGC) conducted a "Second Teaching 
 and Learning Quality Process Review (TLQPR)" at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong in September 2002 and a report of the Review was given 
 to the University earlier this year.
The University is pleased 
 to note from the report that the UGC recognizes that progress has been 
 made by the University since the first round of TLQPRs , and that efforts 
 have been made to address explicitly the recommendations of the first 
 round review. The University is particularly pleased to note the UGC's 
 commendations of the following developments:
 (a) The systematic operation 
 of the course and teaching evaluation on campus, with attention being 
 paid to the results, especially in respect of personnel decisions.
 (b) The implementation 
 of the new medical curriculum, in terms of both its form and the processes 
 via which it was developed.
 (c) The establishment of 
 the Centre for Learning and Research (CLEAR).
 (d) The administration 
 and delivery of research postgraduate education.
The high quality of the 
 University's teaching and learning processes is well reflected by the 
 performance of its graduates. According to the results published in 
 2002 of a large-sample survey on the opinions of employers on the major 
 aspects of performance of Hong Kong's year 2000 graduates of UGC-funded 
 institutions, conducted by the Government's Education and Manpower Bureau 
 in 2001, CUHK graduates' performance was rated outstanding.
The University is grateful 
 to the UGC for its recommendations for the further enhancement of the 
 University's teaching and learning processes. These recommendations 
 will be followed up. The University is confident that after this TLQPR 
 exercise, its teaching and learning processes will become even more 
 mature and effective.
According to an agreement 
 with the UGC, the University is now releasing to the public both the 
 review report and the University's statement in response to the report. 
 

 
