[title]Six Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK[/title]

[date]18 October 2005[/date]


 Six Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong will confer honorary doctorates on six distinguished persons at its Sixty-second Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees to be held on Thursday, 8 December 2005, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, the promotion of the well-being of the people, peaceful and steady development of the community, and the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
The six honorary graduands and the degrees to be conferred are:
Mr Cheng Hoi-chuen, Vincent, distinguished banker and currently Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his significant contributions towards the socio-economic development of Hong Kong. An outstanding alumnus and honorary fellow of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Mr. Cheng has over the years provided loyal support to his Alma Mater. 
Professor King Yeo-chi, Ambrose, renowned sociologist who has taught at The Chinese University of Hong Kong for more than 35 years, and former Head of New Asia College and former Vice-Chancellor of the University, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding academic accomplishments in social science and important contributions towards the promotion of Chinese culture and the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Professor Li Yihyuan, famous anthropologist, is an Academician of Academia Sinica in Taiwan and Chairman of the Chiang Ching Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange. He will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding accomplishments in humanities studies as well as his valuable contributions towards the academic development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Dr Lien Chan, a statesman of eminence and Honorary Chairman of the Kuomintang, is former President of the Executive Yuan, former Vice-President in Taiwan and former Chairman of the Kuomintang. He will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his important contributions towards the peaceful development of cross-strait relations, the promotion of understanding among the Chinese people, and the advancement of higher education and Chinese culture. 
Dr Richard J. Roberts, eminent molecular biologist and Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine in 1993, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his impressive contributions to the advancement of science and higher education as well as the generous advice and support he has rendered to The Chinese University of Hong Kong in the development of its academic programmes.
Mr Wang Daohan, a most respected senior statesman, is former Mayor of Shanghai and the current President of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait. He will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, in recognition of his remarkable efforts over an extended period of time to promote the peaceful development of cross-strait relations and to enhance the well-being of the Chinese people. Mr Wang has also provided staunch support to The Chinese University of Hong Kong in its development of academic links with major universities in Shanghai and other universities on the mainland. 


 
