[title]Establishment of William Mong Eye Centre of Tsinghua and CUHK" in Beijing[/title]

[date]29 June 2006[/date]


 A Tripartite Effort to Achieve International Excellence in Ophthalmology --- 
 Establishment of William Mong Eye Centre of Tsinghua University 
 and The Chinese University of Hong Kong in Beijing 
 Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Tsinghua University and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) signed a memorandum of understanding and announced today their joint effort to set up the William Mong Eye Centre of Tsinghua University and The Chinese University of Hong Kong in Beijing. This project brings together two top-notch universities in the eastern world and the world-renowned philanthropic Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund to foster closer academic and medical collaboration between Hong Kong and Mainland China. 
Fund needed for establishing the Joint Eye Centre is around HKD 70 million. Initial funding donated by Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund will be around HKD 30 million. The Joint Eye Centre will be located in adjacent to the newly-built Affiliated Hospital of Tsinghua University. The Centre is expected to be in full operation in mid 2008. 
Officiating at the ceremony today were Dr William M. W. Mong, Chairman of Shun Hing Group, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Professor Cen Zhangzhi, Vice-President of Tsinghua University, Mr David Mong, Chairman of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Professor Yang Jiaqing, Vice-Chairman of Tsinghua University Education Foundation, Professor Zuo Huancong, President of Yu Quan Hospital of Tsinghua University, and Professor Dennis S.C. Lam, Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences of CUHK.
Dr. William M. W. Mong spoke at the ceremony, As an alumnus of Tsinghua University, I take great pride in participating in such a meaningful and innovative project to promote closer ties of academic and medical worlds between Hong Kong and Mainland China. It would greatly benefit the livelihood of eye patients in China. 
Professor Lawrence Lau lauded the generosity and commitment of Dr William Mong in promoting health and welfare of patients in China. He also expressed his deep gratitude to Dr. Mong for his staunch support to CUHK in the current Eye Centre project as well as the many projects in the past years.
Professor Cen Zhangzhi also expressed, Tsinghua University is at the forefront of research and education in China. This collaboration rides on the strengths, the expertise and the reputation of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Tsinghua University and The CUHK.
Professor Dennis S.C. Lam said, There are about 9 million blind people in China. The Centre will keep abreast of the latest development in science and technology that will bring hope and sight to the people in need in China. The Centre will become a major training and skill-transfer platform for eye doctors in China and beyond. Our vision is to achieve international excellence in ophthalmology and visual sciences.
Since its establishment in 1984, Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund has donated approximately HK$500 million towards projects benefit education, medical services, sports, arts and culture, environmental protection and community services over the years. The Fund has been an avid supporter of Tsinghua University and CUHK for educational and medical development, the projects including Dr. William M. W. Mong Institute of Medical and Biology Research of Tsinghua University, Dr. William M. W. Mong Science Building of Tsinghua University, Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering of CUHK, Dr. William M. W. Mong Glaucoma Charity Fund of CUHK. 

Signing Ceremony of Memorandum of Understanding for the Establishment of "William Mong Eye Centre of Tsinghua University and The Chinese University of Hong Kong"
Front row from left: 
 Profesoor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Mr David Mong, Chairman of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund and Professor Cen Zhangzhi, Vice-President of Tsinghua University 
Back row from left: 
 Professor Dennis S.C. Lam, Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences of CUHK, Professor Yang Jiaqing, Vice Chairman of Tsinghua University, Dr William M W Mong, Chairman of Shun Hing Group and Professor Zuo Huancong, President of Yu Quan Hospital of Tsinghua University
  

 
 
  


 
