[title]Counter Productive Work Behaviors in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]13 January 2006[/date]


 CUHK Psychology Department Releases Study on
 Counter Productive Work Behaviors in Hong Kong 
 Employees are expected by employers to be productive in their workplace. If however, instead of being productive, employees exhibit counter-productive behaviors in the workplace, the well-being of the organization and its members will be threatened. The Department of Psychology at CUHK conducted two studies on counter-productive behaviors (CPB) at the workplace in Hong Kong. The research, conducted by Professor Winton Wing-tung AU, Associate Professor, Department of Psychology, CUHK and Chair, Division of Industrial-Organizational Psychology, The Hong Kong Psychological Society and Mr. Chi-ko KWOK, graduate of the Department of Psychology, CUHK is the first published CPB study in Hong Kong.
The studies surveyed a combination of 380 full-time employees. The respondents were between 18 and 57 years of age who have an education ranging from primary school to university levels. The respondents were full-time employees from a diverse background who have been working between 0.1 and 25.5 years.
Respondents self-reported, anonymously, how frequently they have engaged in each of 37 CPB¡¦s in a three-month period. These CPB¡¦s vary in their severity -- mild CPB¡¦s include taking care of personal business during office hours, lying to colleagues; serious CPB¡¦s include gambling and drinking at the workplace, sexual harassment, blaming wrongdoings onto colleagues, forging receipts to claim reimbursement, and stealing from colleagues.
Some of the major results are:
 ¡E 8% of the respondents reported that they have always been using office hours to take care of their personal business
 ¡E 22% had often or always been lying to their colleagues
 ¡E 12% had at least once forged receipts to claim reimbursement
 ¡E 5% had at least once stolen things or money from their colleagues
 ¡E Only 11% of the respondents reported that they have not done any of these CPB¡¦s. The remaining 89% indicated that they have engaged in at least some of these behaviors.
 ¡E 51% of the respondents had never or seldom engaged in any of these behaviors. The remaining 49% had often or always engaged in some of these behaviors.
These numbers are likely to be conservative estimates as typically people under-report their CPB¡¦s. It is believed that CPB¡¦s at the workplace are more prevalent than the data have shown.
The study also examined how respondents perceived their colleagues and their supervisors¡¦ would react to their CPB¡¦s. A sizable proportion of the respondents thought that their colleagues or supervisors would not have any serious reactions. For example, 37% of the respondents thought that their supervisor would do nothing if they were absent from their posts without a legitimate cause, and 33% of the respondents thought that their supervisor would do nothing if they were tardy at work.
The data also showed that if employees expected that their supervisors would not react seriously towards their CPB¡¦s, the respondents would engage in more CPB¡¦s. For example, respondents reported 3.4 times more drinking at work if they thought their supervisors would react mildly.
Companies should not ignore the prevalence of CPB at the workplace. CPB is an alarm signaling job dissatisfaction, grievances, lack of organizational commitment, injustice, and lack of communication. In order to reduce CPB at work, it is recommended that an organization can:
 ¡E increase the chances of detecting CPB, e.g., provide anonymous reporting channels
 ¡E increase the severity of punishment
 ¡E use integrity as a personnel selection criterion
 ¡E handle mild CPB positively and constructively, e.g., encourage employees to do it legitimately
 
 
 Professor Winton Au (right) and Mr Chi-ko Kwok (left). 


 
