[title]Silver Jubilee Dinner of the Faculty of Medicine[/title]

[date]10 June 2006[/date]


 Silver Jubilee Dinner of the Faculty of Medicine
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 Year 2006 marks the Silver Jubilee of the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The highlight of the Silver Jubilee celebrations was the Silver Jubilee Dinner, held tonight at the Grand Hall of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Over 1,500 guests including government officials, social dignitaries, as well as friends, benefactors, alumni, staff and students graced their presence. The Honourable Henry Tang, GBS, JP, Financial Secretary of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government was the Guest of Honour.
 The theme of the Silver Jubilee Dinner is Knowledge for Life. The Silver Jubilee celebrates a history of teaching excellence and knowledge advancement. As students embark on a professional medical career, the knowledge they have acquired, which continues to grow through innovation and compassion, will serve both patients and the wider community as they dedicate their own lives to preserving and enriching life.
The Faculty of Medicine admitted the first cohort of medical students in 1981 with the mission of serving the community through quality education, caring practice and advancement of health science. The programmes in Nursing and Pharmacy were introduced in 1991 and 1992 respectively. In 2001, the territory first and only School of Public Health, which aims at promoting public health through research and education in disease prevention, health maintenance, and health care delivery, was opened. In the same year, a reform in the medical curriculum was introduced. The system-based integrated curriculum enhances students¡¦ clinical exposure and emphasizes the training of communicative techniques, lifelong education capability and clinical skills. The Faculty¡¦s commitment in providing the best education and research in health sciences was further strengthened as the Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences was established in 2005 with research foci on early detection of severe diseases, innovative therapeutics and disease prevention through understanding of genetic susceptibility.
For the past twenty five years, the Faculty of Medicine has made great advances in teaching and research, gaining international recognition as a medical centre of excellence and producing over 3,500 medical professionals including doctors, nurses and pharmacists for the community.

 
  
 Silver Jubilee Dinner of Faculty of Medicine CUHK was held at the Grand Hall, Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre today with over 1,500 guests participating at the event. A dance performance by Nethersole School of Nursing students marked the opening of the event.  

The Honourable Henry Tang, GBS, JP, Financial Secretary of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Guest of Honour of the Silver Jubilee Dinner, delivered his address.
 

The Honourable Henry Tang, Dr Edgar Cheng, Chairman of the Council of CUHK, Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Professor Arthur KC Li, former Dean of Medicine and former Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Dr the Honourable York Chow, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food, Dr Alice Lam, Chairman of the University Grants Committee, Professor TF Fok, Dean of Medicine of CUHK, together with former Deans, Founding Chairmen and Associate Deans of Faculty of Medicine CUHK performed the birthday cake cutting.
 

The guests toasted the Silver Jubilee of Faculty of Medicine CUHK.
 


 
