[title]Four Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK[/title]

[date]27 September 2004[/date]


 Four Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong will confer honorary doctorates 
 on four distinguished persons at its Congregation to be held on Thursday, 
 9 December 2004.
The 
 four honorary graduands and the degrees to be conferred are:
Professor Lao Yung Wei (Lao Sze Kwang), renowned philosopher, 
 Professor of Philosophy, Huafan University in Taiwan and Academician 
 of Academia Sinica, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Literature, 
 honoris causa
Mr Yang Liwei, the Chinese astronaut who commanded China's 
 first manned space flight, will be conferred the degree of Doctor 
 of Science, honoris causa
Professor Sir James A Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economic 
 Sciences 1996, and Distinguished Professor-at-Large of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of 
 Social Science, honoris causa
Dr William M W Mong, Chairman and Senior Managing Director 
 of Shun Hing Group, will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Social 
 Science, honoris causa
Professor 
 Lao Yung Wei (Lao Sze Kwang) is a renowned philosopher. He is currently 
 Professor of Philosophy of Huafan University, Taiwan and Academician 
 of Academia Sinica. Professor Lao taught at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong from 1964 to 1985 and became an honorary senior research 
 fellow after his retirement. Professor Lao attended Peking University 
 and subsequently obtained his BA from Taiwan University. Professor 
 Lao was made Academician of Academia Sinica in Taiwan in 2002. He 
 is a prolific writer and is particularly well known for his three-volume 
 publication¡m·s½s°ê­õ¾Ç¥v¡non Chinese philosophy, which was published in 
 1984. He has been Visiting Scholar/Professor in such prestigious institutions 
 as Harvard University and Princeton University in the USA, and Tsing 
 Hua University and Chengchi University in Taiwan.
Mr 
 Yang Liwei is the first Chinese astronaut to go into space, and the 
 commander of China's first manned space flight. Mr Yang received his 
 bachelor's degree from No. 8 Aviation College of the People's Liberation 
 Army. He became a member of the national astronaut team in 1998. Aboard 
 Shenzhou-5 on 15 October 2003, Mr Yang flew round the Earth 14 times, 
 traversing a distance of about 600,000 kilometres. On 16 October 2003, 
 Mr Yang landed in Inner Mongolia with great precision. With his perseverance 
 and courage, Mr Yang realized China's dream of manned space flights. 
 He has also made important contributions towards the development of 
 space mission and space science.
Professor 
 Sir James A Mirrlees is a world-renowned economist and was awarded 
 a Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1996 for his "fundamental contributions 
 to the economic theory of incentives under asymmetric information". 
 He received his MA in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy from Edinburgh 
 University in the United Kingdom and a PhD from the University of 
 Cambridge. Subsequently he taught at the Universities of Oxford and 
 Cambridge for 35 years. Sir James is currently Distinguished Professor-at-Large 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
A 
 distinguished entrepreneur, Dr William M W Mong is Chairman and Senior 
 Managing Director of Shun Hing Group. Dr Mong founded Shun Hing Hong 
 in 1953, which became the sole agent in Hong Kong and Macau for the 
 National brand of products manufactured by Japan's Matsushita Electric 
 Industrial Company Limited, and the first company to bring into Hong 
 Kong Japanese home electrical appliances. Dr Mong established the 
 Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund in 1984. He was bestowed many 
 prestigious honours, including the Japanese Order of the Sacred Treasure, 
 Gold Rays with Rosette, an Asteroid 3678 named Mong Man Wai Star, 
 and honorary doctorates from numerous institutions around the world 
 for his distinguished contributions towards the promotion of industry 
 and commerce as well as the advancement of education, in particular, 
 higher education, medical services and welfare. 
 
 

 
