[title]CUHK Announces Suspension of Classroom Teaching[/title]

[date]28 March 2003[/date]


CUHK Announces Suspension of Classroom Teaching
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has shown great concern about 
 the effect of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) on its students 
 and staff and the campus as a whole. The CUHK Campus Severe Acute Respiratory 
 Syndrome (SARS) Task Force was formed on 22 March 2003 to monitor the 
 impact of SARS in CUHK. The Task Force has also proactively taken precautionary 
 measures to safeguard the health of staff and students against the possible 
 occurrence of the infection. Proper education about the disease has 
 been emphasized.
Up to 26 March, two documented 
 SARS cases were found, but the disease had been contracted outside the 
 campus. Both students were admitted to the Prince of Wales Hospital. 
 Counselling and medical screening were provided for students who were 
 believed to have had close contact with the infected students. The infected 
 students' hostels (including their rooms, the common room and toilets) 
 and other affected facilities were thoroughly disinfected and cleansed.
On 27 March, another student 
 of the University was reported to have contracted SARS, also from a 
 source outside the campus. In view of the occurrence of SARS cases on 
 more than one location on campus and that the infected students have 
 been to classes and used facilities in various parts of the campus, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong has, after careful consideration 
 and deliberations, decided that teaching on the Shatin Campus be suspended 
 from Saturday, 29 March until Sunday, 6 April.
This would help to reduce 
 the risk of cross infection of SARS among students and staff on campus 
 and enable thorough cleansing and disinfecting to be carried out extensively 
 on campus including classrooms, and other academic facilities, hostels, 
 restaurants and other amenities. All students are strongly advised to 
 stay home as far as possible during this class suspension period. However, 
 research students may continue to carry out research work on campus. 
 Despite the suspension of classroom teaching, the University campus 
 will remain open and maintain normal operation. With the exception of 
 courses offered on the Shatin Campus and the Prince of Wales Hospital, 
 all courses offered on off-campus locations will continue. University 
 libraries will also open. Students may approach their teachers for advice 
 on their study, and web-based teaching will not be affected. From now 
 on, all members of the University must keep heightened awareness and 
 continue to observe the precautionary measures against the disease, 
 such as wearing masks and avoiding going to crowded places. 

 
