[title]CUHK Held its 60th Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees[/title]

[date]4 December 2003[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong Held its 60th Congregation
 for the Conferment of Degrees 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong held its 60th Congregation for 
 the Conferment of Degrees on Thursday, 4 December 2003.
The 
 seven honorary graduates are Dr Raymond KWOK Ping Luen, distinguished 
 entrepreneur, leader in Hong Kong's property sector and Vice-Chairman 
 of the Council of CUHK; Professor the Honourable Arthur Kwok Cheung 
 LI, Secretary for Education and Manpower, and the former Vice-Chancellor 
 of CUHK; Dr Anthony Francis NEOH, Senior Counsel and Chief Adviser to 
 the China Securities Regulatory Commission; Professor the Honourable 
 JAO Tsung I, world-renowned scholar in Chinese and Oriental Studies, 
 Wei Lun Honorary Professor of Fine Arts and Emeritus Professor of Chinese 
 Language and Literature of CUHK; Professor YU Kwang Chung, famous Chinese 
 scholar, poet, and a former teacher of CUHK; Professor LU Yongxiang, 
 Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, 
 PRC and President of the Chinese Academy of Sciences; and Professor 
 Reinhard SELTEN, Nobel Laureate in Economics 1994 and Professor Emeritus 
 of Economics of the University of Bonn, Germany.
Dr KWOK, 
 Professor LI and Dr NEOH were each conferred the degree of Doctor of 
 Laws, honoris causa. Professor JAO and Professor YU were each conferred 
 the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa. Professor LU received 
 the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa. Professor SELTEN was 
 awarded the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa.
At the 
 Congregation, besides the seven honorary doctorates, 8 Doctor of Medicine 
 degrees, 120 Doctor of Philosophy degrees and 1 Doctor of Education 
 degree were conferred. 1,789 postgraduate students received their Master's 
 degrees. 429 degrees of Bachelor of Arts, 521 degrees of Bachelor of 
 Business Administration, 105 degrees of Bachelor of Education, 406 degrees 
 of Bachelor of Engineering, 73 degrees of Bachelor of Nursing, 30 degrees 
 of Bachelor of Pharmacy, 578 degrees of Bachelor of Science and 519 
 degrees of Bachelor of Social Science were awarded. (156 degrees of 
 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) have already been 
 conferred at the Fifty-ninth Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees 
 on 24 October, 2003.) 
A group 
 photo of the seven honour gradurates with Prof Ambrose Y C King, Vice-Chancellor 
 of CUHK (middle) and Dr Edgar W K Cheng, Chairman of the Council 
 (the fourth on the right): (from left) Dr Anthony Francis 
 Neoh, Prof Yu Kwang Chung, Prof the Honourable Arthur Kwok Cheung Li, 
 Prof the Honourable Jao Tsung I, Prof Lu Yongxiang, Prof Reinhard Selten 
 and Dr Raymond Kwok Ping Luen. 
 


 
