[title]Top Recognition Again for CUHK's EMBA (Non-Partnership Programme)[/title]

[date]20 October 2003[/date]


 Top Recognition Again for CUHK's EMBA (Non-Partnership Programme) 
 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Executive MBA Programme has, 
 for the third year running, emerged as the top-ranking non-partnership 
 programme in Asia and among the top 20 programmes worldwide, in the 
 latest global survey released by London-based Financial Times. More 
 than eighty schools participated in this survey. Global programmes and 
 partnership programmes - programmes operated by more than one business 
 school - have been included. Similar to the 2002 survey, business schools 
 are assessed on the basis of information supplied by the schools themselves 
 and feedback independently obtained from alumni, each given equal weighting.
CUHK's 
 EMBA Programme is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, 
 but also as one of only two business schools in the top 20 where the 
 medium of teaching is bilingual (the other is Instituto de Empress in 
 Spain). It also scores high in such areas as salary increase, work experience, 
 international students and percentage of women students.
"We 
 are delighted to note this result, particularly the consistently high 
 international ranking as previous years," Professor Andrew C.F. Chan, 
 Director of the EMBA Programme, said.
"Ours 
 is the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong Kong 
 product. The programme's success is, therefore, Hong Kong's success," 
 he added. "We owe it to the support of our University management and 
 the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, students and 
 alumni."
"As 
 always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit," he continued, "What is 
 important is maintaining our ability to nurture world-class management 
 talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, China and the region."
"We 
 will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory 
 and application, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep 
 pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since last year, 
 enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities 
 for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders, such 
 as the popular "Talking to CEOs" series which we co-organized with RTHK 
 and Cable TV, and the "New Thinking in Management" live programme currently 
 aired every Sunday afternoon on RTHK's Radio 1," he added.
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong's EMBA Programme was ranked no. 1 in 
 Asia by both Financial Times and BusinessWeek in 2001, and again by 
 Financial Times in 2002. Its MBA Programmes also received top ranking 
 by Asia Inc. in 2002 and 2003. 



 
