[title]Mercury content in Hong Kong pregnant women and newborns, and its relationship to diet[/title]

[date]27 February 2003[/date]


Mercury content in Hong Kong pregnant women and newborns, and its 
 relationship to diet
 
A number of heavy metals are toxic to the fetus. Mercury, in particular, 
 can damage the fetal brain resulting in microcephaly (small head due 
 to failure of the brain to grow), cerebral palsy, and mental retardation. 
 According to Professor Lam Wai-kei, Chairman of the Department of Chemical 
 Pathology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, the major source of 
 human mercury intake is dietary methylmercury present primarily in fish 
 and other seafood. Methylmercury is almost completely absorbed into 
 the blood after ingestion, and is distributed to all the tissues of 
 the body. In pregnant women, methylmercury readily crosses the placenta 
 into the fetal circulation, and deposits in the fetal brain. "Acute 
 accidental ingestion of large amount of mercury by pregnant women has 
 resulted in severe brain damage of their newborn infants in other countries 
 in the past", reported Professor Yip Shing-kai, Associate Professor 
 of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong, "the toxic effect of low dose exposure is less clear, 
 but is potentially significant".
In view of the possible 
 harmful effects of mercury on the unborn babies, the Department of Paediatrics, 
 Chemical Pathology, and Obstetrics and Gynaecology of the Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong have jointly carried out a study on 1,057 full-term newborn 
 infants delivered at the Prince of Wales Hospital in the last 2 years. 
 The blood mercury levels of the newborns and their mothers, as well 
 as their hair mercury content were measured, and the possible sources 
 of mercury exposure were investigated. The results showed that 24.7% 
 of the newborns have cord blood mercury concentrations above 61nmol/L, 
 the corrected upper allowable limit. Three percent of the infants had 
 blood mercury concentrations of as high as &gt;100nmol/L.
According to Professor 
 Fok Tai-fai, Chairman of the Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong, of the many dietary and environmental factors 
 they have investigated, the amount of fish consumption was identified 
 to be the most important factor that has a direct relationship with 
 the blood mercury concentrations of the babies. However, the research 
 team has measured the mercury content of 29 types of fish commonly consumed 
 in Hong Kong, and found that none of the samples contained a mercury 
 content that exceeded 0.5ppm, the upper safety limit recommended by 
 the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department. The mercury content of 
 samples of fish ball available from the local supermarkets was also 
 below this limit. "Our study shows that the dietary fish commonly consumed 
 in Hong Kong do not contain excessive mercury", said Professor Fok, 
 "however, we have also shown that eating too much fish by the mother 
 during pregnancy is the major factor in elevating the blood mercury 
 level of the fetus. In order to avoid exposing their unborn babies to 
 too much mercury, pregnant women should avoid excessive consumption 
 of dietary fish." 

 
