[title]"Exhibition on Cultural Tourism in China"[/title]

[date]5 January 2004[/date]


 CUHK School of Hotel and Tourism Management co-organizes an 
 "Exhibition on Cultural Tourism in China"
 with Asia Tourism Exchange Center Limited
 To Promote National Tourism 
 
China has a long history of cultural heritage which has always been 
 attractive to tourists. The China National Tourism Administration, directly 
 regulated by the state council, has aimed to promote "The lifestyle 
 of China" in 2004, hoping to introduce the unique lifestyle of Chinese 
 people to overseas tourists.
To help 
 promote cultural tourism in China, the School of Hotel and Tourism Management 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, for the very first time, co-organizes 
 an "Exhibition on Cultural Tourism in China" with the Asia Tourism Exchange 
 Center Limited at the CUHK campus from January 5 to 9, 2004. The Asia 
 Tourism Exchange Center Limited is a Hong Kong-registered, non-profit 
 agency belonging to the China Tourism Association. It researches the 
 travel market in Hong Kong and Macau and promotes the tourism services 
 of the mainland. It also plays an active role in assisting the development 
 of tourism industry in China, Hong Kong and Macau.
A total 
 of about 160 photos on various tourist attractions of China will be 
 displayed at the Exhibition. Free distribution of 10,000 copies of newly 
 published books on cultural tourism in China, including "The World Heritage 
 of China", "Catch the Lifestyle-China" and "The Custom of National Minorities" 
 will also be available at the Exhibition which is also open to general 
 public.
The 
 Chinese Government has, since 1986, nominated various properties for 
 inclusion in "The World Heritage List" at the United Nations Educational, 
 Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Currently, the World 
 Heritage Committee of the UNESCO has already listed 29 properties of 
 China, such as the Imperial Palace of the Ming and Qing Dynasties, The 
 Great Wall, Leshan Giant Buddha and Jiuzhaigou Valley Scenic and Historic 
 Interest Area. Currently, the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO has 
 already listed 29 properties of China, making China the top third country 
 with the largest amount of properties in the "World Heritage List". 
 This Exhibition will focus on introducing these World Heritages of China.
Professor 
 Lee Kam-hon, Director of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong said, "China, one of the four 
 Cultural Civilizations in the World, is very rich in tourism products 
 and is expanding and improving its tourism facilities and services. 
 Being a pioneer educator to cultivate experts for the hotel and tourism 
 industry, our School hopes to help increase the knowledge and interests 
 of our students in China cultural tourism and its current development 
 by organizing this Exhibition. We wish to equip our students with the 
 knowledge necessary for contributing to the future development of China 
 tourism. We also want to introduce the gist of China cultural tourism 
 among general public especially the World Heritages of China, unique 
 travel resorts and national customs." 
From left 
 to right: Prof. LEE Kam-hon, Director of School of Hotel and Tourism 
 Management, CUHK; Mr. LI Lei, Assistant Director of Asia Tourism Exchange 
 Center Ltd. 
Ribbon-cutting 
 ceremony held at 1:30 pm, Jan 5 at Cultural Square of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong. From left to right: Prof. LEE Kam-hon, Director of School 
 of Hotel and Tourism Management, CUHK; Ms. Chan Kit Man, Stephanie, 
 Vice-President of the Society of Hotel and Tourism Management of CUHK; 
 Mr. LI Lei, Assistant Director of Asia Tourism Exchange Center Ltd. 
 
Prof. 
 LEUNG Wai Kin, School of Hotel and Tourism Management (the far left), 
 Prof. LEE Kam-hon, Director of School of Hotel and Tourism Management 
 (4th from left) and Mr. LI Lei, Assistant Director of Asia Tourism Exchange 
 Center Ltd. (5th from left) and students of the School of Hotel and 
 Tourism Management at the Exhibition. 
 

 
