[title]53rd Anniversary Celebration of Chung Chi College CUHK[/title]

[date]29 October 2004[/date]


 53rd Anniversary Celebration
 of Chung Chi College
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 
Chung Chi College of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 was founded in October 1951. In celebration of the College 53rd Anniversary, 
 the College, its Student Union and the Chung Chi College Alumni Association 
 joined hands to organize a series of celebratory activities this month 
 especially on October 29, 2004, which was this year's Chung Chi College 
 Founders' Day.
The 
 College Founders' Day Thanksgiving Service held in the morning of 
 October 29, 2004 was the highlight event among all celebratory functions. 
 In the Thanksgiving Service, the College was very honoured to have 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the University, presented 
 Kunkle and Pommerenke Grand Scholarships amounting to HK$50100 each 
 to four outstanding Chung Chi students, namely Miss Tam Mei Ki (Year 
 4 Integrated BBA Programme), Mr. Tse Hong Tak (Year 3 Computer Engineering), 
 Mr. Ng Yik Hing (Year 5 Chinese Medicine) and Miss Cecilia Poon Yee 
 Man (Year 4 Psychology). The installation ceremony of Professor Leung 
 Yuen Sang, Professor of History of the University, as new Head of 
 College was also held in the Service. The installation ceremony was 
 officiated by Mr. Karl C. Kwok, Chairman of the College Board of Trustees.
The 
 Student Festival planned by the College Student Union including various 
 kinds of student activities like stair drawing, anniversary exhibition, 
 tug-of-war, carnival, round-campus-run were all successfully held 
 and enjoyed by College students and staff.
Another 
 very popular celebratory event was the " Thousand People Feast "and 
 the College has been keeping this unique tradition since its first 
 launch in 1976. The Feast this year was attended by close to 2000 
 students, staff members, alumni and friends of the College. The celebration 
 of the College 53rd Anniversary will come to an end with fun, laughter 
 and joyfulness after the College Alumni Day to be held on Saturday, 
 October 30, 2004. Programmes of this annual alumni event of the College 
 include a tea reception hosted by College Head and a reunion dinner 
 on campus. 

Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the University, presented Kunkle 
 and Pommerenke Grand Scholarships to four outstanding Chung Chi 
 students.
Professor 
 Leung Yuen Sang, Head of Chung Chi College.
  



 
