[title]Psychosocial difficulties of Amoy Gardens residents After the SARS outbreak[/title]

[date]18 December 2003[/date]


 Psychosocial difficulties of Amoy Gardens residents After the SARS 
 outbreak 
 
The Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center at The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong examined the psychosocial impact of SARS on the residents of the 
 Amoy Gardens complex in a study conducted from June to August 2003.
After 
 2 focus group meetings in mid June 2003 as well as literature and news 
 review on SARS, a self-report questionnaire was finalized. 4,896 questionnaires 
 were distributed to all the individual households of the Amoy Gardens, 
 903 were validly analyzed (response rate 18.5%). The respondents were 
 aged 15 to 80 (41% males, 59% females). Nearly 90% of the respondents 
 were employed.
The 
 survey showed that the daily lives of nearly 90% of the respondents 
 were deeply affected, including the domains of social relationship, 
 work and family lives. 40.6% recalled that they were rejected for dining 
 with friends during April 2003. 25.4% reported that they had distanced 
 neighbors who (or their family members) were infected. More than 30% 
 were turned down when they requested household maintenance services 
 or home delivery, more than 20% were rejected for hotel service or received 
 unfair treatment at clinics. In order not to be treated differently, 
 nearly 40% of the respondents had concealed their Amoy Gardens identity 
 when eating out in the public or visiting a doctor.
In the 
 workplace, nearly half of those who were at work in April perceived 
 unfair treatment or unpleasant experiences. The unfair treatment by 
 bosses included being requested to work at home (38.3%) and to produce 
 clear health bill in order to resume work (26.8%). The unpleasant experiences 
 with colleagues or clients included being requested to wear masks (65.3%), 
 being avoided (47.2%) and receiving impersonal communication (44.6%). 
 Almost 40% of the respondents had concealed their identity as Amoy Gardens 
 residents when seeking jobs during the outbreak whilst nearly 20% would 
 do so when necessary in future employment.
Ex-SARS 
 patients in the Amoy Gardens also experienced difficulties in workplace 
 or schools. For example, respondents who were acquainted with ex-SARS 
 patients there said that the latter were requested: to take prolonged 
 leave before resuming work or schooling (68.0%) and to continue to wear 
 masks at work or in school (57.8%).
Regarding 
 the experiences of residents of block E, 37.3% of these respondents 
 had felt being shunned by residents of other blocks. At the same time, 
 the non-block E respondents also expressed their fear against block 
 E. They avoided walking near block E (76.0%), emphasized to others that 
 they were not block E residents (61.2%), and admitted avoiding block 
 E residents (12.1%).
Nearly 
 40% of the respondents who were employed during April reported that 
 they were treated differently from colleagues residing in other infected 
 buildings in Hong Kong. Nearly 60% complained that they were treated 
 irrationally. Most of the respondents (88.4%) thought that the public 
 saw Amoy Gardens differently from other infected buildings. The most 
 common reasons for such perception were: the SARS viruses in the Amoy 
 Gardens were extraordinarily infectious (89.2%), the spreading of SARS 
 there was mysterious (75.3%), and many blocks there were infected (74.9%), 
 the government's unsatisfactory ways of disseminating information on 
 death and infected cases (64.7%), and the negative portrayal of the 
 Amoy Gardens in the media (57.1%).
Nearly 
 90% of the respondents reported having been distressed and anxious since 
 the outbreak of SARS. Among these distressed residents, persistent (more 
 than 2 weeks) symptoms of low mood, irritability, insomnia, headache 
 and chest discomfort were common (73.1%, 56.7%, 34.2% 17.4% and 17.1% 
 respectively). They attributed the occurrence of such symptoms to the 
 infectiousness of SARS, the mysterious mode of spreading, and the effect 
 of stigmatization. Nearly 60% of the anxious respondents may have suffered 
 from the symptoms of mood disorders because of the SARS outbreak. 40% 
 of the respondents had moved out of Amoy Gardens during the outbreak 
 while nearly 40% of those who had not moved out had thought about leaving 
 there. In the future, about 20% of the respondents had a plan of moving 
 out.
Physical 
 proximity was a causal factor of distress. Block E residents reported 
 a higher percentage of chest discomfort compared to non-block E residents. 
 The residents in Phase I also reported a higher percentage of irritability. 
 For those who contracted SARS and those had members infected in their 
 flat, they had more complaints of insomnia, chest discomfort and irritability.
When 
 asked about the causes of high mortality and infection rate, respondents 
 reported that they were due to unsatisfactory management and policy 
 by the government (88.0%), insufficient knowledge of a highly infectious 
 virus (71.6%) and the infra-structural problems in the Amoy Gardens 
 (45.4%).
SARS 
 related suffering and unfair treatment were common among Amoy Gardens 
 residents. It is recommended that the government should pay more attention 
 to the psychological health of the public and adopt a proactive mode 
 of intervention to individuals who are affected or will be affected 
 in future SARS outbreaks. An accurate mode of communicating risks is 
 also important for reducing panic and socioeconomic losses. 
 

 
