[title]CUHK Architecture Department Shows "Wind Curtain" Effect in Amoy Garden Accentuates Vertical Spread of Viruses[/title]

[date]3 May 2003[/date]


CUHK Architecture Department Shows
 "Wind Curtain" Effect in Amoy Garden
 Accentuates Vertical Spread of Viruses 
 
The Architecture Department of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 has conducted a detailed computational fluid dynamics (CFD) study investigating 
 the entire Amoy Garden complex. It was found that the placement of Blocks 
 E and F, relative to each other and relative to the prevailing wind 
 direction leads to a "wind curtain" effect, sealing off the reentrant 
 area (light well), in which the horizontal air-flow becomes nearly stagnant. 
 Thus, any droplets laden with viruses that may be released into the 
 reentrant area will have a high tendency to remain in the area, and 
 therefore to spread vertically and contaminate other floors.
Thus, it was found that 
 the risk is associated with the unfortunate convergence of a number 
 of factors: problems with sewage, U-tubes, and also this mechanism. 
 Buildings that do not have this topography (relative to neighbouring 
 buildings and the wind direction) are unlikely to be at the same level 
 of risk. This should put the minds of large parts of the community at 
 ease.
The research also shows 
 that the addition of a simple panel ("spoilers") at a suitable position 
 in the reentrant area would disrupt the "wind curtain" sufficiently 
 that this effect would no longer be operative. This would provide a 
 simple retro-fitting solution (in addition to rectification of sewage 
 problems) to many buildings.
The CUHK Architecture 
 Department is ready to provide technical support in the improvement 
 of building codes, and to owners / management committees of individual 
 buildings to assess specific situations. 
Photo caption:
 Professor Tsou Jin Yeu of the Department of Architecture at The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong showing the "Wind Curtain" Effect at Blocks 
 E and F of Amoy Garden. 

 
