[title]Naming Ceremony of the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases


 

 

 [/title]

[date]16 November 2006[/date]


 Naming Ceremony of the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases
 CUHK research updates on influenza 
 
 New infectious diseases and new problems of existing infectious disease continue to pose threats to the health of the Hong Kong population and the population of the world at large. The Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases was established in October 2003 to conduct research and provide professional training in infectious diseases. The interdisciplinary group of experts on epidemiology, microbiology, clinical medicine and health economics will contribute to infectious disease preparedness of the society.
In recognition of a generous donation of HK$25 million from Dr. Stanley Ho, G.B.S., to support research on infectious diseases, The Chinese University of Hong Kong has named the Centre after Dr. Ho. The Naming Ceremony of the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases was held at the Prince of Wales Hospital today. Officiating at the ceremony were Dr. Stanley Ho, G.B.S., Mr. Patrick W. M. Huen, Executive Director and CEO of Seng Heng Bank Limited, Macau, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Professor Fok Tai-Fai, Dean of Medicine, CUHK and Professor Joseph J. Y. Sung, Director, the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases, CUHK. 
A memorandum of understanding was signed as early as 2002 between The Chinese University and the medical and health authorities of the Macau SAR to forge closer cooperation. Such links have been further strengthened since 2005 following a generous gesture of the Dr. Stanley Ho Medical Development Foundation to sponsor Macau¡¦s health care professionals to come to CUHK for continuous medical education. Today, thanks to yet another magnificent donation from Dr. Ho, our CEID is in a position to scale new heights in its work against the outbreak and spread of infectious diseases in Hong Kong, Macau and the neighbouring region, said Professor Lawrence J. Lau.
We need a healthy environment to nurture a healthy population, and a healthy population is the basis of economic and social prosperity. To enhance public health is not the responsibility of a small group of people, but the joint responsibility of the community. Since the inception of the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases in late 2003, the Centre, under the leadership of Professor Joseph Sung, has conducted a lot of meaningful research works to fight against infectious diseases. I am indeed highly privileged to have the Centre named after me. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all members of the Centre for their contributions for the benefit of the whole community, said Dr. Stanley Ho.
In Hong Kong, amongst various infectious diseases, it has been estimated that up to 60 per 10,000 of the elderly population are hospitalized annually for influenza-associated complications. Researchers at the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases have conducted a series of pre-clinical experimental and clinical studies to explain the pathogenesis of influenza infection on human cell and organ damages, and how to manage the disease to reduce the healthcare burden of the society. Some of these results were announced today.
Severe human influenza clinical diagnosis and management
 In a study conducted at the Prince of Wales Hospital involving 356 patients (2004-2005), a rapid test was used to diagnose influenza on admission. Clinical presentations were highly diverse. The majority (69.4%) of patients developed cardio-respiratory or other complications. A total of 72.2% of patients received oseltamivir (Tamiflu) treatment upon diagnostic confirmation. No major side effect was noted in the study cohort. Early diagnosis and antiviral treatment within the first 2 days of symptom are the determining factors of early discharge from hospital (-33% length of stay) in patients with severe influenza.
How does influenza kill?
 Research findings indicate that the influenza virus triggers a carefully regulated process that leads to cell death. This process, known as apoptosis (or programmed cell death in layman terms) is genetically regulated and inherited in all cells. The researchers have discovered the influenza virus encoded protein NS-1 plays a crucial role in apoptosis. The influenza virus can also stimulate the infected cells to produce cytokines/chemokines, powerful mediators of a wide variety of cellular events leading to multi-organ failure. Some of these cytokines are produced only in avian influenza infection. 
Development of new anti-flu drugs
 At present, only a few anti-flu drugs are available, and the problem of resistance further limits the therapeutic choice. CUHK has conducted a series of studies to search for potential new anti-flu drugs. Two plant-derived compounds, 1-21-1-1 and PYF1M2, have been identified as highly effective in inhibiting the replication of human and avian influenza viruses in cell culture systems. These two compounds can be further explored for the feasibility of further development into anti-flu drugs. 
 

Naming Ceremony (from left: Professor Fok Tai-Fai, Dean of Medicine, CUHK, Dr. Stanley Ho, G.B.S., Mr. Patrick W. M. Huen, Executive Director and CEO of Seng Heng Bank Limited, Macau, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK and Professor Joseph J. Y. Sung, Director, the Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases, CUHK.)
Professor Joseph Sung introduced the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases to Dr Stanley Ho. 


 
