[title]CUHK Accountancy Graduates Swept All 3 top Awards of CPA QP Exam[/title]

[date]15 September 2005[/date]


 CUHK Accountancy Graduates Swept All 3 top Awards of CPA QP Exam 
Three graduates of the School of Accountancy at The Chinese University of Hong Kong swept all three awards, namely Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards of this year¡¦s CPA Qualification Programme of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA). Another CUHK graduate also took the Gold Award of the Exam held in 2004.
The top three candidates of the Final Professional Examination (FPE) for the June 2005 Session are Lee Chui-shan, Teresa (Gold Award), Tang Yan, Elsa (Silver Award) and Li Miu-yee (Bronze Award), all CUHK graduates of 2004, while the Gold Award in FPE for the December 2004 Session went to Wong Hoi-ting, Edith, a CUHK Accountancy graduate of 2003. The four now work in PricewaterhouseCoopers.
The success of these graduates is hailed today by Mr Paul Chan, Vice President of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and Professor Xie Jiazheng, James, Director of the School of Accountancy at CUHK. Professor Xie expressed his pride in the outstanding achievements of the School¡¦s graduates, CUHK¡¦s Accountancy graduates are always well sought after by employers. This year, of the 120 graduates, 82% were employed by Big 4 CPA firms. Each graduate got an average of 2.76 job offers and an average salary of $10,647, an encouraging increase as compared to the average 2.41 offers and salary of $10,200 last year. He continued, This represents the vote of confidence casts by eminent accounting firms and the community on our graduates. 
CUHK Accountancy School also admits the best students. The 146 newly admitted undergraduate students this year have an average scores of B, while the top students admitted to the School scored 4.6 (Highest being 5.0). Besides, the School is also popular among secondary students. It is one of the University¡¦s top five programmes which has the most JUPAS applicants in the year 2005.
HKICPA¡¦s CPA Qualification Programme is designed to train accountants to deal with business situations typical in Hong Kong as an international financial centre. The programme builds on a university education, and expands into application skills in financial management, financial reporting, taxation, auditing and information management. Graduates from the programme are required to undergo structured practical training under an authorized employer or supervisor to gain relevant experience before they are eligible for membership to the Institute and be qualified as Hong Kong Certified Public Accountants.
 Mr. Paul M. P. CHAN, Vice President, Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
 
Professor XIE Jiazheng James, Director, School of Accountancy, CUHK 
 
From left: WONG Hoi Ting, Edith, TANG Yan, Elsa, LEE Chui Shan, Teresa and LI Miu Yee 
 
 
 


 
