[title]CUHK Promotes Community Collaboration to Fight Against Fall and Fracture in Elderly[/title]

[date]17 September 2005[/date]


 CUHK Promotes Community Collaboration to Fight Against Fall and Fracture in Elderly
The Community Fall Prevention Campaign of the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong organized the International Symposium on Fall and Fracture Prevention for the Elderly to examine the epidemiology and risk factors of fall in elderly and share with healthcare workers successful fall prevention strategies in community and institutional settings.
Elderly is more susceptible to falls and osteoporotic fractures with increasing age. In Hong Kong, 20% of elderly aged 60 or above have accidental falls annually. In 2003, there were about 40,000 geriatric falls with admissions to Accident and Emergency Departments in hospitals in Hong Kong. Among the admitted fallers, 24.8% had fractures, in which hip and wrist fractures were the commonest, with 38.1% and 30.0% respectively. 
The Community Fall Prevention Campaign has been established by Professor Leung Kwok-sui, Chairman of the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong since 2000. As there has been more and more community extension on the topic of fall and fracture prevention in the community, this first international symposium provided a timely platform for overseas, mainland China and local experts to discuss on recent researches or experiences. Besides, new technologies on fall and fracture prevention were demonstrated. These new technologies include:
1. High frequency, low intensity vibration therapy 
 Recent results have shown that there were significant improvements in reaction time (p=0.027) and movement velocity (p=0.043) among the post-menopausal women after receiving 4-month vibration therapy. Therefore, the vibration service has been extended to the community for the benefits of elderly. 
2. Hip protectors
 Hip protector is another new design used to prevent hip fractures for the elderly. Previous studies showed that hip protectors could reduce hip fractures by 60%. CUHK has already collaborated with The Hong Kong Society for the Aged (SAGE), studying the compliance and effectiveness of hip protectors among the residents in the old-aged homes of SAGE. 
In this symposium, community workers also shared their experience in joining the collaborative projects on fall prevention. 
1. 116 elderly completed the Shatin Community Fall Prevention Program of ELCHK Shatin Integrated Elderly Service. There were significant reduction by 68% in annual fall incidences from 0.97 to 0.31 throughout the fall prevention intervention period (p&lt;0.001). Significant improvements were also found in some balance tests. 34 elderly had finished the 3-month intervention of the high frequency, low intensity vibration therapy, and the re-assessment showed that they had significant improvements in reaction time, movement velocity, degrees of movement, forward and left directional control (p&lt;0.05). 
2. Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui Welfare Council Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui Lok Man Alice Kwok Integrated Service Centre has established a team of social workers, healthcare assistants, and volunteers to carry out Fall Risk Screening Test, The Chinese University of Hong Kong for 1,054 elderly aged 60 or above from June 2004 to July 2005. The elderly centre then provided a series of follow-ups to the elderly, e.g. physiotherapy exercises, home modifications, etc. The lower limbs muscle strength and balance of these elderly participants had improved significantly by 82% after the course of physiotherapy exercises. 
3. The Mobile Fall Risk Assessment Service was launched in April 2005 by the Community Fall Prevention Campaign in collaboration with Caritas Hong Kong Services for the Elderly. Till now, 1,500 elderly have been assessed in this service and it was found that nearly 70% had visual deficit, 50% had poor balancing power, and 40% had risks of getting osteoporosis after screening of bone mineral density. All of the above risk factors would increase the chance of getting elderly falls and fractures. An enquiry hotline: 8120-0760 for the service was established.
The following bodies contributed to the successful organization of the international symposium: Asian Association for Dynamic Osteosynthesis, Caritas Hong Kong Services for the Elderly, Caritas Medical Centre, ELCHK, Shatin Integrated Elderly Service, Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui Welfare Council, Hong Kong Occupational Therapy Association, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Jockey Club Centre for Osteoporosis Care and Control, The Hong Kong Council of Social Service, The Hong Kong Society for the Aged, and The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council Shamshuipo District Elderly Community Centre.
 
vibration theraphy 


 
