[title]'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index Reveals the Improvement of Hong Kong Quality of Life in 2003[/title]

[date]12 November 2003[/date]


 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index Reveals the Improvement 
 of 
 Hong Kong Quality of Life in 2003 
 
The first launch of the 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index, 
 which is designed by the Faculty of Social Science of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong, shows that the quality of life in Hong Kong in 2003 was 
 improved compared with that in last year, although Hong Kong is still 
 troubled by persistent budget deficit, high unemployment rate and other 
 socio-economic and political problems.
As one 
 of the highlights of the 40th anniversary celebration of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong, the Faculty of Social Science designs the 'CUHK' 
 Hong Kong Quality of Life Index. Starting from the year of 2003, 
 the Index will be released annually at year-end. With the Index as a 
 composite indicator, it is the intention of the Faculty to measure and 
 keep track of Hong Kong quality of life in the 21st century, and provide 
 policy makers and the community with a useful reference. It also aims 
 to advocate the quality of life in Hong Kong and draw public attention 
 to the issue of quality of life. 
'CUHK' 
 Hong Kong Quality of Life Index consists of 21 indicators that are 
 grouped into three sub-indices (see appendix). The indicators are selected 
 according to the coverage, measurability, representativeness, and importance 
 to the quality of life in Hong Kong. The weighting of each indicator 
 is decided on the basis of advice and research of renowned local and 
 international scholars in the fields of quality of life and social indicators.
Taking 
 the year of 2002 as the base year of the study, the 'CUHK' Hong Kong 
 Quality of Life Index of 2002 is 100. If the Index of a year is 
 above 100, it means that the quality of life in Hong Kong in that year 
 is better than that in 2002. If it is below 100, it reveals that the 
 quality of life in Hong Kong in that year is worse than that in 2002. 
 If the Index is 100, it indicates that the Hong Kong quality of life 
 in that year is the same as that in 2002.
According 
 to the first 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index released 
 this year, the score of the Index of 2003 is 102.32. All the three sub-indices 
 are slightly higher than that in 2002, indicating that the quality of 
 life in Hong Kong was slightly improved as compared with last year.
As compared 
 with last year, among 21 indicators, 13 indicators were improved in 
 2003. Notification rate of notified infectious disease, rental indices 
 and stress index declined this year. Expectancy of life at birth, age 
 participation rate for first-degree programmes and post-graduate programmes 
 in local universities and index of current economic conditions were 
 higher in 2003. In addition, house affordability, press freedom, press 
 criticism, air pollution and recycle rate of municipal solid waste all 
 improved this year. The Hong Kong people are also more satisfied with 
 the government performance and their lives.
7 were 
 worse in this year. Public expenditure on health and education as a 
 proportion to GDP and real wage were declined while unemployment rate 
 and overall crime rate were increased. Also there were more water and 
 noise pollution in 2003.
In sum, 
 13 indicators were better, 7 were worse while the standardized mortality 
 rate remained uncharged. 

2003 
 "CUHK" Hong Kong Quality of Life Index

Performance 
 compared with last year (2002)
Socio-Cultural 
 Sub-Index 

1. 
 Standardized Mortality Rate
unchanged


2. 
 Expectation of Life at Birth

 
 better

3. 
 Public Expenditure on Health as a Proportion to GDP

worse
4. 
 Notification Rate of Notified Infectious Diseases

 
 better

 
 5. Stress Index

 
 better

6. 
 General Life Satisfaction Index

 
 better

7. 
 Press Freedom Index 

 
 better

8. 
 Press Criticism Index

 
 better

 
 9. Government Performance Index

 
 better

10. 
 Overall Crime Rate 

worse



Economic 
 Sun-Index


11. 
 Affordability Index
 
 better

12. 
 Rental Indices 
 
 better

13. 
 Unemployment Rate

worse
14. 
 Index of Current Economic Conditions
 
 better

15. 
 Real Wage Indices 

worse
16. 
 Public Expenditure on Education as a Proportion to GDP 

worse
17. 
 Age Participation Rate for First-Degree Programmes and Post-Graduate 
 Programmes in Local Universities 
 
 better

 

Environmental 
 Sub-Index 

18. 
 Air Index
 
 better

19. 
 Water Index

worse
20. 
 Noise Index

worse
21. 
 Recycle Rate of Municipal Solid Waste 
 
 better

Sources 
 of information:
 Stress Index, General Life Satisfaction Index, Press Freedom Index, 
 Press Criticism Index, Government Performance Index and Indices of Current 
 Economic Conditions are collected from the Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific 
 Studies. All other data are collected from government and related institutions.

From left:
 Prof Ng Sai Leung, Assistat Professor, Dept of Geography and Resource 
 Management, CUHK
 Prof Chan Ying Keung, Professor, Dept of Sociology, CUHK
 Prof Lee Siu Nam, Director of School of Journalism and Communication, 
 CUHK 
 Prof Kwan Cheuk Chiu, Associate Professor, Dept of Economics, CUHK
 Prof Chong Tai Leung, Associate Professor, Dept of Economics, CUHK



 
