[title]NIH Grants Bring CUHK's Research on Chinese Medicine to the International Arena[/title]

[date]4 February 2004[/date]


 NIH Grants Bring CUHK's Research on Chinese Medicine to the International 
 Arena 
 
Two Chinese medicine projects of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 (CUHK) were awarded the first Planning Grants for the International 
 Centers for Research on Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) 
 by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) 
 of the U.S National Institutes of Health (NIH).
80 percent 
 of the world's population uses plants to meet their primary health care 
 needs, so research on indigenous practices can lead to significant advances 
 in global health. NCCAM is funding new partnerships between U.S. and 
 international research teams to create the infrastructure and scientific 
 foundation for research on CAM. The culmination of these planning efforts 
 will be a competition for the NCCAM International Centers for Research 
 on CAM.
CUHK 
 is the only institution from Hong Kong joining these partnerships that 
 allow investigators to conduct research in the unique environments in 
 which the practices originated. Ten projects were selected from 108 
 applications and among which two have participation from CUHK.
The 
 first project involves a two-year grant of US$263,031 awarded to Harvard 
 University Medical School, Boston, the China Academy of Traditional 
 Chinese Medicine, Institute of Chinese Medicine of CUHK and Keio University 
 of Japan to establish a US-China-Japan research consortium on herbal 
 medicine.
In response 
 to NIH's call for the need to systematically evaluate the quality, safety, 
 efficacy and basic science mechanism of herbal medicines worldwide, 
 the consortium aims at developing an International Center for Research 
 on CAM which pools Chinese medicine experts and researchers from Hong 
 Kong, Mainland China and Japan where there are a long and rich history 
 of herbal medicines. 
Promising 
 herbal medicines for untreatable diseases like cancer will be identified 
 and then systematically procured, extracted, characterized and tested 
 with the new and advanced high-throughput screening methodologies. It 
 is anticipated that further preclinical testing and multi-site international 
 human clinical trials will be conducted in the second phase.
Another 
 US$255,940 was granted to University of Maryland, Baltimore, the Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK and the University of Illinois at 
 Chicago Program for setting up the Center for Functional Bowel Disorders 
 and Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM).
Irritable 
 bowel syndrome (IBS) is a functional disorder of the digestive tract 
 characterized by abdominal pain and altered bowel habits in the absence 
 of organic disease. It has a strong impact on daily activities, social 
 performance, and psychological status. Epidemiological studies in Hong 
 Kong indicate that the prevalence may be as high as 6.6%. Treatment 
 of IBS has so far been unsatisfactory and there was no proof that any 
 drug regimen is effective for all IBS patients. Preliminary data suggest 
 that herbal drugs and acupuncture may benefit patients suffering from 
 IBS. 
The 
 collaborative consortium will support a multi-disciplinary team of researchers 
 to conduct basic science and clinical research investigating the use 
 of CAM in the treatment of IBS by combining expertise in TCM from Hong 
 Kong and expertise in basic science and clinical research in the U.S. 
 to produce evidence-based results in TCM studies.
This 
 project consolidates a currently developing collaborative relationship 
 between the University of Maryland Center for Integrative Medicine, 
 CUHK and the University of Illinois at Chicago and activities are directed 
 at the long range goal of creating a formal Research Group for TCM in 
 Functional Bowel Disorders.
Professor 
 Leung Ping Chung, Chairman of the Management Committee of the Institute 
 of Chinese Medicine said, "The partnership and synergism with prestigious 
 institutes will foster research in Chinese medicine. The grants are 
 also a recognition of CUHK's achievement in Chinese medicine research 
 and brings it to the international arena." 
 
 

 
