[title]CUHK's "The Biggest Healthy Breakfast Day" Listed as A New World Record[/title]

[date]24 November 2003[/date]


 CUHK's "The Biggest Healthy Breakfast Day" Listed as A New World 
 Record 
 
"The Biggest Healthy Breakfast Day", launched by the Centre for Health 
 Education and Health Promotion of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 on 28 June 2002 was recently formally presented the certificate for 
 a new Guinness World Record. This world largest simultaneous breakfast 
 involved 91,591 students, teachers and parents at 144 different venues 
 around Hong Kong with an aim of arousing public attention to the importance 
 of breakfast. Many participating schools carry on the message by organizing 
 various health promoting activities and holding "Healthy Breakfast Day" 
 as orientation or regular event.
Various 
 studies by the Centre suggest that children who eat breakfast are healthier, 
 happier and even perform better academically. A health surveillance 
 study in 1999 on over 26,000 primary and secondary students revealed 
 that 21% of the students did not eat breakfast with significantly higher 
 percentage in upper grades (24.1% amongst the age range 15-19 vs 19.5% 
 amongst the age range 10-14). The perceived level of happiness and having 
 healthy eating habits such as taking five servings of fruits and/or 
 vegetables daily were independent factors associated with having breakfast 
 regularly. Smoking or drinking, and stronger sense of hopelessness were 
 independent factors associated with higher likelihood of not having 
 breakfast.
Surveys 
 on over 7,000 primary and secondary students amongst the Centre's network 
 of 'Healthy Schools' in late 2001 revealed that 17% of the students 
 did not eat breakfast. Students with depressive symptoms were more likely 
 not having breakfast compared with those without depressive symptoms 
 (23.1% vs 12.9%). Students who eat breakfast had significantly higher 
 life satisfaction score. 74% and 70% of students having breakfast respectively 
 rated themselves with good academic results and good health whilst only 
 60% of students without breakfast did so.
A proper 
 breakfast provides about one third of the daily total energy and nutrient 
 requirements. Healthy breakfast should be in line with the healthy eating 
 pyramid and includes the five food groups: bread and cereals, vegetable, 
 fruit, dairy products and meat or beans. It should be less on fat, sugar, 
 salt, and rich in calcium and dietary fibre. 

Professor 
 Albert Li showing the Guinness World Record Certificate with staff and 
 students from the participating schools.
 
 



 
