[title]Study on The Hong Kong Men who have Sex with other Men[/title]

[date]19 October 2004[/date]


 Study on The Hong Kong Men who have Sex with other Men
 
The Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong conducted a study on the sexual 
 behaviors of the men who have sex with other men (MSM) population 
 in Hong Kong. The study, conducted at the end of 2001, interviewed 
 about 15000 adult male respondents who were of age 18 to 60. A total 
 of 667 MSM were identified, of which 292 had some MSM behaviors in 
 the last 6 months. The study used a special computerized questionnaire 
 to increase its validity and is the first large-scale survey of the 
 type. The response rate was about 60%. It was implemented by the Community 
 Research Program on AIDS of the Centre.
Professor 
 Joseph Lau Tak Fai, Director of the Centre, reported a summary of 
 the main findings of the study. It is estimated that about 4.6% of 
 all adult men of age 18-60 in Hong Kong had ever had MSM behaviors 
 (sexual intercourse with another man); 2% of all adult men had such 
 MSM behaviors in the last 6 months. These figures are very comparable 
 to the figures reported in the US and the UK.
It 
 is found that 24.6% of those who had MSM behaviors in the last 6 months 
 had had anal sex with another man. In the last 6 months and among 
 those MSM having anal sex, 51.4% had had 3 or more male sex partners; 
 11% contracted STD; 20.6% have performed an HIV antibody test and 
 3.5% had participated in HIV prevention activities. (For the non-anal-sex 
 MSM group, 17.7% had had 3 or more male sex partners, 4% contracted 
 STD, 11.9% had had HIV antibody test and 7% joined relevant activities). 
 In the future, the anal sex group had 34.5% of its member not perceiving 
 any chance to contract HIV and 40.4% perceived that it is not possible 
 at all for them to use condoms consistently during MSM behaviors. 
 (For the non-anal-sex group, 60.2% perceived that they would have 
 no chance of contracting HIV in the future and 59.2% would have no 
 chance at all of using condoms consistently). Among all MSM respondents, 
 only 25.8% quoted HIV prevention as the most important reason for 
 using condoms (46.2% related to STD prevention, 8.6% for fear of transmitting 
 HIV/STD to sex partners and 23% for other reasons).
In 
 the last 6 months, of the anal sex group, about 19% had had commercial 
 sex behaviors and only 35.7% used condoms consistently; 23% had 3 
 or more non-commercial sex partners (of whom 43% used condoms consistently). 
 In the last episode of MSM anal sex, condoms were used 44% of the 
 time. A total of 26% of the non-users attributed non-availability 
 as the main reason for not using condom. Therefore, condom distribution 
 to MSM is still warranted.
It 
 is hence seen that the practice of unsafe sex among MSM, especially 
 those with anal sex, is quite common. HIV prevention programme seems 
 to have low coverage and needs to be improved. Only a minority of 
 the MSM had tested for HIV antibody and a number of infections may 
 be undetected. Professor Lau points out that Hong Kong workers on 
 HIV prevention should promote HIV testing and carry out a community 
 based HIV surveillance system to monitor the situations. Such programmes 
 have been recommended in many countries but had not been in place 
 in Hong Kong.
Another 
 important finding of the study is that among those MSM who had had 
 sex with men in the last 6 months, it is estimated that about 15.2% 
 had had sex with a man in Mainland China. These cross-border MSM sex-networkers 
 tended to be older and having lower education level; they also tended 
 not to per condom use as a useful means of preventing contracting 
 HIV via anal sex. In the past 6 months, about 26% of these cross-border 
 MSM sex-networkers contracted STD (versus 2.1% for other MSM); 44% 
 had 3 or more male sex partners (versus 21% for other MSM); 81% were 
 bisexual (versus 60% for other MSM). Besides, among those cross-border 
 sex-networkers having anal sex, 75% involved in commercial sex and 
 83.3% did not use condoms when having anal sex in the last 6 months.
Professor 
 Lau said, therefore, HIV prevention in Hong Kong needs to take the 
 Pearl delta region into account. Such mirrors the situation of many 
 people having cross-border heterosexual commercial sex and even intravenous 
 drug use in Mainland China.
In 
 Mainland China, HIV surveillance and prevention work has just gained 
 its momentum in the last 2-3 years. MSM often had unprotected sex 
 and HIV infection may be increasing in this group. It is estimated 
 that about 11% of the over 1 million HIV/AIDS cases in China could 
 be attributed to MSM sexual activities. Professor Lau suggests the 
 Hong Kong should work together with Shenzhen and the adjacent regions 
 to promote HIV testing, prevention and research, so as to control 
 the epidemic.
 References: 
1. 
 Lau JTF, Kim JH, Lau M, Tsui HY. HIV-related behaviors and attitudes 
 among Chinese men who have sex with men in Hong Kong: a population-based 
 study (to be published in Sexually Transmitted Infections) 
link
 2. Lau JTF, Kim JH, Lau M, Tsui HY. Prevalence and risk behaviors 
 of Hong Kong males who seek cross-border same-sex partners in mainland 
 China. Sexually Transmitted Diseases 2004; 31: 568-574.
link
Media 
 may contact Professor Joseph TF Lau, Director of the Centre for Epidemiology 
 and Biostatistics for further details at tel: 9260 1797. 



 
