[title]CUHK's BA Faculty Proposes Ways to Raise The Cost Competitiveness of Hong Kong Businesses[/title]

[date]30 November 2004[/date]


 CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration Survey Proposes Ways 
 to Raise
 The Cost Competitiveness of Hong Kong Businesses 
 
A large-scale survey found that staff quality and the reliability 
 of public facilities are determining factors to the competitiveness 
 of Hong Kong businesses.
The 
 study was conducted by Professor Michael K.Y. Fung, Dr. David L.K. 
 Chow, Professor Francis K.H. Cheung, Professor Michael C.M. Leung 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Department of Decision Sciences 
 and Managerial Economics and Professor Clement K.W. Chow of Lingnan 
 University's Department of Marketing and International Business. Questionnaires 
 were conducted by Statistical Consulting Unit, Department of Management 
 Sciences of the City University of Hong Kong.
The 
 business environment in Hong Kong has been changing rapidly since 
 the Asian financial turmoil in 1997. In particular, there was prolonged 
 deflation from November 1998 to June 2004. Although deflation helps 
 lower production costs, Hong Kong's ranking in competitiveness in 
 general has been falling in the past few years, as reported by different 
 studies.
The 
 objective of this empirical study is to investigate the determining 
 factors and its relevance of the cost competitiveness of Hong Kong 
 businesses, and to make recommendations to the parties involved. Professor 
 Michael K.Y. Fung from the CUHK's Department of Decision Sciences 
 and Managerial Economics and the leading researcher in the study said, 
 "Our research has two major characteristics. First of all, we conduct 
 the first ever survey which stretches from the perspectives of the 
 corporations as compared with various prior studies on Hong Kong's 
 competitiveness that focuses little on the corporations. Secondly, 
 the fact that the service industry comprises the Hong Kong economy 
 is reflected by our 3/4 samples coming from the service industry, 
 such as transportation and logistics, finance and insurance. Most 
 importantly, it is found that the quality of service, instead of cost, 
 is the contributing factor to the competitiveness of corporations."
The 
 research team carried out interviews from June to August in 2004 to 
 investigate how Hong Kong businesses can raise their cost competitiveness. 
 A questionnaire was designed and 442 firms were randomly sampled from 
 five major sectors, including import and export, transportation and 
 logistics, finance and insurance, business service, and manufacturing.
In 
 this study, they investigated the importance of cost relative to other 
 factors when Hong Kong firms were identifying places for business 
 relocation and expansion. Among those respondents who had experience 
 in relocating part of their businesses away from Hong Kong, they considered 
 reliability of communication devices and transportation and logistics, 
 fairness of law enforcement and judiciary system, reliability of electricity 
 supply, and staff quality as important factors in identifying places 
 for business relocation. On the other hand, a relatively larger proportion 
 of respondents considered fuel cost, reliability of fuel supply, water 
 and sewage tariffs, reliability of water supply and product development 
 potential as less important factors.
Apart 
 from examining the past experience of Hong Kong firms' relocation, 
 the study also investigated the firms' future business relocation 
 and expansion decision. According to the survey result, staff quality, 
 market development potential, fairness of law enforcement and judiciary 
 system, property protection and quality of government services were 
 identified as important factors in firms' future business expansion 
 decisions. On the other hand, a larger proportion of respondents considered 
 water and sewage tariffs, fuel cost, reliability of fuel supply, material 
 cost, and reliability of water supply as not important factors.
How 
 do the corporations comment on the business environmental factors 
 in Hong Kong? Professor Michael K.Y. Fung said, "In this study, we 
 identified business environmental factors with which Hong Kong businesses 
 were the most or least satisfied. Of all the factors, a larger proportion 
 of respondents were satisfied with the reliability of electricity 
 supply, communication devices, water supply and transportation and 
 logistics. On the other hand, a larger proportion of respondents were 
 dissatisfied with the rent levels, transportation and logistics fees, 
 quality of government services and salary level."
"In 
 order to analyze the cost structure of business firms in Hong Kong, 
 we investigated what components that had the largest contribution 
 to the total local operating cost. It is found that the top three 
 components of local operation cost were salary and fringe benefits, 
 rent and material cost. Moreover, more than 40 percent of respondents 
 said that communication device fees and charges, electricity cost, 
 water and sewage tariffs, Towngas / LPG and government fees and charges 
 other than water and sewage tariffs and tax only contributed a very 
 small proportion to the total local operating cost," Professor Fung 
 continued.
The 
 study further examined how business firms in Hong Kong ranked different 
 factors as determinants of competitiveness in Hong Kong. Of all the 
 attributes concerned, staff quality was considered as the most important 
 element in determining the success of operation in Hong Kong, followed 
 by the reliability of communication devices, fairness of law enforcement, 
 reliability of electricity supply and salary and fringe benefits. 
 On the other hand, a larger proportion of respondents regarded fuel 
 cost, water and sewage tariffs, reliability of fuel supply, material 
 cost, and reliability of water supply as not important factors.
In 
 conclusion, no matter in determining the competitiveness of Hong Kong 
 or identifying places for business relocation and expansion, staff 
 quality was considered as more important than salary and fringe benefits. 
 Moreover, reliability of public facilities was identified as very 
 important as well, for example, reliability of electricity supply 
 and communication devices were considered more important than their 
 corresponding cost. Professor Fung commented, "We recommend the corporations 
 and the Hong Kong Government contribute more resources on staff training. 
 The Government should maintain the reliability of electricity supply 
 and communication facilities through policies. It should also enforce 
 the fairness of law and judiciary system. With all these measures 
 taken properly, it is hope that the competitiveness of Hong Kong businesses 
 can be raised." 



 
