[title]CUHK No. 1 Again in 2004 MBA Ranking[/title]

 
[date]22 September 2004[/date]


 CUHK No. 1 Again in 2004 MBA Ranking 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is again ranked the top 
 university in East Asia in the business magazine Asia Inc's 
 ranking of "Asia's Best MBA Schools" in 2004. CUHK has won this award 
 for 3 consecutive years.
The 
 survey on "Asia's Best MBA Schools" studied business schools offering 
 full-time MBA programmes. The ranking results were published in Asia 
 Inc's September 2004 issue. In the survey, the business schools 
 are divided into four geographical regions: East Asia, Southeast Asia, 
 South Asia and Australia/New Zealand and are rated on the basis of 
 school and faculty quality, student quality and peer-reputation ranking. 
 CUHK is ranked as the No.1 MBA School in East Asia again.
"CUHK 
 has a large and strong student base and a wide Hong Kong and China 
 network," Asia Inc commented.
"I 
 am most delighted by the results," said Professor Lawrence J. Lau, 
 Vice-Chancellor of the University. "The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong has, for the past 40 years, worked towards excellence in teaching 
 and research. The ranking testifies to the quality of the teaching, 
 learning, and scholarship of the CUHK MBA Programmes, and the recognition 
 we have achieved in the region as a first-rate university offering 
 world-class education. Our achievement is the result of hardwork and 
 dedication of the staff and students of the Faculty of Business Administration, 
 and the support of our alumni and the community at large."
"More 
 and more foreign students have been drawn to our MBA Programmes in 
 the last few years," said Professor Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of CUHK's 
 Faculty of Business Administration. The percentage of non-local full-time 
 MBA students has increased to 76% in the 2004 intake. They come from 
 many places, including Mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea, India, 
 Malaysia, France, Germany, Spain, Holland, Canada and the United States.
To 
 sustain further growth, CUHK will continue to strengthen networks 
 with alumni, corporations and partners on Mainland China.
CUHK's 
 alumni network dates back to 1968. With the support of our alumni, 
 the Faculty has launched an Elite Mentorship Programme in which 32 
 business leaders provides guidance to the full-time MBA students. 
 With our good alumni relations, this summer internship placement was 
 very successful, as Asia Inc. reported, "Prominent companies 
 like Citicorp, Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd, Hong Kong Monetary Authority, 
 Standard and Poor's, Li and Fung Ltd, Hong Kong Jockey Club, Hang Seng 
 Bank, Bank of East Asia and Caltex have offered internship opportunities 
 for CUHK's students."
"More 
 collaborative projects are in the pipelines as expansion north of 
 the border continues to top our agenda," said Professor Lee. Following 
 the fifth intake of students in Beijing for the MBA Programme in Finance 
 in cooperation with the Tsinghua University this year, the first intake 
 of students for the same programme in Shenzhen will take place this 
 month. In addition, the first EMBA Programme in collaboration with 
 Xian Jiaotong University will be offered in the 2004/2005 academic 
 year.
Dr. 
 Victor Fung, Chairman of the Greater Pearl River Business Council, 
 commended CUHK's programmes and business graduates for consistently 
 providing "a hallmark of excellence".
Likewise, 
 CUHK's Executive MBA Programme has consistently received top rankings. 
 It was ranked No. 1 in Asia and 33 worldwide by the US-based magazine 
 BusinessWeek in 2001. The Programme was also ranked the No. 
 1 independent programme in Asia and among the top 20 programmes worldwide 
 by London-based Financial Times for three consecutive years 
 from 2001 to 2003. 
 
 

 
