[title]British Consul-General Stephen Bradley Lectures at CUHK[/title]

[date]1 December 2005[/date]


 British Consul-General Stephen Bradley Lectures at CUHK
 Mr. Stephen Bradley, British Consul-General in Hong Kong delivered a lecture entitled The UK in the EU today at The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
British Consul-General Stephen Bradley provided his personal and thought-provoking overview of the reasons why the EU has become the greatest economic and political success story of the last 50 years. Referencing everything from Lord Patten¡¦s recent book Not Quite The Diplomat to the Douglas Adams¡¦ classic The Hitchhiker¡¦s Guide to the Galaxy, Mr Bradley examined the UK¡¦s past and present membership of the European Union (EU), the 25-nation organisation that is China¡¦s largest trading partner. Mr Bradley notes that the UK is firmly part of Europe and should not be seen as somehow separate when it comes to discerning the European view. While many things differentiate the UK from continental European countries - like driving on the left or playing cricket these do not make us any less European, he says.
Mr Bradley graduated from Balliol College, Oxford University in 1980. After graduation, he spent a year at Fudan University in Shanghai and joined the Afghan/Pakistan Desk, South Asia Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) in 1981. Over the years, Consul-General Bradley has been Second Secretary, Economic, later First Secretary, Chancery in Tokyo (1983-1987); on special unpaid leave as Marketing Director of Guinness Peat Aviation in Hong Kong (1987-1988); on loan to the Hong Kong Government as Deputy Political Adviser (1988-1993); on special unpaid leave to Lloyd George Investment management in Hong Kong as Associate Director (1993-1995); French Desk, Western European Department of FCO (1995); Head of West Indian Atlantic Department of FCO (1996-1997); on loan to New Millennium Experience Company (1998-1999); Director of Trade and Investment Promotion in Paris (1999-2002); Minister, Deputy Head of Mission and Consul-General in Beijing (2002). 
CUHK has the mission of combining tradition and modernity, and bringing together China and the west. To broaden students¡¦ international horizon and to live up to the University¡¦s mission, a series of lectures of ambassadors and diplomats were organized by CUHK. Previously, two lectures were delivered by Mr Yang Wenchang, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC and Mr. James Cunningham, U.S. Consul-General of Hong Kong and Macau. Mr Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan will deliver his lecture on 18 January 2006. 
 Attachment:
Speech by British Consul-General Stephen Bradley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Past Lectures


 
