[title]CU Student wins the 2004 Award of Sanford Yung Scholars Programme[/title]

[date]8 June 2004[/date]


 CU Student wins the 2004 Award of Sanford Yung Scholars Programme
 for Excellence in Accounting Studies 
 
Mr. Sanford Yung, a renowned figure in the accounting profession and 
 former Chairman of Coopers and Lybrand Hong Kong (now known as PricewaterhouseCoopers) 
 established the "Sanford Yung Scholars Programme for Excellence in Accounting 
 Studies" in 2001 for the purpose of encouraging the pursuit of accounting 
 studies in Hong Kong universities and promoting excellence in the accountancy 
 field. In keeping with Mr. Yung's keen interest in helping the development 
 of Accounting in Mainland China, the programme this year has been expanded 
 to include Accountancy students in Beijing and Shanghai universities. 
 The Programme provides three scholarships each year to the most outstanding 
 students in accounting in a local university in the three cities.
The 
 Hong Kong Awardee of the Sanford Yung Scholarship receives a cash award 
 totalling HK$120,000 to cover expenses relating to his/her remaining 
 years' accounting studies in university. Upon the successful completion 
 of the second year's course, the awardee will be sponsored for a summer 
 placement at either (i) PricewaterhouseCoopers London or New York, or 
 (ii) PricewaterhouseCoopers Hong Kong, to be followed by a 10-day study 
 tour visiting selected financial institution(s) overseas. In the last 
 three years, the awardees obtained summer internship with PricewaterhouseCoopers 
 London.
For 
 the 2004 award in Hong Kong, a total of 29 first-year accounting students 
 with excellent academic merits were nominated by the seven local universities. 
 The selection panel consisted of Mr. Sanford Yung, Ms. Georgina Chan, 
 Director of Education and Training of the Hong Kong Society of Accountants, 
 Ms. Florence Yip, Chartered Accountant, Ms. Carrie Yu, Chartered Accountant, 
 Ms. Priscilla Lam, Chartered Accountant, Ms. Amy Yui, Senior Administrator 
 in the academic field, and, Mr. Cameron Sloan, the Director of Human 
 Resources of PricewaterhouseCoopers.
After 
 very thorough consideration on students' performance at the interview, 
 the selection panel is pleased to announce that Mr. Yip Kwan Hon, of 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong, was considered the best candidate 
 to receive the 2004 Scholarship. Mr. Yip impressed the selection panel 
 on his dedication to the accounting profession and his desire for further 
 training overseas. This programme will offer him a summer placement 
 in another commercial city outside Hong Kong. Eventually, it is his 
 wish to pursue a career in the accounting profession.
The 
 presentation ceremony took place on 7 June 2004 at PricewaterhouseCoopers 
 Executive Conference Centre. Mr. Yung said, "I am very pleased that 
 all six short-listed students were academically impressive candidates." 
 Mr. Yung added that he is confident that Mr. Yip will be an asset for 
 the future of accounting in Hong Kong.
Mr. 
 Yung was also impressed by the outstanding performance of the students 
 that he interviewed in Beijing and Shanghai. He is pleased that his 
 scholarship can help the development of Accounting in Mainland China 
 and he is considering the possibility to extend this scholarship programme 
 to other cities in Mainland China in the future. 

 
 
 

 
