[title]Commissioner of Ministry of Foreign Affairs Lectures at Chinese University[/title]

[date]22 September 2006[/date]


Commissioner of Ministry of Foreign Affairs Lectures at Chinese University
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong has invited Mr. Lu Xinhua, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People¡¦s Republic of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to give a lecture on China¡¦s Views on Topical International Issues and Hong Kong¡¦s Role in China¡¦s Diplomacy. Two hundred guests attended the lecture, including CUHK staff and students, and various foreign consuls.
Mr. Lu Xinhua was born in Zhejiang Province in 1951 and graduated from Hangzhou University. In 1974, he joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He assumed the position of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People¡¦s Republic of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in February 2006. Mr. Lu served in the Permanent Mission of the PRC to the United Nations. Between 1988 and 1998, he was assistant to Mr. Qian Qichen, then Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-Premier of the State Council. In 1998-2001, he was Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the PRC to the Republic of Finland. From 2001 to 2006, he had served in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as Ambassador, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs.
CUHK has the mission of combining tradition and modernity, and bringing together China and the west. To broaden students¡¦ international horizon and to live up to the University¡¦s mission, a series of lectures by diplomats were organized by CUHK. Previously, five lectures were delivered by Mr. Yang Wenchang, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC, Mr. James Cunningham, U.S. Consul-General of Hong Kong and Macau, Mr. Stephen Bradley, British Consul-General in Hong Kong, Mr. Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong, and Dr. Volker Stanzel, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to the People¡¦s Republic of China.

 

 
View Past Lectures
 

 
