[title]Professor Lawrence J. Lau assumes office as the Vice-Chancellor of CUHK[/title]

[date]30 June 2004[/date]


 Professor Lawrence J. Lau assumes office as the Vice-Chancellor 
 of CUHK 
 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau will assume the office of the Vice-Chancellor 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong on 1 July 2004, succeeding Professor 
 Ambrose Y C King, who retires on 30 June 2004, as the sixth Vice-Chancellor 
 of the University. Professor Lau is a distinguished and world famous 
 economist. 
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau received his B.S. degree in Physics and Economics, with 
 Great Distinction, from Stanford University in 1964, and his M.A. and 
 Ph.D. degrees in Economics from the University of California at Berkeley 
 in 1966 and 1969 respectively. He joined the faculty of the Department 
 of Economics, Stanford University, in 1966 and was promoted to Professor 
 of Economics in 1976. In 1992, he was named the first Kwoh-Ting Li Professor 
 of Economic Development at Stanford University. From 1992 to 1996, he 
 served as a Co-Director of the Asia/Pacific Research Center, Stanford 
 University. From 1997 to 1999, he served as the Director of the Stanford 
 Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR), Stanford University. 
 His specialized fields are Economic Development, Economic Growth, and 
 the Economies of East Asia, including China. He developed one of the 
 first econometric models of China, in 1966, and has continued to revise 
 and update his model since then. 
Professor 
 Lau has been elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa, a member of Tau Beta 
 Pi, a Fellow of the Econometric Society, an Academician of Academia 
 Sinica, a Member of the Conference for Research in Income and Wealth, 
 an Overseas Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge, England, an Honorary 
 Member of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and an Academician 
 of the International Eurasian Academy of Sciences. He has been awarded 
 the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences, honoris causa, by the 
 Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. He has been a John Simon 
 Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellow and a Fellow of the Center for 
 Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. He is the author or editor 
 of five books and more than one hundred and sixty articles and notes 
 in professional publications. 
Professor 
 Lau is active in both academic and professional services. He is an Honorary 
 Research Fellow of the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, Shanghai; 
 an Honorary Professor of the Institute of Systems Science, Chinese Academy 
 of Sciences, Jilin University, Nanjing University, People's University, 
 Shantou University, Southeast University, and the School of Economics 
 and Management, Tsinghua University, Beijing; an International Adviser, 
 National Bureau of Statistics, People's Republic of China and a member 
 of the Board of Directors of the Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International 
 Scholarly Exchange, Taipei. 
As the 
 Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Professor Lau 
 will lead the University into its fifth decade of development as a leading 
 comprehensive research university in the region. Building on the University's 
 academic and research strengths and its renowned and time-honoured traditions 
 which are enhanced by its unique College system, the University values 
 its roots in Chinese cultural heritage and aims at fostering the bilingual 
 and multicultural dimensions of quality education, scholarly output 
 and contribution to the community that consistently meet standards of 
 excellence. Professor Lau will, with support from various sectors of 
 the community, work to enhance the University's position in the international 
 arena and further strengthen links with other distinguished institutions 
 of higher education and centres of excellence worldwide. 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, New Vice-Chancellor of 
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 
 

 
