[title]SHKP joins hands with CUHK to launch The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures[/title]

[date]21 September 2004[/date]


 SHKP joins hands with CUHK to launch
 The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures 
 
 
With a generous donation from Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP), The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and SHKP will jointly launch 
 The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures. 
 Under this programme, Nobel Laureates will be invited to Hong Kong 
 each year to deliver public lectures, meet with scholars and professionals 
 in the education and commercial sectors, and share their success stories 
 with the public. This will be the first year in the series, with two 
 Nobel Laureates in Economic Sciences, Professor A Michael Spence, 
 Nobel Laureate in 2001, and Professor Sir James A Mirrlees, Nobel 
 Laureate in 1996, each delivering lectures in The Sun Hung Kai Properties 
 Nobel Laureates Lectures.
The 
 aim of the programme is to promote the discovery and dissemination 
 of knowledge, professional and entrepreneurial expertise, as well 
 as scholarly pursuits and contributions to humanity and society in 
 the areas recognized by Nobel Prizes. Through the Nobel Laureates 
 Distinguished Lectures, top-notch scholars who have made vital contributions 
 will be invited to the territory, bringing the Hong Kong public to 
 the best of scholarship and contributions to humanity and society.
Dr 
 Raymond Kwok, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of SHKP and Professor 
 Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, hosted a ceremony today to 
 announce the Lectures. Professor Lau believed the lectures would be 
 conducive to the internationalization of CUHK and Hong Kong. He said, 
 "This distinguished lecture series will act as a bridge bringing a 
 larger number of world-class scholars to the University on a regular 
 basis, who will offer valuable advice for our teaching and research 
 activities, broaden the perspective of our teachers and students, 
 and help this institution attain the highest international standards 
 on all fronts. Through them, The Chinese University will also gain 
 greater access to opportunities of collaboration with teaching and 
 research centres of excellence worldwide, thereby contributing its 
 share to the advancement of human knowledge." Professor Lau expressed 
 his confidence that the Lectures will be well received by the public, 
 and his deep gratitude to SHKP for their generous support.
Dr 
 Raymond Kwok said, "We are now in the 21st Century; the age of a knowledge-based 
 economy that emphasizes continual learning and the pursuit of knowledge 
 to maintain our economic development. If Hong Kong is to remain an 
 international financial centre, it is first and foremost necessary 
 to embrace economic globalisation and ensure that we broaden our horizons, 
 preserve our international dimension and keep pace with new advances. 
 With these aims in mind, Sun Hung Kai Properties is delighted to be 
 collaborating with The Chinese University of Hong Kong to present 
 this Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures. Our hope is that our 
 guest Nobel Laureates will bring the people of Hong Kong to the forefront 
 of scholarship by sharing their wisdom and valuable insights."
SHKP 
 has always been committed to community service and education, especially 
 in nurturing and enhancing young talent. It has set up numerous education 
 programmes and scholarships.
Professor 
 A Michael Spence is a Professor Emeritus of Stanford University in 
 the USA. He earned his BA Summa cum Laude from Princeton University 
 and was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford. He later 
 gained a PhD from Harvard University and has served as a professor 
 at both Harvard and Stanford. He was Dean of the Faculty of Arts and 
 Sciences at Harvard University from 1984 to 1990. He was Dean of Stanford's 
 Graduate School of Business and became Professor Emeritus in 1999. 
 Professor Spence is a founder of signaling in economics. His pioneering 
 model found applications in many fields, in particular corporate governance. 
 Professor Spence will deliver a lecture entitled "Economic Growth, 
 the Internet and the Evolving Structure of Global Markets: Opportunities 
 and Challenges".
Professor 
 Sir James A Mirrlees is currently Distinguished Professor-at-Large 
 at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. He obtained his PhD in Economics 
 from Cambridge University and has served as professor at both Cambridge 
 and Oxford since then. Sir James is a pioneer in information asymmetry 
 in economics. His work provides practical solutions to problems in 
 insurance markets, credit markets, auctions, the internal organization 
 of firms, wage structure, tax systems, social insurance, political 
 institutions, and so on. Sir James also has a profound interest in 
 and deep knowledge of the development of the Chinese economy. He will 
 share his insight at his lecture entitled "Ageing and Pensions in 
 the Chinese Economies". 
Attachedments:
 - Brief biographical sketches and photos 
 of Professor A Michael Spence
 - Brief biographical sketches and photos 
 of Professor Sir James A Mirrlees
 Photos of the Launching Ceremony of The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel 
 Laureates Distinguished Lectures:


 
 

 
