[title]Latest Development of Refractive Surgery[/title]


[date]10 May 2005[/date]

Latest 
 Development of Refractive Surgery 
 
Refractive surgery has come a long way since the first sighted 
 eye excimer laser surgery was performed in the United States in 
 1987. There are many options for the correction of refractive errors 
 today and these include the use of the excimer laser platform - 
 like photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), laser in situ keratomileusis 
 (LASIK), laser subepithelial keratomileusis (LASEK), and EpiLASIK; 
 and those that require the placement of an intraocular lens inside 
 the eye. Each procedure, however, has pros and cons and the best 
 procedure for a patient is ideally decided after a detailed examination 
 of the eye by the surgeon. 
Of 
 these many options, LASIK is currently the most popular procedure 
 and involves the creation of a thin corneal flap, after which the 
 laser treatment is performed on the exposed corneal tissue. Because 
 of the flap there is very little postoperative discomfort, with 
 early recovery of visual function. Prof. Dennis Shun-Chiu Lam, Chairman 
 of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences (DOVS) of The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) said, "Refractive surgery 
 (LASIK) has advanced to such a stage that interested individuals 
 can consider it, but the decision requires a thorough assessment 
 of the pros and cons." 
Although 
 recent advances in laser technology allow good safety and accuracy, 
 the cutting of a corneal flap can sometimes result in problems. 
 The newly introduced femtosecond laser can be used to cut the corneal 
 flap and is thought to have a lesser incidence of problems during 
 flap creation. Prof. S. K. Rao stated, "Experience with this exciting 
 technology is still accumulating. While this laser may reduce the 
 chance of problems during flap creation, its ability to reduce other 
 interface problems is still being evaluated. Due to cost and other 
 considerations, the gold standard for flap creation around the world 
 is still using the automated microkeratome - with the use of a surgical 
 steel blade." 
Another 
 approach to performing excimer laser surgery without cutting a corneal 
 flap is the use of a diluted alcohol solution to weaken the attachment 
 between the most superficial layer of the cornea - the epithelium, 
 and the rest of the corneal tissue - to allow laser ablation. This 
 is called LASEK and this modification also allows treatment in eyes 
 with thin corneas and those with high myopia that are not treatable 
 with conventional LASIK surgery. Dr. Arthur Chak-Kwan Cheng mentioned, 
 "This technique provides additional safety as this flap can be regenerated 
 in about 1 week even if torn or distorted. A more recent technique, 
 EpiLASIK uses a microkeratome design that is able to create a flap 
 of epithelium and therefore avoids cutting a corneal flap." 
The 
 CUHK and the Hospital Authority (HA) have organized a special service 
 for those who have a medical indication for refractive surgery (LASIK) 
 - severe myopia (8 diopters or more); anisometropia, or a difference 
 in refractive error more than 3 diopters between the two eyes; and 
 those who have had past corneal surgery such as cornea transplant. 
 Suitable patients can go to their respective HA eye teams for suitable 
 information, or call our telephone hotline 2632 3316 or 2637 1343 
 during office hours. 
 
 



 
