[title]CUHK Launches New Elitist Mentorship Programme For MBA Students[/title]

[date]10 October 2003[/date]


 CUHK Launches New Elitist Mentorship Programme For MBA Students 
 
 
The new class of MBA students at The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 will be learning their ropes, first hand, from some of the movers and 
 shakers of the business community under a well-designed elitist Mentorship 
 Programme.
Some 
 32 business leaders have committed to be mentors, and the list (attached) 
 reads like a mini Who's Who of Hong Kong's blue chip companies - Chairman, 
 CEOs, Managing Directors of multinational and home-grown companies as 
 well as a Permanent Secretary of the Hong Kong SAR Government.
What 
 is unique about this programme is not just the impressive credentials 
 of the mentors themselves, but the fact that they are all alumni of 
 the Chinese University's MBA and EMBA Programmes.
"I am 
 really excited about this programme," said Armstrong Lee, Managing Director 
 of Worldwide Human Capital Consulting Limited and principal architect 
 of this Mentorship Programme. "We have so many outstanding CUMBA alumni 
 in the top echelons of management in the public and private sectors. 
 It's high time to get these Star Alumni to lend a hand to our MBA students 
 in their academic, career as well as personal development," he said.
"The 
 Mentorship Programme is a crucial complement to classroom teaching as 
 it brings a real-life dimension to the MBA Programme. We are committed 
 to helping CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration nurture future 
 business leaders and this Mentorship Programme provides them a great 
 opportunity to be coached by current leaders."
"I am 
 particularly touched to see the large number of Star Alumni who are 
 willing to add this responsibility to their already crowded schedules," 
 he added. "It is our contribution to our alma mater and a great way 
 to strengthen the bond of the CUMBA family."
Mr. 
 Antony Hung (MBA Class of 84), Managing Director and Head of Merrill 
 Lynch's Debt Markets Group in the Asia Pacific Region, shares these 
 sentiments. "As an alumnus of The Chinese University, I am proud to 
 support the next generation of business leaders coming through its MBA 
 course by actively taking part in the Mentorship Programme," he said. 
 "For me this is very much a case of giving something back to an institution 
 that played a significant role in my personal development." 



 
