[title]Just Focus on the Job in Hand, Says Henry Tang[/title]

[date]6 July 2003[/date]


 Just Focus on the Job in Hand, Says Henry Tang
 
For someone born with a silver spoon in his mouth who has had smooth 
 sailing all his life, how does it feel like being in the firing line, 
 as part of arguably the most unpopular administration in Hong Kong's 
 history?
Fine, Mr. Henry Tang assured 
 a full house of students and alumni of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong's EMBA and MBA Programmes. The occasion was the EMBA "Talking to 
 CEOs" programme, an initiative co-organized by the EMBA Programme and 
 RTHK. Co-hosts were Professor Leo Sin of CUHK's Marketing Programme 
 and Mr. Robert Chow of RTHK.
Every job has its own 
 challenges, he stressed. After 25 years running his family business, 
 he was prepared to take a few years off to contribute to Hong Kong, 
 like a good citizen. Now, after a year on the job as Secretary of Commerce, 
 Industry and Technology, he has come to appreciate, at a deeper level, 
 that Government should not be judged on one dimension. He has also discovered 
 a lot of good, committed people in Government.
In fact, there are certain 
 similarities between a corporate CEO and a Cabinet Secretary. Both have 
 shareholders and employees. Just as shareholders have expectations for 
 returns on investment, so citizens have expectations from Government. 
 In both cases, however, the success of the organization hinges on striking 
 the right balance and working as a team.
Turning to the prevailing 
 Government-bashing climate, Mr. Tang said an effective way to improve 
 this situation is to make policies as transparent as possible. A long-term 
 vision, the will to persevere in this vision, tolerance and recognition 
 of limitations are essential ingredients to the winning formula.
His father's advice to 
 him - don't push too hard on profit, do what is right by your employees 
 and they will walk that extra mile for you - is the guiding principle 
 for Mr. Tang in his Government role. Indeed, this is the only principle 
 he lives by, he stressed.
Hong Kong has a unique 
 blend of the eastern and western culture, and technology will play a 
 role in the future direction of Hong Kong's economic development.
Mr. Tang is not convinced 
 that the burst of the internet bubble means the end of the technology 
 revolution. In fact, technological development has continued unabated 
 but has taken a more rational direction. Hong Kong, with 98 per cent 
 broadband penetration, is well-positioned to take advantage of this.
The Science Park and the 
 Cyberport are both intended as catalysts to spur technological development. 
 In addition, the campus-like environment of the Cyberport is conducive 
 to innovation, and will hopefully attract the IT and multimedia industry 
 as well as provide common-use multimedia equipment for Hong Kong's SMEs.
Hong Kong should take 
 a macro view, and think beyond its geographical boundaries, Mr. Tang 
 urged. China has abundant technological and other resources which are 
 complementary to Hong Kong, such as herbal medicine. Equally important 
 is the need for Hong Kong to recognize its own competitive advantage 
 rather than trying to copy other cities.
He believes that Government's 
 job is to provide a platform to facilitate private sector initiatives, 
 such as the rule of law, a good financial system, protection for intellectual 
 property and assistance with overseas promotions.
How about the growing 
 trend of professionals seeking employment on the Mainland - would this 
 become a brain-drain?
Not to worry, replied 
 Mr. Tang. There are also many Mainland talents who want to come to Hong 
 Kong. It is important to keep doors open.
His advice to entrepreneur 
 hopefuls is that the business they contemplate must have one or more 
 of the following:
 - innovative
 - high growth
 - technology-related
Technology is an inevitable 
 part of business. The garment industry, which was branded a "sunset" 
 industry 20 years ago, has since, with the aid of technology, turned 
 into a highly-innovative industry.
Another crucial factor 
 is determination and perseverance. He reminded his audience that Hong 
 Kong is a mobile society, not bound by class system as in some countries, 
 where distinction exists even between "old money" and "new money". In 
 Hong Kong, success is recognized and rewarded.
Before his recent appointment 
 as Financial Secretary, Mr. Henry Tang was Secretary for Commerce, Industry 
 and Technology. He has been a member of the Executive Council since 
 1997. He served as a member of the Legislative Council for seven years 
 from 1991 to 1998. He has also served extensively on various government 
 boards and public bodies, including the Trade Development Council, Town 
 Planning Board, University Grants Committee and Council of the City 
 University of Hong Kong.
Prior to joining the Government 
 in 2002, Mr. Tang was a leading industrialist in Hong Kong. He was Chairman 
 of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries (1995-2001). He was also a 
 Committee Member of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and a 
 Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. 

 
