[title]Canadian Minister of State for Public Health Discussed with CUHK Public Health Experts[/title]

[date]10 August 2005[/date]


Canadian 
 Minister of State for Public Health Discussed with 
 CUHK Public Health Experts On Risk Communication and Future Collaboration
The 
 Hon Dr Carolyn Bennett, Canadian Minister of State for Public Health, 
 visited the School of Public Health of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong (CUHK) on Monday, 8 August 2005, to exchange post-SARS lessons 
 learned and discuss preparedness strategies for future epidemics. 
 Dr. Bennett and the Canadian Delegation visited Hong Kong, Vietnam 
 and Thailand during 7-12 August. Dr. Bennett will be attending the 
 final two days of the World Health Organization's (WHO) 6th Global 
 Conference on Health Promotion in Bangkok. 
Discussion 
 with senior public health doctors and clinicians at CUHK enabled Minister 
 Bennett and her colleagues Ms Yasmin Ratansi, Member of Parliament, 
 Dr Paul Gully, Deputy Chief Public Health Officer, Public Health Agency 
 of Canada and Mr Michael Spowart, Chief of Staff, Office of the Minister 
 of State (Public Health) to discuss on the preparedness for future 
 threats such as avian flu as well as the long term impact of SARS 
 to healthcare professions and the public. 
Discussants 
 at the meeting, which extended through the afternoon and a dinner 
 hosted by Professor Fok Tai-fai, Dean of Medicine, CUHK included Dr 
 EK Yeoh, Honorary Professor, School of Public Health, CUHK and former 
 Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the HKSAR Government, Dr 
 Thomas Tsang, Consultant Communicable Medicine, Centre for Health 
 Protection, Department of Health of the HKSAR Government, Dr Fung 
 Hong, Honorary Professor, School of Public Health, CUHK and Cluster 
 Chief Executive (NTEC) of the Hospital Authority, Professor Kenneth 
 Young, Acting Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sian Griffiths, Director, 
 School of Public Health, Professor Lee Shui-shan, Acting Director 
 of Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases and other Faculty members 
 of The CUHK. Opportunities for continuing dialogue and for strengthening 
 existing and future collaboration were identified in health protection. 
 Discussants shared the experiences on risk communication and its importance 
 especially during the outbreaks. 
The 
 School of Public Health and the Office of the Minister of State (Public 
 Health) are collaborating in the public health genetics initiative, 
 an international group about the genome and society. Aspects of this 
 public health initiative include understanding the population impacts 
 of genetic screening, use of genetics for developing vaccines for 
 prevention and future research developments. 
 
The Hon Carolyn Bennett, the Canadian 
 Minister of State (Public Health) 
 exchanged views with Professor Fok Tai-fai, Dean of Medicine, CUHK 
 on 
 opportunities for strengthening existing and future collaboration 
 in health protection and research
The Hon Carolyn Bennett, the Canadian 
 Minister of State (Public Health) (second from the left) visited the 
 School of Public Health of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and 
 met Professor Kenneth Young, Acting Vice-Chancellor (first from the 
 left) and Professor Sian Griffiths, Director of School of Public Health 
 (centre of the front row) and other faculty members
 



 
