[title]40th Anniversary Celebration of the School of Continuing Studies, CUHK Commences[/title]

[date]12 March 2005[/date]


40th Anniversary Celebration of the School of Continuing Studies, 
 CUHK Commences 
 
The 40th Anniversary Celebration of the School of Continuing Studies 
 (SCS), The Chinese University of Hong Kong was kicked off by the Opening 
 Ceremony on 12 March 2005 attended by over a hundred guests and thousands 
 of visitors. Hosting a series of activities to celebrate its 40th 
 Anniversary this year, SCS will continue to contribute to society 
 and further its commitment to education.
Held 
 at New Town Plaza in Shatin, the Opening Ceremony was officiated by 
 Mr Chu Zhi Nong, Director General of Education, Science and Technology 
 Department of the Liaison Office of The Central People's Government 
 in the HKSAR, and Professor Rance P L Lee, Chairman of the Advisory 
 Board of Continuing Studies of CUHK.
Professor 
 Rance P L Lee stated, 'In recent years, it is common for Hong Kong 
 people to seek continuing education and increase their 'assets'. On 
 top of their quest for knowledge and awards, I hope that Hong Kong 
 people will develop well-rounded personalities and enjoy the process 
 of learning and enrichment of lives. In the past four decades, SCS 
 has been committed to fostering whole-person development and life-long 
 learning. It has served learners of different age groups, backgrounds 
 and with different interests. As society rapid changes, SCS has an 
 increasingly important role to play in helping community members achieve 
 balanced lives.'
Dr 
 Victor S K Lee, Director, said, 'SCS has established an important 
 milestone today. In the last forty years, the School has served the 
 community and has fostered continuing and professional education. 
 As SCS enters its fifth decade, we will uphold our motto of 'Life-long 
 Learning for Life-long Success'. Dedicated to our vision of fostering 
 life-long education and whole-person development, and progressing 
 with changes in local and global learning needs, we will continue 
 to deliver top-notch educational services and contribute to the progress 
 of Hong Kong and neighbouring regions.
Ms 
 Leonie Ki, Managing Director of New World China Enterprises Projects 
 Limited and seasoned advertising practitioner and writer, shared her 
 experience studying at SCS. 'Aspiring to improve my Chinese and English 
 skills, I took the Advanced Certificate Programme in Translation at 
 the Department of Extramural Studies, now SCS. Those three years were 
 an important milestone in my life. The Director Mr T C Lai and other 
 former instructors were top-notch translators and experts in art and 
 literature. I was glad that I had the opportunity to learn from these 
 world-class translation experts. The experience had helped me tremendously 
 in my quest for knowledge and in my career. The fact that I have become 
 a writer has much to do with their teachings and my learning. I am 
 the product of internationalisation. To maintain its competitiveness 
 as a world-class city, Hong Kong needs to emphasise trilingualism 
 and biliteracy.'
Mr 
 Pang Yuk Wing, Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Bank 
 of East Asia, graduated from the Certificate Programme in Creative 
 Photography. 'Since graduating from the Programme at SCS more than 
 a decade ago, I have held four solo photography exhibitions, and have 
 shot portraits for many high-ranking officials and university lecturers. 
 With a passion for photography, I have made friends with classmates 
 from different walks of life. Despite our differences in careers and 
 backgrounds, we are close friends that share a common interest in 
 photography. SCS has the best instructors. Mr T C Lai, the former 
 Director, is himself an expert in literature and art,' Mr Pang remarked.
Ms 
 Cheung Po Wah, news anchor, was the Master of Ceremonies at the Opening 
 Ceremony. The Ceremony was followed by Brain Gym and Paper-cutting 
 Art Presentation. SCS will continue to host the 'Life-long Learning 
 for Life-long Success' Exhibition at New Town Plaza in Shatin on 13 
 and 14 March 2005. Apart from featuring various programme offerings, 
 there will be Chinese Music Performance, Qi Gong, Seminar on Photographic 
 Techniques, and 3D Character Animation Automaticity etc.
SCS 
 will be hosting a series of celebratory events between March and December. 
 Such includes Healthy Living Series, Mobile Game Competition, Seminar 
 on JavaTM Programme Technique, Art Exhibition, Students Singing Contest, 
 Music Performance, Art and Culture Forums, Business Leaders Forums, 
 and the 40th Anniversary Banquet.
Founded 
 in 1965, the Department of Extramural Studies of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong became the School of Continuing Studies in 1994. Initially 
 offering general short courses, SCS now offers programmes at Certificate, 
 Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Higher Diploma, Undergraduate, and Post-graduate 
 levels. Having developed into a comprehensive academic institution, 
 SCS offers a wide variety of quality programmes that spans across 
 the disciplines of Art, Music and The Humanities, Business and Management, 
 Computer Science and Information Technology, Health Care and Medical Sciences, 
 Languages and Translation, Social Sciences, Disciplinary Forces and Security 
 Studies. 
SCS 
 launched subdegree programmes in 2001. Starting from the 2005 / 2006 
 academic year, SCS will accept applications from mainland Chinese 
 and southeast Asian students for Higher Diploma programmes. In addition, 
 SCS offers in-house training to the public and private sectors, as 
 well as provides professional training to Mainland Chinese senior 
 government officials and administrators. Joint programmes are developed 
 with prominent Mainland Chinese and overseas universities. 
In 
 the past four decades, many outstanding alumni of SCS have contributed 
 to the society. Mr Kan Tai-keung, recipient of the World's Outstanding 
 Chinese Designer award, completed the first cohort of the Diploma 
 Programme in Commercial Design. Other outstanding alumni who graduated 
 from the Diploma Programme in Film Making include the well-known movie 
 expert Mr Alfred Cheung, and Mr Takkie Yeung Yat Tak, a nominee at 
 the Golden Horse Awards. 
For 
 more details regarding the 40th Anniversary Celebration of the School 
 of Continuing Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, please 
 visit the 40th Anniversary Website of SCS at www.scs.cuhk.edu.hk/40years. 
 Interested parties may contact the School by sending email to anniversary@webmail.scs.edu.hk. 
 
from 
 left to right:
 Ms Cheung Po Wah, Master of Ceremonies
 Dr Daniel K C Shao, Executive Director, Van Yu Trading Co. Ltd.
 Mr Terence C W Chan, Bursar of CUHK 
 Mr Pang Yuk Wing, Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Bank 
 of East Asia
 Mr Chu Zhi Nong, Director General of Education, Science and Technology 
 Department of the Liaison Office of The Central People's Government 
 in the HKSAR
 Dr Victor S K Lee, Director of SCS
 Professor Rance P L Lee, Chairman of the Advisory Board of Continuing 
 Studies of CUHK
 Mr T C Lai, former Director of SCS and current President of Hok Hoi 
 Library
 Ms Leonie Ki, Managing Director of New World China Enterprises Projects 
 Limited
 Professor Y S Leung, Head of Chung Chi College
 Mr Jacob S K Leung, University Secretary
 ( signifies members of the Advisory Board of Continuing Studies) 
 



 
