[title]Business schools on three continents launch international undergraduate program[/title]

[date]27 October 2004[/date]


 Business schools on three continents launch international undergraduate 
 program 
 
HONG KONG - The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), The University 
 of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill's Kenan-Flagler Business School, 
 and Copenhagen Business School (CBS) are partnering to launch a pioneering 
 international program in undergraduate business.
The 
 schools, each recognized as among the very best in its region, will 
 offer the innovative Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education 
 (GLOBE) program. GLOBE students from CUHK, UNC and CBS will:
- 
 Study together at the campuses in Chapel Hill, Hong Kong and Copenhagen
 - Learn about international business from expert faculty at all three 
 schools 
 - Build and use teamwork and leadership skills
 - Extend their learning beyond the schools' borders through trips 
 to corporations in Brussels, Berlin, Shanghai, Tokyo, Washington, 
 D.C. and Research Triangle Park, N.C. 
 - Collaborate in their learning as members of virtual teams.
"There 
 is a need to break through the traditional model of business curriculum 
 to extend the learning process and experience beyond national borders," 
 said Dean T. S. Lee of the CUHK Faculty of Business Administration. 
 "Through GLOBE, we will guide our students through the dynamic landscape 
 of a convergent market place where international companies engage 
 in fierce competition around the world. Increasingly, Asian influence 
 in the world stage, both economically and politically, can no longer 
 be ignored by multinational companies vying for global dominance. 
 CUHK business professors are well placed to contribute their expertise 
 in Asian-related issues to the GLOBE teaching curriculum. Together 
 with our counterparts at UNC and CBS, a truly international team of 
 faculty members will challenge our students, broaden their horizon 
 and embolden them to think and act with a global mindset."
"GLOBE 
 is an innovation in business education for undergraduate students," 
 said UNC Kenan-Flagler Dean Steve Jones. "It goes far beyond the traditional 
 undergraduate exchange program and adds first hand-exposure to foreign 
 business operations and cultures. Students will develop a comprehensive 
 global perspective by visiting nine locations in five different countries. 
 And this globally dispersed and diverse class of undergraduates from 
 some of the world's best business schools will become a network that 
 each of them can rely upon in years to come."
"GLOBE 
 fits perfectly with Copenhagen Business School's strategic vision 
 to train graduates who are competitive in the international job market 
 and develop new research-based knowledge in partnership with companies 
 and other institutions," said Ole Stenvinkel Nilsson, Dean of the 
 CBS Economics Faculty. "Our partnership with UNC and CUHK underscores 
 the importance we attach to partnerships, and demonstrates our commitment 
 to internationalizing our academic environment. It is an important 
 step forward in our internationalization process, and we look forward 
 to welcoming the new program's students in Copenhagen. We are convinced 
 that GLOBE will be a stimulating and challenging experience for all 
 involved."
The 
 first GLOBE students will be selected for the three-year programs 
 at CUHK and CBS in fall 2005 and into UNC's two-year undergraduate 
 program in fall 2006.
Students 
 will spend the fall semester of their junior year at their home institutions, 
 where they will participate on virtual teams for an introduction to 
 international business.
CBS 
 will host students from all schools for the spring semester of their 
 junior year for classes in European business strategy and trips to 
 corporations in Brussels and Berlin.
During 
 the summer of their junior year, GLOBE students will study at CUHK, 
 where they will take courses in Asian business and marketing and visit 
 companies in Shanghai and Tokyo.
They 
 will study at UNC in the fall semester of their senior year and take 
 study trips to Washington, D.C. and Research Triangle Park. Their 
 U.S. studies will focus on new ventures and entrepreneurship. They 
 will return to their home institutions for the spring semester of 
 their senior year to complete their undergraduate degrees.
The 
 GLOBE program will be officially launched Oct. 27 at the annual Partnership 
 in International Management (PIM) Conference in Hong Kong. The GLOBE 
 program is an example of the creative thinking in the international 
 academic community about ways to educate and collaborate across continents. 
 Improved technologies are enabling virtual learning environments for 
 international student teams and collaboration among international 
 schools and universities. CUHK, UNC Kenan-Flagler and CBS are members 
 of PIM, which is actively encouraging this kind of initiative.
For 
 information about the GLOBE partner schools, visit www.cuhk.hk/en, 
 www.kenan-flagler.unc.edu and www.cbs.dk. 
Contacts:
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong: Prof. Gordon Cheung, Associate 
 Dean, Faculty of Business Administration, (852) 2609-7778, gordon@baf.msmail.cuhk.edu.hk
 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: Mr. Mark Scullion, Associate 
 Director of Global Programs, UNC Kenan-Flagler, (919) 962-3750, mark_scullion@unc.edu
 Copenhagen Business School: Mr. Ole Stromgren, MA, Cand. Mag. Senior 
 University Instructor, (45) 3815-3167, oes.ikl@cbs.dk 




 
