[title]JLGIS and U S Geological Survey's Earth Resources Observation Systems Data Center Signed Letter of Intent to Enhance Cooperation[/title]

[date]19 November 2004[/date]


 JLGIS and US Geological Survey's Earth Resources Observation Systems 
 Data Center
 Signed Letter of Intent to Enhance Cooperation 
 
The Joint Laboratory for GeoInformation Science (JLGIS) of The Chinese 
 Academy of Sciences and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, signed 
 a Letter of Intent with the United States Geological Survey (USGS)'s 
 Earth Resources Observation Systems (EROS) Data Center on 13 November 
 2004 to encourage cooperation between the centers of excellence in 
 areas of remote sensing, geographic information systems, information 
 technology, and data archive and management.
Established 
 in 1879, the USGS has been a world-leading organization that provides 
 the US and the world with the science needed to make important decisions 
 and safeguard society. The USGS EROS Data Center, as one of the organizations 
 within the Geography science discipline of the USGS, is the world's 
 leading and largest civilian archive center of aerial and satellite 
 remote sensing data, well known for its excellent data management 
 and distribution and research and applications in geographical and 
 environmental science.
The 
 JLGIS was established in 1997 by the Chinese Academy of Sciences and 
 the Chinese University to promote the linkage between China's GeoInformation 
 science and technology and elsewhere in the world. The mission of 
 the JLGIS is to be a Center-of-Excellence for conducting research, 
 academic exchange and training in the region. Recently through the 
 support Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong, and the China Central Government, 
 the JLGIS, is building a satellite receiving station on CUHK campus, 
 and has established a Remote Sensing Center at the CUHK. These activities 
 bring the opportunity to promote exchanges with other organizations 
 and universities world-wide in remote sensing and GeoInformation science.
Ms. 
 Barbara Ryan, Associate Director for Geography of USGS, Mr. Jay Feuquay, 
 USGS's Program Coordinator for Land Remote Sensing, Mr. Larry Pettinger, 
 Remote Sensing Scientist of USGS, Dr. Bryan Bailey, Remote Sensing 
 Scientist of EROS Data Center, and Mr. John Faundeen, Archivist of 
 USGS EROS Data Center, visited CUHK and attended the signing ceremony. 
 Professor Lin Hui of JLGIS signed the LOI with Mr Feuquay. Also attending 
 the ceremony were Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice Chancellor of CUHK, 
 Mr. Jacob Leung, University Secretary, Professor Leung Yuen Sang, 
 Head of Chung Chi College, Professor Leung Yee, Dean, Faulty of Social 
 Science, Professor Xu Yangsheng, Chairman, Department of Automation 
 and Computer-Aided Engineering, Professor Tsou Jin Yeu from the Department 
 of Architecture, Professor FUNG Tung from the Department of Geography 
 and Resource Management and Professors Shao Yun and Yang Limin from 
 JLGIS. 
JLGIS 
 and US Geological Survey's Earth Resources Observation Systems (EROS) 
 Data Center signed a Letter of Intent to promote future cooperation. 
 
Prof 
 Lin Hui, Director of JLGIS and Mr Jay Feuquay, USGS Program Coordinator 
 for Land Remote Sensing, signed the LOI.
Prof 
 Lin Hui toasted with Prof Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK 
 and Ms Barbara Ryan, Associate Director for Geography of USGS. 
  
 


 
