[title]Diagnosis and Treatment of Heart Failure[/title]

[date]19 February 2004[/date]


 Diagnosis and Treatment of Heart Failure - A New Horizon 
 
For the past 10 years the Division of Cardiology of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong has been in the forefront of research and new therapies 
 for heart failure, cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) being one 
 of them. Recent studies have shown encouraging results for this therapy. 
 The Division of Cardiology is now employing cutting edge technology 
 in echocardiography for early and accurate diagnosis of heart failure 
 and to predict which patient group(s) will have the best response to 
 CRT, which will be a major step forward in treatment for the disease.
Modern 
 societies are characterised by raising living standards, lengthening 
 life span and changes in diets (high calories, fat, and salt) and lifestyles 
 such as smoking and lack of exercise. Diabetes, obesity, hypertension 
 and coronary artery diseases are the consequences and these disease 
 processes will lead to damage to the heart muscle and the clinical condition 
 of heart failure. In every region of the world heart failure is common 
 and increasing. In Hong Kong there has been on average 10% increase 
 in hospital admissions for heart failure every year. In 2001, the hospital 
 admission for heart failure in HA hospitals was 14,000, which represented 
 a more than two-fold increase when compared with 6,000 in year 1997.
Heart 
 failure, or the heart cannot pump out blood effectively to match the 
 body's demands, will cause a substantial fall in quality of life with 
 symptoms of breathlessness on mild exertion, swelling of the legs and 
 body, and fatigue. Patients may lose ability to perform daily tasks 
 and to work. The mortality of heart failure is high, worse than many 
 cancers. The 3-year mortality for heart failure in general is 30-35%, 
 while for severe patients, it is as high as 40-50%. At the Prince of 
 Wales Hospital, the major teaching hospital of CUHK and one of the recognized 
 centres in the world for leading medical research in CRT, 61 patients 
 have received CRT and been followed up for 3.5 years. This treatment 
 involves a new technology of implanting 3 pacing electrodes (instead 
 of 1 or 2 in convention treatment) to different chambers of the heart 
 to improve the heart function. The survival rate is 85% compared with 
 60% for patients with severe heart failure without this therapy. Patients 
 also reported significant improvement of exercise capacity and echocardiography 
 showed improvement of cardiac function.
While 
 the current criteria for determining the suitability of CRT are very 
 restrictive and not sensitive, the Division of Cardiology has employed 
 cutting edge technology in echocardiography to diagnose and predict 
 which patient group(s) will have the best response to CRT. Usually symptoms 
 such as shortness of breath and fatigue can be easily neglected by patients 
 and hence diagnosis will be delayed until very late or the situation 
 is very severe and dangerous that hospitalization is required. In the 
 assessment of heart failure patients, two newest technologies in echocardiography: 
 tissue synchronization imaging and 3-dimensional echocardiography are 
 introduced. Tissue synchronization imaging is a Doppler technology to 
 compare the timing of contraction in different regions of heart muscles 
 simultaneously and transform them into color codes. It is useful for 
 immediate identification of uncoordinated contraction of the heart. 
 The 3-dimensional echocardiography allows "real time" viewing of the 
 heart structure and provides a better understanding between structure 
 and function of the heart. These two new tools will also help doctors 
 to select appropriate patients for CRT.
The 
 Division of Cardiology of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
 CUHK have organised in collaboration with Tsinghua University of Beijing 
 the "International Heart Failure Symposium-Hong Kong 2004" on 21-22 
 February 2004 to highlight the importance of diagnosing heart failure 
 early and providing optimal treatment and care for this very common 
 and serious condition. The largest of the kind ever held in Hong Kong 
 on the topic of heart failure, the symposium brings together physicians 
 and allied health care professionals involved in heart failure from 
 China, South-East Asia, Europe and the USA to share views and experiences. 
 More than 20 renowned speakers in heart failure and related fields have 
 been invited as international faculty for this landmark event. 
From 
 left:
 Professor SUNG Jao Yiu, Joseph, Chairman, Department of Medicine and 
 Therapeutics, CUHK
 Professor SANDERSON John Elsby, Head of Division of Cardiology, Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK
 Professor YU Cheuk Man, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK
 Dr FUNG Wing Hong, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK
 
 

 
