[title]CUHK Announces Ground-breaking Findings on Herbal Extracts for Treatment of Insomnia[/title]

[date]11 October 2005[/date]


 CUHK Announces Ground-breaking Findings on Herbal Extracts for Treatment of Insomnia
 Government-Academic-Industry Project Demonstrates Model for Drug Development in TCM 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Bright Future Pharmaceutical Laboratories Limited (Bright Future) today announced key findings from a HK$9-million, three-year research project to develop globally marketable herbal product for treatment of insomnia.
Using a wide variety of advanced technologies, including DNA array, Telemetry EEG Recording and Brain Slice Recording, the research team clearly demonstrated the effectiveness of an herbal extract to treat insomnia and also identified the active components in the herb and their molecular targets in the brain.
Professor Chan Hsiao-Chang, Director of the Epithelial Cell Biology Research Centre (ECBRC), CUHK, remarked: The current project has provided scientific evidence revealing the sedative/hypnotic effects of an herb and its active compounds, compared favourably over some existing sedative drugs. The identified active compounds and understanding of their individual action as well as synergistic action in an herbal mixture will enable tailor-made formulations providing alternative treatments to insomnia. With active compounds identified and their action mechanisms understood, the development of proprietary herbal product as well as pharmaceuticals with global market potential is possible.
Mr. Chan Chak-Yeung, Managing Director of Bright Future indicated: We are excited over the findings and currently active in getting the herbal product registered in Hong Kong and China with the hope to launch it into the market early next year.
This university-industry collaborative project was jointly funded by Bright Future and the Innovation and Technology Commission of The Government of the Hong Kong SAR. With an initial investment of HK$1 million from Bright Future and a joint funding of HK$8.18 million under the Innovation and Technology Fund scheme, the project aimed at identifying and characterising the action mechanism, efficacy and safety of an herbal-derived sedative. By fully identifying the active components of the herb and characterising their pharmacological targets, a new alternative treatment for insomnia may be developed.
Chinese herbal medicine is a great treasury of China and plays unique roles in relieving some modern illnesses closely related to living habits. However, Chinese herbal medicine relying on ¡¥traditional experiences¡¦ cannot enter the world market due to insufficient data collection and scientific research. If Chinese herbal medicine underwent scientific tests, it could spread to international use. The successful experience in this project demonstrates that we can develop drug from Chinese herb with vigorous scientific tests, said Professor Ferid Murad, Honorary Director of ECBRC and 1998 Nobel Laureate in Physiology and Medicine. 
Insomnia is characterised as difficulty in falling asleep, difficulty in staying asleep, waking too early; or experiencing non-refreshing sleep; and affects between 30% and 50% of the adult population during the course of the year. Studies in Hong Kong have revealed that up to 38% of elderly and approximately 12% of the adult Chinese population are suffering from insomnia at any one time. Striking results from a recent survey in Shanghai indicated that 47.1% of the people claimed to have disturbed sleep during the night, 42.1% with difficulty maintaining sleep and 54.3% with daytime drowsiness. During times of economic uncertainty, the prevalence of insomnia is also thought to increase dramatically due to psychological distress and can lead to further social and economical consequences, such as absenteeism and poor performance at work, increased fatigue related accidents and increased development of psychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression, leading to increased health care costs and decreased productivity. 
Conventional treatments for insomnia include the use of BZ and BZ receptor-acting hypnotics (e.g. zolpidem), tricyclic antidepressants and antihistamines. However, the dependence potential of BZ and the poor tolerability and possible long term side effects of antidepressants and antihistamines is an increasing cause for concern. Alternative treatments are therefore becoming more popular, using medicinal herbs such as valerian, ginseng, kava kava, passion flower hops, St John¡¦s wort and skullcap, traditional Chinese herbs and also physiological agents such as melatonin. However, despite the success in marketing alternative medicines for treatment of insomnia, even the most popular of OTC drugs have limited or no evidence on their action and side effects. A recent review of OTC sleeping pills available in Hong Kong revealed that although almost 20 different sleeping aids were available at local pharmacists, the majority were untested and had insufficient data to prove their efficacy and safety. 


 
