[title]CUHK Showcases Student Achievements in Innovation and Entrepreneurship[/title]

[date]11 January 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University Showcases Student Achievements
 in Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong has always emphasized all-round development and creativity of its students, which make than more competitive in the global environment. In 2005, students of the Chinese University won many international, national and local awards in innovation and entrepreneurship. These awards recognized the innovative scientific research and creative business minds of CUHK students.
In order to commend the outstanding achievements of its students, the Chinese University organizes an exhibition to showcase their award winning projects at the University Library from 11 January to 14 January. 
Professor Lawrence Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University, presented commendation letters to the award winning students at the opening ceremony of the exhibition. He said, In recent years, we begin to systematically support and encourage our students to develop innovative technologies that can be applied to business and service industries. We are very glad that many of their projects have gained them licenses and awards. Others have been released in international seminars. These exercises greatly boost the academic standards and confidence of our students and widen their horizon.
Mr. Chu Zhu Nong, Director General, Education, Science and Technology Department, Liaison Office of the Central People¡¦s Government in the HKSAR, was officiating guest of the opening ceremony. He congratulated the winners, Students should see today¡¦s exhibition as a beginning for them to work harder and strive to improve their creativity, so that they can contribute to the prosperity of Hong Kong and the nation.
The student research and entrepreneur projects displayed at the exhibition cover medicine and health, environment, computer technologies, astronomy, and business. Some of these projects won awards in the 9th Challenge Cup held in November 2005. Challenge Cup is considered the premier national competition of extra-curricular technological projects of university students. The Chinese University won the Hong Kong and Macau Cup in the 8th and 9th Challenge Cup, making it the first university to get this honor in two consecutive competitions. 
 
 Mr Chu Zhu Nong,Director General, Education, Science and Technology Department, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR officiated at the Opening Ceremony. 
 
from left: 
 Professor Henry Wong, Head of New Asia College, CUHK 
 Professor Jack Cheng, Prof-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 
 Mr Chu Zhu Nong,Director General, Education, Science and Technology Department, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR
 Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 
 Professor Ho Puay-peng, University Dean of Students, CUHK 
 Students introducing their winning projects to guests. 
 
 Vice-chancellor with winners of Challenge Cup. 


 
