[title]SHKP and CUHK present lecture by new Nobel Laureate Edmund Phelps


 

 

 [/title]

[date]30 November 2006[/date]


 SHKP and CUHK present lecture by new Nobel Laureate Edmund Phelps
 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) presented the seventh installment of the widely-acclaimed Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures at the Kowloon Shangri-La hotel today. The organizers were honoured to have this year¡¦s Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, Edmund S Phelps, give a public lecture in Hong Kong. Over 500 people attended the lecture to hear the new Nobel Laureate¡¦s words of wisdom. 
Professor Phelps¡¦ lecture on Stumbling Blocks on the way to a Modern Economy was well received by the assembled academics, economists, business leaders and students. The lecture was broadcast live to local universities and the renowned Peking, Fudan, Shanghai Jiao Tong and the School of Economics and Management and School of Public Policy and Management of Tsinghua universities on the mainland, and is available through the Hong Kong Education City web site. The goal of the broadcast was to promote academic exchange and allow more people to benefit from Professor Phelps¡¦ scholarship.
SHKP Vice Chairman and Managing Director Raymond Kwok and CUHK Vice Chancellor Lawrence Lau introduced today¡¦s lecture. Mr Kwok said: We are committed to promoting education and life-long learning. Globalization makes it imperative that we all try to equip ourselves with a broader perspective and the most up-to-date knowledge. Our Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures provide an opportunity for people in Hong Kong to hear world-class scholars and benefit from their vision. We believe that the series is an important vehicle for advancing academic knowledge and educating the public, which will have a profound impact on the territory and its future.
Professor Lau reiterated CUHK¡¦s gratitude to Mr Kwok for his most generous support for the lecture series and thanked Professor Phelps for coming to Hong Kong. He said: We are extremely honoured and privileged that Professor Phelps accepted our invitation to come here and share his insights with us before he accepts his Nobel Prize next Friday at Stockholm University. We also look forward to his support for our quest to promote excellence in education and research in the field of economics.
The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures began in 2004. The series is intended to encourage learning and innovation and enhance Hong Kong¡¦s competitiveness by allowing people to share in the excitement of discovery and breakthroughs in the six Nobel Prize categories. This was the seventh installment of the lecture series, which has hosted 13 Nobel Laureates and other distinguished scholars so far.

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
