[title]CUHK Announces Suspension of Classroom Teaching[/title]

[date]28 March 2003[/date]


Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 Resolves to Proceed with Discussions
 with the Government on Institutional Integration 
 
The Council of The Chinese University of Hong Kong received the Report 
 of the University's Task Force to Advise on Institutional Integration 
 today. At its meeting held this afternoon, the University Council carefully 
 studied the contents of the Report and deliberated on the various recommendations 
 put forward. The Council accepted the Report and endorsed its recommendations, 
 authorizing the Council Chairman and the Vice-Chancellor to pursue a 
 discussion with the Government on the possibility of integration between 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Hong Kong University 
 of Science and Technology (HKUST).
 
Since its formation last 
 October, the Task Force has held ten meetings and organized four consultation 
 sessions to solicit views and comments from staff, students, alumni, 
 and other members of the Chinese University community.
The Task Force recommended 
 to the University Council that it should affirm its wish to pursue discussion 
 with the Government and HKUST on the way forward, in order to come to 
 an understanding on the many issues that need to be resolved before 
 a decision can be made; and that the Council Chairman and the Vice-Chancellor 
 should be authorized to initiate formal dialogue with the Government 
 in the first instance and to report to the Council thereon, within the 
 following parameters:
 (i) that the Government 
 should first formally affirm that the purpose of the proposed integration 
 is to improve quality and create a university capable of competing at 
 the highest international levels, rather than to reduce cost, and that, 
 in particular, the unit of funding per student will not be adjusted 
 downwards for increased size or efficiency gained, so that the integrated 
 institution can have the resources to achieve its goals;
 (ii) that in addition, 
 the Government and the UGC agree to consider the integrated institution, 
 provided it satisfies certain conditions to be agreed, as the primary 
 candidate for the focused and enhanced public and private support cited 
 in the Sutherland Report, with such public support to start once integration 
 plans are accepted by all parties;
 (iii) that the Government 
 further pledges to support, in principle, the added administrative cost 
 incurred during the transition (as front-end loading for a new university) 
 and the capital spending needed to build extra teaching and office space 
 for decanting of departments and programmes, with the level of such 
 support to be negotiated;
 (iv) that the scenario 
 to be explored is initially a federal structure evolving over a period 
 of time to a single unitary university; and
 (v) that the Government 
 recognizes the issues and concerns presented in the Task Force's Report, 
 and pledges that these will be seriously addressed in any integration 
 plans.
The Task Force further 
 recommended that, subject to favourable indications from the Government 
 on the above issues and at a time judged by the Council Chairman to 
 be suitable, the Council Chairman and the Vice-Chancellor should be 
 encouraged to initiate dialogue also with HKUST on any and all matters 
 concerning a possible integration between the two universities, with 
 a view to improving communication and mutual understanding, and, where 
 appropriate, also with a view to joining hands in discussions with the 
 Government on the way forward.
These recommendations 
 were made against the following background. In agreement with the Sutherland 
 Report of the University Grants Committee and the Government, the Task 
 Force believed that Hong Kong needs as a matter of urgency to "strategically 
 identify and create a small number of institutions capable of competing 
 at the highest international levels". The Council concurred that for 
 the benefit of the community, and especially future generations of university 
 students, CUHK should contribute to the establishment of such an elite 
 institution. The status quo is not sustainable, either for Hong Kong 
 or for its universities, because in a competitive world, those who do 
 not advance will be overtaken - Hong Kong by other cities and our universities 
 by other universities in the region.
In the short to medium 
 term there are not likely to be fundamental changes in the principles 
 and methodology by which universities in Hong Kong are funded (namely, 
 largely according to student numbers); likewise the level of such funding 
 is not likely to improve. Thus the resources required to achieve excellence 
 can only come with relatively large student numbers, which will allow 
 a university to achieve economies of scale, to command critical mass, 
 to offer a sufficiently wide range of courses, and to exert influence.
But the present size of 
 universities in Hong Kong is too small for this purpose, and there is 
 little chance in the foreseeable future for the university sector in 
 Hong Kong to expand further. Given these constraints, the Task Force 
 is of the view that integration between CUHK and another university 
 of comparable strength and mission would be a good way to achieve this 
 goal. This constitutes a strong prima facie case to pursue integration 
 with HKUST. The integration would be desirable, and if the right conditions 
 were provided, also feasible.
Nevertheless, in the event 
 of an integration between CUHK and HKUST, there would be many issues 
 and difficulties (including educational ideals, preservation of the 
 College system, care for individual students, possible administrative 
 bureaucracy, separation across two campuses, dilution of CUHK traditions, 
 staff concerns on job security and work load), and would not wish to 
 underestimate the magnitude of the practical problems that have to be 
 surmounted, including both resources and the sentiment of staff and 
 students. Some of these issues cannot be addressed by CUHK alone, in 
 particular the resources required for a relatively smooth transition.
The Council of CUHK hoped 
 that the Government would take these matters into consideration and 
 give the University its response as early as possible.
The Council of CUHK was 
 appreciative of the efforts made by members of the Task Force, whose 
 recommendations were made after months of extensive study and objective, 
 rational and careful deliberation. The Council also thanked all staff, 
 students, alumni and other members of the University who had contributed 
 their views on such an important matter, which would affect the University's 
 future development.
CUHK is committed to excellence 
 in teaching and research. Irrespective of the outcome of discussions 
 on institutional integration, the University is determined to build 
 upon its existing strengths and seek continuous progress and improvement, 
 with a view to making even greater contribution to the world of learning 
 and the community-at-large.
For details of the Report 
 of the Task Force to Advise on Institutional Integration, please consult 
 http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/doc/ii/report0328e.pdf. 
 

 
