[title]A Survey of Mood Disorders after the SARS Outbreak in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]18 May 2003[/date]


A Survey of Mood Disorders after the SARS Outbreak in Hong Kong
 
The SARS outbreak has continued to arouse massive anxiety in Hong 
 Kong. In order to accurately delineate the impact of SARS on the mental 
 health of people in Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center of 
 the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, conducted 
 a large-scale telephone survey from 2 May to 5 May 2003. 1,250 respondents 
 aged 15 or above (598 males and 652 females) were randomly selected 
 and interviewed. In this survey, mood disorder was defined as the persistent 
 presence of at least 4 physical and emotional symptoms in the previous 
 4 weeks that were associated with significant distress or impairment 
 of social functioning.
 
The survey showed that 
 19% of the respondents, i.e. 922,000 people aged 15 or above in Hong 
 Kong, suffered from mood disorders. The rate of mood disorders was 2.5 
 times higher among female (26.5%) than male respondents (10.7%). Of 
 the different occupations examined, housewives (28.9%) were the most 
 vulnerable to mood disorders. This might be due to their stressful role 
 of ensuring a hygienic home environment that was so much emphasized 
 recently. Among the working groups, clerks, customer service staff, 
 and salesmen were the most seriously affected with mood disorders (21.9%). 
 
68% of the respondents 
 reported persistent worries about themselves or their family members 
 becoming infected with SARS. The risk of infecting others (57.3%), incurability/death 
 (36.6%), and adverse effect on job or income (17.2%) were the most common 
 reasons for fearing SARS. Regarding their behavior after the SARS outbreak, 
 14.6% of respondents bought additional household products, and 17.5% 
 washed their hands over 15 times per day. Half of the respondents felt 
 hopeless about the future of Hong Kong. 
SARS caused more severe 
 psychological impact on those with mood disorders than those without. 
 Of the respondents with mood disorders, 25.7% washed their hands over 
 15 times a day, 85.2% were fearful of becoming infected with SARS, over 
 60% were pessimistic about the future of Hong Kong, and 8.9% reported 
 suicidal thought. Although they suffered many more physical and emotional 
 symptoms than respondents without mood disorders, only about 20% of 
 them sought professional help. 
About a quarter of the 
 respondents who learnt that their friends, neighbors or workers in the 
 same building were infected with SARS suffered from mood disorders. 
 This was significantly higher than the rate among respondents who did 
 not have such contact (16.9%). 74.7% of them feared contracting SARS. 
 They also developed tension or inability to relax (27.9%), slept poorly(21.4%), 
 and could not concentrate properly (18.8%). 
The findings of this survey 
 suggested that the SARS outbreak is likely to have worsened the mental 
 health status of people in Hong Kong. Mood disorders cause considerable 
 suffering and productivity loss and affect people of all age groups. 
 They can also last well after the SARS epidemic is over. Both Cognitive 
 Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and serotonin modulating drug therapy are well 
 proven by research to be effective treatments for mood disorders. Since 
 only a tiny fraction of people with mood disorders seeks any professional 
 help, more awareness of mood disorders and the accessible channels of 
 treatment must be provided to the public as a matter of urgency. The 
 Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center, in collaboration with other related 
 organizations, will launch a series of campaigns about mental health 
 in June, 2003. 

 
