[title]Cheng Yu Tung Foundation Donates HK$30 Million to the Chinese University[/title]

[date]6 December 2005[/date]


 Cheng Yu Tung Foundation Donates HK$30 Million to the Chinese University
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is proud to announce that it has received a donation of HK$30 million from the Cheng Yu Tung Foundation. The donation will be used to support CUHK¡¦s academic and research development, and to promote academic exchanges.
I always wish to nurture talents for the society by sponsoring education. In particular, I have maintained close ties with the Chinese University over the years. CUHK is renowned for the outstanding contributions of its alumni, and its academic and research excellence. I believe that CUHK will have more distinguished achievements and international acclaim in the future, said Dr. Cheung Yu Tung, Chairman of the New World Development Company Limited.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University said, Dr. Cheng Yu Tung has given tremendous support to the Chinese University for the past several decades. We want to express to him our utmost gratitude and we will continue to strive for excellence and contribute to the community.
The Chinese University has benefited immensely from the foresight and staunch support of Dr. Cheng Yu Tung. Over the years, he has sponsored many academic development projects of the University. In 1977, he helped to found CUHK¡¦s 3-year MBA Programme, and he still serves as the Chairman of Advisory Board of the MBA Programmes, offering his professional advice. In 1991, Dr. Cheng and Dr. Lee Shau Kee jointly donated US$6 million to support the CUHK-Yale South China Studies Programme.
In recent years, Dr. Cheng strongly supports the University¡¦s vision to strengthen Hong Kong¡¦s role as an excellent hospitality and tourism centre in the region. The University and in particular its School of Hotel and Tourism Management, is partnering with New World Development Company Limited to develop a teaching hotel to nurture future leaders in hotel and tourism management.
Dr. Cheng also serves as a Trustee and a Member of Endowment Fund Committee of United College of the University. In 1993, Dr. Cheng was conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa by the Chinese University in recognition of his distinguished contributions to the community and the University.
 
 
 
 


 
