[title]CUHK Ranked 4th in International Business Research[/title]

[date]19 October 2004[/date]


 CUHK Ranked 4th in International Business Research
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was ranked 4th in international 
 business research in the world by Management International Review.
 
 
The ranking results were published in Management International Review, 
 in an article entitled "Ranking the International Business Schools: 
 Faculty Publication as the Measure". The study ranks the productivity 
 of academic institutions based on their total number of articles published 
 in the top international business journals during 1996-2000. These 
 three journals are Management International Review, Journal 
 of International Business Studies, and Journal of World Business.
CUHK 
 is number four in the global ranking, and first in Asia. CUHK is also 
 ahead of the renowned University of Pennsylvania, Harvard Business 
 School and New York University. The top three universities are all 
 from North America.
The 
 study used publication output as the key criterion in measuring the 
 quality of its faculty as well as the quality of the programme. The 
 ranking result thus recognized CUHK faculty members' academic achievements, 
 productivity, and contributions to international business research.
"I 
 am most delighted by the results," said Professor Li Tien-sheng, Dean 
 of CUHK's Business Administration Faculty. "Our colleagues have done 
 a lot of high quality projects on international business research, 
 especially on international business practices in Asian countries. 
 These important research findings help strengthen Hong Kong's position 
 as an international business center."
Professor 
 Lau Chung Ming, Chairman of the Department of Management, noted, "Our 
 competitive advantage lies in our extensive research network with 
 local researchers and research institutions in the Mainland, Taiwan 
 and Japan. In fact, we have already published 17 papers in these journals 
 since 2001, more than the total sum during 1991-2000. I am confident 
 that CUHK's outstanding performance will again be recognized in the 
 next survey."
Established 
 in 1963, the CUHK Business Administration Faculty is dedicated to 
 provide a world-class business education, and to promote cutting-edge 
 business research that caters for the evolving needs of the local 
 and international community. 


 
