[title]CNOOC donates HK$2.85 million to the Chinese University


 

 

 [/title]

[date]18 October 2006[/date]


CNOOC donates HK$2.85 million to the Chinese University
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is delighted to receive a generous donation of HK$2.85 million from CNOOC Limited to establish the CNOOC Scholars Programme. The donation will be dedicated to support international exchange for undergraduate students of CUHK, in particular those from the Mainland.
Mr. Fu Cheng Yu, President of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CNOOC Limited, one of subsidiaries of CNOOC, Dr. Edgar Cheng, CUHK Council Chairman, and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, CUHK Vice-Chancellor attended the cheque presentation ceremony.
Ivy Li, one of the beneficiaries of the donation, will go to Georgetown University for an one-term exchange. She said at the cheque presentation ceremony, In today¡¦s increasingly globalized world, cultural understanding and harmony have become more and more important. I would like to pay tribute, on behalf of all those benefited in this programme, to the far-sightedness of CNOOC, who not only recognize the importance of exchange experience, but are generous enough to allow us to benefit from such an experience.
Over the years, CNOOC has supported numerous campaigns to relieve poverty and promote education. CNOOC and its staff donated generously to aid victims of the tsunami in South Asia in 2004, and the tropical cyclone Katrina in the USA last year. As a responsible corporate citizen, CNOOC donated nearly RMB 38 million to support social and educational events, as well as disaster-related rescue in 2005.
CUHK is the first university in Hong Kong to have established student exchange programmes with overseas partners, from as early as 1965. Now, CUHK partners with some 180 institutions across 24 countries/regions worldwide. For this academic year, CUHK plans to enroll 800 overseas exchange students, while around 600 CUHK students will participate in exchange programmes abroad to enhance their international exposure and global perspective. 


 
 


 
