[title]Psychosocial stressors and mood disorders of patients with diabetes mellitus in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]20 March 2003[/date]


Survey Results on Public Responses to Atypical Pneumonia in Hong 
 Kong 
Background
 1. Professor Catherine 
 So-kum Tang and Miss Joanne Chi-yan Wong of the Department of Psychology 
 at the Chinese University of Hong Kong have conducted a study on "Public 
 Responses to Atypical Pneumonia (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) 
 in Hong Kong" in March, 2003. This survey aimed to explore public understanding 
 and psychological reactions to atypical pneumonia as well as to investigate 
 public adoption of preventive health measures against this disease. 
 Survey results will facilitate preventive education, policies, and psychological 
 intervention to reduce public psychological distress in response to 
 atypical pneumonia.
 Method
 2. A total of 1,002 (451 
 men and 551 women) Chinese residents in Hong Kong and aged 17 or above 
 were telephoned surveyed on March 17 and 18 by the Hong Kong Institute 
 of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. The 
 response rate was 52.8%. Respondents were mostly around 30 to 49 years 
 old, had high school educational attainment, and earned about HK$20,000 
 per month.
 3. The telephone survey 
 included information on respondents' psychological reactions to and 
 adoption of preventive health measures against atypical pneumonia, as 
 well as their views on relevant departments' management of the outbreak 
 of this disease.
 Psychological Reactions 
 to Atypical Pneumonia
 4. Table 2 summarizes respondents' 
 various psychological reactions to atypical pneumonia. Nearly 80% of 
 them worried the spread of this disease to the community and another 
 40% also felt scared and helpless about its spread. Almost half of the 
 respondents were concerned about contracting this disease, and another 
 20% indicated that they would delay seeking help at clinics/hospitals 
 even when they were sick to avoid being infected with this disease.
 5. Results also showed 
 that as compared to men, more women felt scared and helpless when knowing 
 health care professionals being infected with atypical pneumonia, worried 
 that the disease would spread to the community, and feared that they 
 would also contract the disease themselves.
 6. Compared to other age 
 groups, respondents aged 30-59 felt the most helpless after knowing 
 health care professionals being infected with atypical pneumonia, had 
 the most concerns about contracting the disease themselves, and were 
 the most scared about its spread to the community.
 7. Respondents with low 
 as compared to high educational attainment were more likely to acknowledge 
 having insufficient information about atypical pneumonia, feeling scared 
 and helpless after hearing about the outbreak of the disease, and being 
 fearful of its spread to the community.
 Views and Adoption of 
 Preventive Health Measures
 8. About 65% of the respondents 
 agreed that the suggested preventive health measures were effective 
 in preventing atypical pneumonia. However, only 30% of the respondents 
 reported the adoption of these measures. Table 2 presents detail information 
 on respondents' views and adoption of various preventive health measures 
 against atypical pneumonia.
 9. Results also indicated 
 that men and women did not differ in their views and adoption of various 
 atypical pneumonia preventive measures. However, those who were younger 
 and had lower educational attainment were relatively less likely to 
 adopt the suggested preventive health measures.
 Views on Management 
 of the Outbreak of Atypical Pneumonia
 10. About 60% of the respondents 
 felt confident that related health departments were effective in managing 
 the outbreak of atypical pneumonia, and another 50% were also satisfied 
 with the actual management of the disease by these departments. However, 
 only 35% of the respondents agreed that these departments had disseminated 
 clear and adequate information and health guidelines on atypical pneumonia.
 11. Women as compared to 
 men and middle-aged as compared to other age groups of respondents were 
 less satisfied with related departments' management of the disease. 
 Younger and highly educated respondents were also less likely to agree 
 that these departments had disseminated clear and adequate information 
 and health guideline on the disease.
 Conclusions and Recommendations
 12. To integrate the results, 
 this survey indicated that respondents' adoption of the suggested preventive 
 health measures against atypical pneumonia were related to their self-efficacy 
 in performing these health measures, concerns about the spread of the 
 disease to the community as well as adequate knowledge about the disease. 
 Moreover, respondents' self-efficacy in performing these preventive 
 health measures were linked to relevant departments' dissemination of 
 clear and adequate information and health guidelines about the disease, 
 which in turn greatly influenced respondents' confidence and satisfaction 
 toward these departments' management of the outbreak of the disease.
 Based on the results, the 
 following recommendations were made:
 13. Relevant health departments 
 should continue to strengthen the dissemination of information about 
 atypical pneumonia so that the public can keep track of the progress 
 of the situation, effectively carry out the suggested preventive health 
 measures, and reduce negative psychological reactions to the outbreak 
 of this disease.
 14. Vigorous pubic health 
 education programs should be launched to enhance the public's understanding 
 and adoption of preventive health measures against atypical pneumonia.
 15. Supportive and counseling 
 services should be provided to the public and health care professionals 
 to reduce stress and negative psychological reactions to atypical pneumonia. 
 Simple and effective coping strategies to alleviate negative emotions 
 associated with the disease outbreak include: (1) stress management 
 to reduce psychological discomfort, (2) accepting that emotional stress 
 in reaction to the occurrence of sudden critical events is normal and 
 allowing the expression of these negative emotions, and (3) sharing 
 these emotions with people having similar experiences or other caring 
 individuals to facilitate mutual support and active management of the 
 situation. 
 
Table 
 1 Psychological Reactions to Atypical Pneumonia
 
Men
(N = 451)
Women
(N = 551)
Total
(N = 1,002)

 
Having adequate information about atypical pneumonia
%
29.9
%
29.8
%
29.8

Feeling scared after knowing health care professionals contracted atypical 
 pneumonia
22.6
35.8
29.8

Feeling helpless after knowing health care professionals contracted 
 atypical pneumonia
42.8
49.5
46.5

Worrying atypical pneumonia being spread to the community
67.6
82.3
75.7

Feeling scared about the spread of atypical pneumonia
32.6
42.6
38.1

Feeling helpless about the spread of atypical pneumonia
41.5
45.0
43.4

Worrying self contracting atypical pneumonia
43.1
61.7
53.4

Even being sick, delaying seeking help at clinics/hospitals because 
 of the fear of
23.5
24.9
24.2

contracting atypical pneumonia
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Note: Gender differences
 
 
 
Table 
 2 Views and Adoption of Related Preventive Health Measures
 
Men
(N = 451)
Women
(N = 551)
Total
(N = 1,002)

 
Adopting measures to prevent atypical pneumonia, e.g., washing hands 
 and cleaning noses after sneezing, wearing masks, and ensuring 
 good ventilation
%
30.2
%
34.5
%
32.5

Family members adopting the above measures to prevent atypical pneumonia
29.3
25.6
27.2

Agreeing the above measures being effective in preventing atypical pneumonia
67.2
63.7
65.3

Agreeing to have vaccination against atypical pneumonia if such vaccines 
 are available
82.1
82.4
82.3

Agreeing isolation of those infected with atypical pneumonia
84.8
91.0
88.2

 
 
(N = 118)
 
(N = 173)
 
(N = 291)

Seeking help when self and family members having symptoms of sneezing, 
 fever, rapid breathing
47.5
59.5
54.6
Note: No gender difference
 
 
 
Table 3 Views on Management of the Outbreak of Atypical 
 Pneumonia
 
Men
(N = 451)
Women
(N = 551)
Total
(N = 1,002)

 
Agreeing 
 related health departments (DH, HA) disseminating clear information 
 and health guidelines on atypical pneumonia
%
37.0
%
33.2
%
34.9

Agreeing 
 related health departments (DH, HA) disseminating adequate information 
 and health guidelines on atypical pneumonia
37.0
27.8
31.9

Feeling 
 satisfied with related health departments¡¦ management of atypical 
 pneumonia
53.0
48.1
50.3

Feeling 
 confident that related health departments being able to effectively 
 manage atypical pneumonia, including prevention, control, and 
 intervention of the disease
63.2
57.5
60.1
Note: DH = Department of Health, HA = Hospital Authority, 
 Gender difference
 

 
