[title]Territory-wide SARS Seroprevalence Study[/title]

[date]15 March 2004[/date]


 Territory-wide SARS Seroprevalence Study Suggests
 Hong Kong Is Not A Human Reservoir For SARS Coronavirus 
 
A territory-wide study by the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases 
 (CEID) of the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 suggests that extremely few Hong Kong residents have asymptomatic SARS 
 infection.
 
"Keep 
 Hong Kong SARS-free" was the first population-based study to determine 
 the prevalence of asymptomatic SARS-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV) 
 infection in Hong Kong. 50,000 randomly selected households were invited 
 to participate in the project between September and October 2003. 
To prevent 
 Hong Kong from further attacks by SARS and other emerging infectious 
 diseases unprepared, the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong established CEID and immediately launched its first population-based 
 serological survey last year to: 1) determine the prevalence of antibody 
 to SARS-coronavirus in the general population of Hong Kong, and to 2) 
 examine the risk factors predisposing to asymptomatic SARS infection.
Blood 
 samples from 12,000 Hong Kong citizens were collected and screened for 
 the presence of the SARS-CoV antibody using enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
 assay (ELISA). Positive samples underwent immunoflourescence assay (IFA) 
 and Western Blot for confirmation.
Fifty-three 
 subjects had a positive test on initial ELISA screening; seven of them 
 were confirmed as true positives. Among these seven positive cases, 
 only one had asymptomatic infection. The prevalence of asymptomatic 
 SARS-CoV infection in this study was 0.009% (95% confidence interval, 
 0.0002% - 0.06%). It is thus estimated that there are only about 630 
 asymptomatic SARS cases in Hong Kong. Hence, asymptomatic SARS-CoV infection 
 is very rare in Hong Kong. The study suggests most Hong Kong citizens 
 had not been exposed to the virus. Importantly, the result implies that 
 there is no significant human reservoir for SARS-CoV infection in Hong 
 Kong.
"Keep 
 Hong Kong SARS-free" was a research project funded by the Research Grants 
 Council Earmarked Research Grant (2003-2004). 
 

 
