[title]Call for Attention to Psychological Reactions to SARS[/title]

[date]4 April 2003[/date]


Call for Attention to Psychological Reactions to SARS
 
Professor Dr. Fanny CHEUNG Mui-ching, Chairperson of the Psychology 
 Department at The Chinese University of Hong Kong called attention to 
 the psychological reactions to SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome).
SARS has created a state 
 of crisis in Hong Kong. The crisis disrupts normal functioning. Psychological 
 reactions to this crisis include anxiety, fears, panic, hopelessness, 
 distress and external blame, similar to other posttraumatic stress reactions. 
 These reactions lead to maladjustment.
Dr. Cheung warned that 
 several groups of people are particularly vulnerable and early access 
 to psychological support would be important:
 - Patients and persons who have come into close contact;
 - Frontline workers in high-risk locations and their close associates;
Crisis intervention measures 
 should ensure access to clear and accurate information to reduce uncertainty 
 and fear, and psychological support to alleviate emotional disturbance. 
 Taking up concrete and constructive action to help oneself and others 
 can increase one's sense of self-efficacy.
For psychological support, 
 many government departments and NGOs have set up hotline services. Information 
 on these hotlines should be centralized and widely publicized. In addition 
 to health care and screening, the Government should provide out-reach 
 psychological services and posttraumatic stress debriefing to the vulnerable 
 groups.
Dr. Cheung, who was formerly 
 the Founding Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission, pointed 
 out that mass panic reactions to crisis were common among the general 
 public. These reactions would escalate confusion and horror. In turn, 
 discriminatory attitudes were fostered, further dividing the public.
"Condemnation of these 
 reactions provides an opportunity for Hong Kong to build a responsible 
 and caring community", Dr. Cheung said. "This is a time for solidarity 
 for Hong Kong to foster civic-mindedness and fight off discrimination 
 from the international community." Dr. Cheung appealed to citizens to 
 ask what they can do and have done to help themselves and others during 
 this crisis. Community groups and leaders were urged to help by dispelling 
 myths, and promoting health education and mutual support. 

 
