[title]Simple Dialogic Reading Technique Substantially Improved Children's Vocabulary Development[/title]

[date]17 June 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 Studies Found: Simple Dialogic Reading Technique Substantially Improved 
 
 Children's Vocabulary Development 
 
Researchers at The Chinese University of Hong Kong have demonstrated 
 that just an hour's worth of training for parents on how to read 
 effectively with their children boosted their children's vocabulary 
 skills substantially over a relatively short time of several weeks. 
 In three separate studies of Hong Kong Chinese kindergartners, parents 
 who were trained to read to their children using the dialogic reading 
 technique, originally developed by Professor Grover Whitehurst in 
 the U.S., significantly improved their children's vocabulary knowledge 
 over time as compared to children reading with their parents the 
 way they typically did at home or not reading at all. 
Dialogic 
 reading involves encouraging children to interact with storybooks 
 in a very active way. Parents ask children different types of questions 
 that require children to elaborate on the text and express their 
 ideas about the story freely. Ideally, the child becomes the storyteller, 
 and the parent becomes the facilitator and cheerleader for the child's 
 ideas about the story. 
These 
 studies are part of on-going research on early language and literacy 
 development in Hong Kong conducted by Professor Catherine McBride-Chang, 
 M.Phil. student Bonnie Wing-Yin Chow, and Professor Him Cheung, 
 in the Centre for Developmental Psychology at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong. The first study showed promising effects of dialogic 
 reading for both vocabulary knowledge and literacy skill among 86 
 Chinese kindergartners after just two twenty-minute sessions per 
 week across eight weeks of parent-child reading. The second study, 
 perhaps the first of its kind in the world, demonstrated that vocabulary 
 knowledge of 28 hard-of-hearing children in their last year of kindergarten, 
 first, and second grades, improved substantially among families 
 using a combination of the dialogic reading technique and visual 
 aids. The dialogic reading technique is especially useful for promoting 
 communication in families with hearing-impaired children, and this 
 communication resulted in increased vocabulary skills over just 
 eight weeks. Both of these research studies have since been published 
 in academic journals. 
The 
 third study, supported by the Quality Education Fund, involved 110 
 kindergarteners and their parents. Like the other two studies, this 
 study compared groups of families randomly assigned to one of three 
 conditions. One group was given no reading instruction and no extra 
 books. Children in this group were initially tested on reading-related 
 interest and skills and were subsequently tested twelve weeks later. 
 The second group was given a new book to read every week, and families 
 were asked to read the new book with their children the way they 
 normally would. In the third group, the dialogic reading group, 
 parents were initially trained on dialogic reading for one hour. 
 They were asked to use the dialogic reading technique in reading 
 to their children the new books they received each week. Results 
 of this study demonstrated that, compared to the first two groups, 
 the dialogic reading group improved substantially more on vocabulary 
 knowledge over the twelve weeks. In addition, only the children 
 from the dialogic reading group showed a statistically significant 
 increase in enthusiasm for reading, as measured by a questionnaire 
 about enjoyment of reading, over the twelve weeks. Parents' reactions 
 to the dialogic reading program were also strong. For example, 65% 
 of parents using this technique thought their children's interest 
 in reading had increased, while over 70% of parents thought their 
 children's vocabulary knowledge, verbal fluency, and Chinese character 
 recognition had improved as a result of this technique. 
Overall, 
 this series of studies has demonstrated that the dialogic reading 
 technique can be easily applied to Chinese language and literacy 
 learning, with clearly positive, measurable results in 8-12 weeks. 
 In addition, the results of the study with hearing-impaired children 
 are particularly encouraging, because language-learning, especially 
 vocabulary development, is notoriously difficult for hearing-impaired 
 children. The technique is easy to learn and apply. The goal of 
 the technique is to get children to talk about the stories they 
 read and for parents to encourage this discussion and expand on 
 their children's comments. More information on specific techniques 
 for dialogic reading can be found on the dialogic reading website 
 at http://www.psy.cuhk.edu.hk/~qefproject. 
The 
 dialogical reading has worked well in promoting early language and 
 pre-literacy skills in children learning to read in their first 
 language. 
 



 
