[title]Medical Faculty of CUHK announces major initiatives[/title]

[date]8 March 2004[/date]


 Medical Faculty of The Chinese University of Hong Kong announces 
 major initiatives 
 
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 today announced the key infrastructure and development initiatives in 
 the coming years to strengthen its excellence in teaching and research 
 as well as the provision of quality patient care. They are the new Clinical 
 Sciences Building, the P3 laboratory with animal research facilities, 
 the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases and the Minimally Invasive 
 Surgery Centre. The research capacity of the Medical Faculty will be 
 further enhanced after the completion of the Centralised Science Laboratory 
 Building on campus.
 New 
 Clinical Sciences Building
 It is a 11-storey building adjacent to the existing Clinical Sciences 
 Building in the Prince of Wales Hospital, the teaching hospital of the 
 Medical Faculty. The new building has a total gross floor area of over 
 13,000m2, to be completed in the third quarter of 2006. The new building 
 will house the state-of-the-art research facilities which include the 
 P3 laboratory with animal research facilities and Lee Hysan Research 
 Laboratories, lecture halls, conference rooms, seminar rooms, student 
 facilities and offices.
 Update 
 on the P3 laboratories
 The pre-fabricated P3 laboratory, adjacent to the Hong Kong Institute 
 of Biotechnology at the eastern campus of the University, will be in 
 operation in July 2004. By the end of 2006, the permanent P3 laboratory 
 located on the top floor of the new Clinical Sciences Building, which 
 is equipped with animal research facilities, will be completed. This 
 will further strengthen the research facilities of the Medical Faculty.
 Centre 
 for Emerging Infectious Diseases (CEID)
 The permanent office of CEID will be located on the 11/F of the existing 
 Clinical Sciences Building. It is due to be completed by the end of 
 this year. With the major funding from the HKSAR Government and the 
 generous donation from the community, CEID is adequately funded to launch 
 its initiatives in training professionals in the field of infectious 
 diseases and spearhead research projects that will have long term impact 
 on preventing and management infectious diseases. CEID is now actively 
 recruiting globally expert virologists, epidemiologists and clinician 
 specialized in infectious diseases.
 Minimally 
 Invasive Surgery (MIS) Centre
 MIS has been well recognized. The popularity, complexity and importance 
 of MIS will continue to increase in the future. With the full support 
 from the University and also generous support from the community, the 
 Medical Faculty will establish the MIS Centre to further strengthen 
 its leading position in MIS in Hong Kong and Asia.
 Centralised 
 Science Laboratory Building
 It is a large-scale complex with a total gross floor area of 13,500m2, 
 adjacent to the Science Centre and the Basic Medical Sciences Building 
 on the University main campus. The complex will house over 70 laboratories 
 of high-risk category to support research works of the Science and Medical 
 Faculties. The new laboratory building will be in operation in the 4th 
 quarter of 2005.
The 
 Faculty of Medicine of the Chinese University is committed to the provision 
 of quality medical education and research as well as expert patient 
 care. With the successful launch of the major initiatives, the Faculty 
 will make even further contributions to the community through its professional 
 expertise, cutting-edge medical research and its dedication to patient 
 care. 
Model of 
 the new Clinical Sciences Building
From 
 left to right:
 Professor Michael Tam, Associate Dean (Pre-Clinical), Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK
 Professor Joseph Sung, Associate Dean (Clinical), Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK
 Professor Sydney Chung, Dean, Faculty of Medicine, CUHK
 Professor Ambrose King, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK
 Professor Fok Tai Fai, Associate Dean (Administration), Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK
 Professor Tony Chung, Associate Dean (Education), Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK
 Professor Dennis Lo, Associate Dean (Research), Faculty of Medicine, 
 CUHK 
 

 
