[title]Three CUHK Scholars Named Croucher Senior Research Fellow[/title]

[date]2006-2007[/date]




 

 



 28 March 2006
 Three CUHK Scholars Named Croucher Senior Research Fellow 2006-2007
 Three top research academics from The Chinese University of Hong Kong were presented the prestigious Senior Research Fellowships of The Croucher Foundation today (28 March), in recognition of their outstanding scientific achievements in the international scientific community. They are Professor Hak Fun CHOW of the Department of Chemistry and Professor Jie HUANG of the Department of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering. Professor Dennis Yuk Ming LO of the Department of Chemical Pathology was awarded the Medical Research Fellowships.
The awards were presented by Professor ZHOU Guangzhao, Chairman of the China Association for Science and Technology.
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997/98 academic year. The value of each Senior Research Fellowship is about US$100,000. It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work. In recognition of their success and to encourage their further achievement in their given fields, funds will be awarded to the universities in which they are employed. This enables the University to recruit an academic to take over the award winner¡¦s duties for the period of the fellowship. The fellow will then be relieved from teaching tasks from six months to one year and in turn can devote more time and effort to research work. Each winner will also receive a cash award of HK$40,000.
A total of 12 Scholars from CUHK have been awarded the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship since its inception, they are: Professor Henry WONG Nai Ching, Professor WU Chi, Professor XIE Zuo Wei and Professor CHOW Hak Fun of Chemistry, Professor Raymond YEUNG Wai Ho of Information Engineering, Professor ZHOU Xunyu of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management, Professor WEI Juncheng of Mathematics, Professor XIA Keqing of Physics, Professor HUANG Jie of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering. Three Scholars have been awarded Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowship which include Professor Jean WOO and Professor Joseph SUNG of Medicine and Therapeutics, and Professor Dennis Yuk Ming LO of Chemical Pathology.

From left: Professor Hak Fun CHOW, Professor Jie HUANG and Professor Dennis Yuk Ming LO 
 
  
  
 
 

  


 
