[title]CUHK Constructs Leading Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre[/title]

[date]6 July 2004[/date]


 CUHK Constructs Leading Minimally Invasive Surgical Skills Centre
 and Steps up Global Exchange on Advances in Surgical Skills Training
Revolutionizes 
 Conventional Surgical Training and Enhances Patient Care
 
The Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 today announced another major development initiative in the coming year 
 - the establishment of the first multi-disciplinary Minimally Invasive 
 Surgical Skills Centre in the Asia Pacific region.
The 
 Centre will be equipped with leading edge technologies designed for 
 comprehensive modern surgical training and skills development, in particular 
 for the full range of minimally invasive surgery (MIS), which is popularly 
 known as "keyhole surgery".
"The 
 MIS Skills Centre revolutionizes traditional training methods in surgery 
 by incorporating the benefits of advanced technologies. It will greatly 
 improve the quality of patient care through MIS training practice, and 
 help enhance Hong Kong's position as a world hub for medical sciences 
 and surgical research," said Professor Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, 
 CUHK. "CUHK is proud to continue to be a pioneer in the region and further 
 develop the MIS concept which is fundamental to the future of surgery," 
 he continued.
The 
 evolution of MIS has brought dramatic changes to the practice of all 
 surgical disciplines since the 1980's. It hugely reduces pain suffered 
 by patients, and enables faster recovery at lower cost. Key-hole surgery 
 has been widely applied to operations of the abdomen, chest, head and 
 neck, brain and vascular system. However, it challenges traditional 
 apprenticeship methods of surgical training and Hong Kong is in urgent 
 need of dedicated laboratory-setting training facilities for repetitive 
 training and practice of skills in different simulated scenarios with 
 no risk to patients.
Facilities 
 in CUHK MIS Skills Centre will include a multidisciplinary surgical 
 animal skills laboratory, Hong Kong's first virtual reality training 
 laboratory, two state-of-the-art endo-surgery operating theatre suites, 
 a simulated operation room, a leading-edge robotic surgical system, 
 a microscopic and endoscopic surgical laboratory and a seminar room 
 all linked by teleconference facilities. The Centre will be located 
 in the Prince of Wales Hospital and be completed by 2005.
The 
 cost of the MIS Skills Centre is around HK$50 million, with a generous 
 donation from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust (HK$28.2 million) 
 and Kai Chong Tong Foundation and support from the University and the 
 community at large. "The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has been 
 a staunch supporter of the University's various initiatives in providing 
 training and quality health care for the people of Hong Kong, from the 
 establishment of the Jockey Club School of Public Health, the Jockey 
 Club Centre for Osteoporosis Centre and Control, and now, to the Minimally 
 Invasive Surgical Skills Centre," said Mr William Yiu, Executive Director, 
 Charities and Corporate Secretariat, The Hong Kong Jockey Club. "I am 
 sure that through its comprehensive multi-disciplinary MIS training 
 programmes for related professionals, the Centre will not only improve 
 the quality of patient care in Hong Kong, but will also enable Hong 
 Kong to take a leading role in minimally invasive surgery in the Asian 
 Pacific region," he added.
The 
 Centre will launch its initiatives in training professionals in the 
 field of MIS and spearhead research projects that promise to have long 
 term impact on advanced surgical training in the Asia Pacific region. 
 Multi-disciplinary teams with surgeons and engineers will join hands 
 to design and develop products and instruments customised for MIS particularly 
 focussing on virtual reality, augmented reality, robotic surgery and 
 tele-surgery.
It is 
 estimated that 52 meetings and courses will be conducted every year, 
 in which over 1,500 doctors, both local and from abroad, will participate 
 and benefit annually.
"We 
 are determined to make this a world-class centre recognised for excellence 
 in training and pioneering research. In constructing the Centre, we 
 are pleased to work with a company uniquely positioned to contribute 
 valuable expertise and experience gained from building surgical training 
 centres in Australia, the US, and the UK," said Professor Andrew van 
 Hasselt, Chairman of the Department of Surgery of CUHK on a building 
 consultancy contract signed today with Medic Vision Ltd, an Australian 
 company.
Recognising 
 the significance of the CUHK MIS Skills Centre for Hong Kong, a delegation 
 from Australia, including His Excellency Lieutenant General John Sanderson, 
 Governor of Western Australia, and Mrs. Carrie Yau, Permanent Secretary 
 for Health, Welfare and Food, Dr Leong Che-hung, President of the Hong 
 Kong Academy of Medicine, Dr Samuel Kwok, President of the College of 
 Surgeons of Hong Kong, as well as Dr Fung Hong, Chief Executive of Hospital 
 Authority New Territories East Cluster, attended the ceremony, congratulating 
 CUHK on its initiative towards advancing surgical training and patient 
 care in Hong Kong.
"Promoting 
 global exchange and sharing advances in surgical skills is imperative 
 for training top-notch surgeons," said Professor Andrew van Hasselt. 
 "And therefore CUHK has been in close contact with the top skills centres 
 over the world." As demonstrated in the videoconference during the ceremony 
 of establishment of the Centre, Prof. Jeffrey Huang, Vice Minister of 
 Health of The People's Republic of China together with the centre directors 
 from the European Institute of Telesurgery in France, the Royal Australasian 
 College of Surgeons and the Clinical Training and Education Centre in 
 Australia and Stanford University, USA, were all highly supportive and 
 endorsed the establishment of the Centre in Hong Kong. All agreed that 
 global collaboration on surgical training would be important preparing 
 to manage the increasing complexity of surgical procedures together 
 with the explosive development of many new technologies.
The 
 Faculty of Medicine of the CUHK has been playing a pivotal role in MIS 
 development and research in the Asia Pacific region. Over the years, 
 members from different divisions have developed a great number of novel 
 MIS techniques, with many world's and Asia's firsts having been performed 
 at the Prince of Wales Hospital. 
 
 

 
