[title]Authority in Comparative Politics Larry Diamond Lectures at the CUHK[/title]

[date]18 September 2006[/date]


Authority in Comparative Politics Larry Diamond Lectures at the Chinese University
 Professor Larry Diamond, Senior Fellow of Hoover Institution at Stanford University delivered a lecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong today. The topic was Can the Whole World be Democratic? Thoughts on Remaining Obstacles to Democratization from a Global Perspective. Professor Diamond is an authority in comparative politics, specializing in democratization in different parts of the world.
Professor Diamond received all of his degrees from Stanford University, including a B.A. in 1974, an M.A. in 1978, and a Ph.D. in Sociology in 1980. He taught Sociology at Vanderbilt University from 1980-85 before joining the Hoover Institution. He is now Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution of Stanford University, and founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy. He is also professor by courtesy of political science and sociology of Stanford University. His research interests include comparative problems of democratic development and consolidation, US and international policies to promote democracy and foster development, challenges of post-war state-building in Iraq and comparatively, democratic consolidation in Taiwan in comparative perspective, democratic transitions and prospects in Africa, and public attitudes and values toward democracy in new democracies.
Professor Diamond has served as a senior advisor on governance to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, and a consultant to the US Agency for International Development. He is currently a member of USAID¡¦s Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid. He has also advised and lectured to the World Bank, the United Nations, the State Department, and other governmental and non-governmental agencies dealing with governance and development.
He is the author of Squandered Victory: The American Occupation and the Bungled Effort to Bring Democracy to Iraq (Times Books, 2005), Developing Democracy: Toward Consolidation (Johns Hopkins, 1999), Promoting Democracy in the 1990s (Carnegie Corporation of New York, 1999), and Class, Ethnicity, and Democracy in Nigeria (Macmillan, 1988). He has also edited or co-edited more than 30 books. 




 
