[title]Mood Disorders in Post Stroke Patients in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]7 April 2005[/date]


Mood 
 Disorders in Post Stroke Patients in Hong Kong 
 
Besides causing physical disability, stroke may cause emotional 
 problems in surviving patients. Researchers at the Department of 
 Psychiatry and the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics of The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong have conducted a series of studies 
 to examine the mood disorders in post stroke patients in Hong Kong. 
 
Post 
 stroke depression (PSD) adversely affects the speed of recovery, 
 length of stay in hospital, functional outcome, quality of life, 
 suicide rate, and mortality. Oversea studies indicated the frequency 
 of PSD in Chinese populations ranging from 33 to 55%. 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong conducted a local study in 1999 
 and examined the frequency of PSD in 157 Chinese first time stroke 
 patients, using vigorous assessment. All subjects were interviewed 
 by a qualified psychiatrist. It was found that the frequency of 
 all depressive disorders was 17.2%. Major depressive episodes, adjustment 
 disorder with depressed mood and dysthymia were diagnosed in 7.6%, 
 8.2% and 1.3% of the subjects, respectively. The majority of depressed 
 subjects were in remission at the follow-up assessment. 
In 
 2002, another study was conducted to evaluate the psychosocial, 
 clinical, and radiological predictors of PSD in Chinese patients. 
 189 patients participated in the study. Three months after the index 
 stroke, a psychiatrist made a diagnosis of depression. Thirty-one 
 (16.4%) of the subjects had a diagnosis of PSD that included major 
 depression (n=11, 5.8%,), minor depression (n=16, 8.5%,), or dysthymia 
 (n=4, 2.1%,). Risk factors for PSD included a female gender, a lower 
 level of education, subcortical infarcts, more life events in the 
 previous 12 months, and lesions in the anterior cerebral artery 
 territory. A high level of social support was a protective factor. 
 
Another 
 common mood disorders inflicting post stroke patients is emotional 
 incontinence. Emotional incontinence (EI) is a condition defined 
 by virtually uncontrollable episodes of laughter, crying, or both. 
 Post stroke EI is a distressing and socially disabling problem. 
 It affects 16 to 29% of all stroke survivors. Antidepressant is 
 an effective treatment of EI. Of the few studies published on post 
 stroke EI, none has investigated a consecutive stroke cohort in 
 a Chinese population. 
In 
 2002, we examined the frequency and the clinical and radiological 
 correlates of EI in Chinese stroke patients in Hong Kong. Three 
 months after their admission, a psychiatrist interviewed 127 stroke 
 patients who were consecutively admitted to the medical wards of 
 a university-affiliated regional hospital. The frequency of EI was 
 17.9% according to Kim's criteria and 6.3% according to House's 
 criteria. 40% of all patients with EI also had concurrent PSD. Risk 
 factors for EI were a younger age, previous history of depression, 
 a higher National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale total score 
 and cortical infarcts. 
Although 
 mood disorders affect many post stroke patients, treatment to the 
 problems has been effective, concluded researchers at the Chinese 
 University. Patients and their carers should have a heightened awareness 
 of the problem and seek for professional help. 


 


 
