[title]Nobel Laureate Lectures in Chinese University on China and the Global Economy[/title]

[date]16 March 2005[/date]


 Nobel Laureate Lectures in Chinese University on China and the Global 
 Economy 
 
Professor 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz, University Professor at Columbia University and 
 2001 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, gave a lecture in The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong titled "China and the Global Economy: Challenges, 
 Opportunities, Responsibilities" today. The lecture attracted an audience 
 of around 400, including students and staff of the Chinese University, 
 consuls-general, guests from financial and academic sectors.
In 
 the lecture, Professor Stiglitz said that China's rapid economic growth 
 has great impact on the global economy, but this is not a "zero-sum" 
 game as some worry, rather, China's success can contribute to a more 
 prosperous and stable global economy. He pointed out that China's 
 accession to WTO creates opportunities which include access to international 
 markets, capital and technology inflows; but it also entails a need 
 for changes, such as enhancing domestic productivity, and changing 
 role of banks and financial institutions in moving towards market 
 economy.
According 
 to Professor Stiglitz, there is an increased perceived risk associated 
 with the US dollar as a reserve asset, and a growing dissatisfaction 
 in developing countries with the global reserve system. He believes 
 that China will have to play a central role in reforming these systems. 
 Also, China acts as a role model for the developing world, and she 
 should help create a fairer global trading system through engaging 
 in bilateral trade agreements. On the other hand, China should bear 
 the responsibility of pollution and depletion of energy resources 
 during her rapid growth. She should adopt conservation measures and 
 help create a global agreement to reduce emissions.
As 
 a world renowned master in economics, Professor Stiglitz is especially 
 famous for his analysis on global economic policies. During the Clinton 
 administration, he served as Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors 
 from 1995 to 1997. He then became Chief Economist and Senior Vice-President 
 of the World Bank (1997-2000). Professor Stiglitz has made discriminating 
 comments on numerous economic issues such as the financial crises 
 in Asia and Latin America, economies of developing countries, monetary 
 policies and globalization.
Professor 
 Stiglitz has also made remarkable academic contributions. He helped 
 create a new branch of economics, "The Economics of Information", 
 exploring the consequences of information asymmetries and pioneering 
 such pivotal concepts as adverse selection and moral hazard, which 
 have now become standard tools not only of theorists, but of policy 
 analysts. In 2001, Professor Stiglitz shared the Nobel Prize in Economic 
 Sciences with Professor A. Michael Spence and Professor George Akerlof 
 for their analyses of markets with asymmetric information.
Professor 
 Stiglitz has written textbooks that have been translated into more 
 than a dozen languages, widely used by universities around the world. 
 His book Globalization and Its Discontents, published in 2001, has 
 been translated into 28 languages and is an international bestseller.
Professor 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz was born in Indiana in 1943. A graduate of Amherst 
 College, he received his PhD from MIT in 1967, became a full professor 
 at Yale in 1970, and in 1979 was awarded the John Bates Clark Award, 
 given biennially by the American Economic Association to the economist 
 under 40 who has made the most significant contribution to the field. 
 He has taught at Princeton, Stanford, MIT and was the Drummond Professor 
 and a fellow of All Souls College, Oxford. He is now University Professor 
 at Columbia University in New York. 
Professor 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz, University Professor at Columbia University and 
 2001 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences. 
Professor 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor 
 of CUHK. 




 
