[title]Novel Anti-Cancer Drug Development in CUHK[/title]

[date]19 March 2004[/date]


 Novel Anti-Cancer Drug Development in CUHK 
 
Cancer is the number one killer in Hong Kong. In this part of the 
 world there are particularly high incidences of lung, liver, nasopharynx 
 and stomach cancers. The major cause of death for cancer is the systemic 
 spread of the malignant cells that cannot be controlled by local treatment 
 such as surgery and radiotherapy. Globally, major advances have been 
 made in the development of new drug therapy to reduce the systemic spread 
 of cancer cells. Novel drug therapies directed at new molecular targets 
 identified in the cancer research laboratories are also becoming available 
 in the clinic.
The 
 Comprehensive Cancer Trials Unit (CCTU) of the Faculty of Medicine, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is the first and only centre in 
 Hong Kong, approved by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in the United 
 States in 2002, to conduct new NCI drug clinical studies, with investigators 
 in CUHK acting as Principal Investigators in two ongoing multi-centre 
 studies in lung cancer and stomach cancer.
Professor 
 Benny Zee, Director of the CCTU, points out "having established a strong 
 track record internationally, the CCTU has formed strategic collaborations 
 with centres in Asia, North America and Europe, as well as synergistic 
 partnerships with the pharmaceutical industry".
With 
 close partnership of the academia, the industry, the government and 
 charitable organizations, and utilizing state-of-the art clinical and 
 research facilities in the Cancer Centre, CCTU has completed 61 clinical 
 trials in the past 10 years and currently has 32 ongoing trials in a 
 wide range of cancers.
In nasopharynx 
 cancer, the CCTU has undertaken pivotal studies establishing the role 
 of combination chemotherapy-radiotherapy as the standard treatment for 
 advanced disease. Several new cytotoxic drugs have been demonstrated 
 to be highly efficacious and associated with fewer side effects. In 
 liver cancer, the unit has demonstrated the benefit of systemic chemotherapy 
 in down-staging large inoperable tumours to small operable tumours. 
 In lung cancer, the unit has actively participated in pivotal studies 
 that have resulted in the recent regulatory approval of novel molecular 
 targeting therapies for patients with advanced disease.
"Advances 
 in anti-cancer drug development can only be achieved by well-designed 
 clinical trials with active participation of cancer patients, who often 
 are the first to benefit from these new forms of drug treatment," said 
 Professor Anthony Tak-Cheung Chan, Chairman of the Department of Clinical 
 Oncology and Acting Director of the Hong Kong Cancer Institute.
Recognizing 
 the major public health impact with the rising incidence of cancers, 
 CUHK established the Hong Kong Cancer Institute in 1990 to focus the 
 University's research efforts in the field of cancer. This was followed 
 by the opening of the Sir YK Pao Centre for Cancer and the Lady Pao 
 Children's Cancer Centre at the Prince of Wales Hospital in 1994. In 
 the past decade, the Faculty of Medicine of CUHK has achieved a leading 
 position in anti-cancer drug development and local population are provided 
 with opportunities for improved access to new cancer treatment, a process 
 that has been widely supported by the Hong Kong community.
The 
 Opening Ceremony of the "9th Annual Scientific Symposium of The Hong 
 Kong Cancer Institute - Anti-Cancer Drug Development", the annual event 
 organized by the Institute to provide a forum for cancer experts worldwide 
 to look into the latest development in treatment of cancer, took place 
 today. Also held in conjunction was the Cheque Presentation Ceremony 
 of the Round-the-CU-Walkathon. Dr Edgar W K Cheng, Chairman of the University 
 Council, CUHK and Professor Ambrose Y C King, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK 
 officiated at the ceremony. Professor Sydney Chung, Dean of Medicine, 
 on behalf of the Hong Kong Cancer Institute, received the donation raised 
 in the Round-the-CU-Walkathon. Prizes were also presented to the two 
 winner teams: Chung Chi College Team for largest number of walkers and 
 Hang Seng Bank Team for raising the highest amount of donation. 
 

 
