[title]Chinese University Department of Economics Ranked Top in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]3 January 2005[/date]


 Chinese University Department of Economics Ranked Top in Hong Kong 
 
 
A survey conducted by the Hong Kong Economic Journal Monthly 
 has ranked the Department of Economics of The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong (CUHK) as first among all university economics programmes 
 provided in seven local universities. The survey found the CUHK Department 
 of Economics as first in all three criteria-overall research performance, 
 proportion of teaching staff with doctoral degrees, and employers' 
 evaluation of graduates.
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University, said, 
 "I am most delighted that excellence in scholarship of the Chinese 
 University is once again recognized. This is the result of the hard 
 work of our staff and students. Since the inception of CUHK, the Department 
 of Economics has been striving for excellence. Its teaching and research 
 have reached the highest standards. We are so privileged to have Professor 
 Sir James Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, to serve 
 as our Distinguished Professor-at-Large."
According 
 to the survey, the teaching staff of the CUHK Department of Economics 
 had the highest per capita publication output in international academic 
 journals. Moreover, the work ability, work attitude and language ability 
 of its graduates were highly rated by employers. Professor Sung Yun 
 Wing, Chairman of the Department of Economics, said, "We put a strong 
 emphasis on research, and we are particularly renowned for research 
 in economic theory, labour economics and Chinese economy. We have 
 the widest course selection among the local universities. We focus 
 on both theories and application, providing our students with a comprehensive 
 training and a solid foundation. We have a lot of Mainland and exchange 
 students, giving students an international learning environment. The 
 Department will continue to grow. We will offer some new courses such 
 as experimental economics, and economics and law. We will also recruit 
 more teaching staff."
Over 
 the years, the CUHK Department of Economics has nurtured many distinguished 
 alumni, who have contributed in different sectors of the community. 
 They include Mr. Vincent Cheng, HSBC Chairman designate; Mr. Kwok 
 Kwok Chuen, Government Economist; Mr. Edward Leung, Chief Economist 
 of the Trade Development Council; and Mr. Joseph Pang, Executive Director 
 and Deputy Chief Executive of Bank of East Asia. Moreover, teaching 
 staff of the Department are prominent in community services as advisors 
 and consultants to governments and other organizations. 



 
