[title]HONG KONG'S BIOTECH INSTITUTE TO OPEN A NEW GMP MULTIPURPOSE PURIFICATION PILOT PLANT[/title]

[date]30 June 2004[/date]


 HONG KONG'S BIOTECH INSTITUTE TO OPEN 
 A NEW GMP MULTIPURPOSE PURIFICATION PILOT PLANT 
 
To further enhance Hong Kong's strong position in biotechnology research 
 and product development, the Hong Kong Institute of Biotechnology (HKIB), 
 a wholly owned subsidiary of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, had 
 designed and constructed a new biotechnology and plasma-derived therapeutics 
 downstream pilot GMP facility which is funded by the Innovation and 
 Technology Programme of The Innovation and Technology Fund of the Hong 
 Kong SAR Government. The new Plant serves as a multipurpose protein 
 purification platform for the production of clinical grade materials 
 with built-in biopharmaceutical manufacturing systems in accordance 
 with Hong Kong and China Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements. 
 
"The 
 new Plant is an important element in our goal to make Hong Kong the 
 city of biotechnology," said Prof. Walter Ho, Managing Director of HKIB. 
 "By continuing to support this critical industry, from initial research 
 to manufacturing, we are ensuring that the industry continues to grow 
 and develop." 
The 
 new Plant is designed to enhance HKIB's multifaceted relationships with 
 industry, academic and government institutes. It also permits acceleration 
 of basic and applied product research in partnership with industry such 
 as the project sponsor, Advantek Biologics Limited, which will make 
 use of the Plant to develop plasma-derived therapeutics using technologies 
 licensed from Amersham Biosciences (a business unit of General Electric 
 Company, NYSE: GE), New York Blood Center and Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation 
 (TSE: 3407). The targeted markets for these products include a wide 
 spectrum of diseases such as primary immune deficiency, lupus, Hepatitis 
 B and rabies. According to Dr. Bing Lou Wong, CEO of Advantek, it is 
 the first step of a series of initiatives jointly undertaken in Hong 
 Kong and China to help alleviate the severe shortage of the US$8 billion 
 global plasma therapeutic market.
 CUHK 
 and The Board of Directors of HKIB are grateful that the Hong Kong SAR 
 Government continues to support the vision of HKIB and expand its missions. 
 HKIB will continue to make positive impacts on the industrial front 
 for Hong Kong and new efforts to promote and attract biotechnology RandD 
 and investments. 
About 
 HKIB 
Hong 
 Kong Institute of Biotechnology Ltd. (HKIB), a subsidiary of the Council 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, is a non-profit private company 
 founded in 1989 with a donation from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities 
 Trust. In 2003, The Chinese University Institute of Biotechnology (CUIB) 
 has been formed as a parallel organization to reflect the direction 
 relationship between the University and the Institute. Since the inception, 
 HKIB has set itself up as an outward-looking, market-aligned downstream 
 development organization and has been the leading force in promoting 
 the development of the biotechnology- and Chinese Medicine-based industries 
 within Hong Kong and in the Greater China Region. Its mission is to 
 advance applied academic research and to provide the vital link between 
 technology transfer and product commercialization. 
About 
 Advantek 
Advantek 
 Biologics Limited is engaged in the RandD, commercialization, manufacture, 
 marketing and sale of plasma-derived therapeutics, and research and 
 diagnostic reagents. Advantek is the first and only Hong Kong-based 
 protein therapeutics manufacturer. To reflect a mission of bringing 
 safe protein therapeutics to patients in need, particularly those living 
 in developing countries, Advantek has adopted "Saving Lives Through 
 Safe Biologics" as corporate motto. 
 
 

 
