[title]Naming Ceremony of the William M. W. Mong Engineering Building and Inauguration Ceremony of Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering[/title]

[date]25 October 2004[/date]


 Naming Ceremony of the William M. W. Mong Engineering Building 
 and
 Inauguration Ceremony of Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering 
 
 
The Naming Ceremony of the William M. W. Mong Engineering Building 
 and Inauguration Ceremony of Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering 
 (SHIAE) is held today on the campus of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong (CUHK). Officiating guests include Dr William M. W. Mong, Chairman 
 and Senior Managing Director of Shun Hing Group, Mr David Mong, Chairman 
 of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Ms Cheung Man-yee, Vice-Chairman 
 of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Professor Lawrence J. Lau, 
 Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Professor 
 Peter Yum, Dean of Engineering, CUHK, Professor Benjamin W. Wah, Franklin 
 W. Woeltge Endowed Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer 
 Engineering University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, USA and Professor 
 Ching Pak-chung, Director of Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering.
The 
 Engineering Building is named after Dr William M. W. Mong, in appreciation 
 of his magnanimous contribution over three decades in support of academic, 
 research and technology development of the Chinese University. Rising 
 over 13 storeys and covering a total area of 13,862 square metres, 
 the William M. W. Mong Engineering Building is located on the central 
 campus. The Building provides purpose-designed and state-of-the-art 
 teaching and laboratory facilities for the Departments of Automation 
 and Computer-Aided Engineering, Information Engineering, and Systems 
 Engineering and Engineering Management. It is equipped with a multi-media 
 lecture theatre with 243 seats. With the opening of this new Building, 
 CUHK will be able to develop teaching and research in the engineering 
 field, especially in the information and communication technologies.
CUHK 
 received further generous donation from Shun Hing Education and Charity 
 Fund to establish Shun Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering (SHIAE). 
 SHIAE will spearhead state-of-the-art advanced engineering research, 
 create and sustain synergy with world-class researchers, transfer 
 to industries cutting-edge technologies, and promote appreciation 
 of engineering in society through education programmes.
SHIAE 
 will initially focus its research in two specialized areas: Biomedical 
 Engineering, and Multimedia Technologies. CUHK's Engineering and Medical 
 Faculties have collaborated in developing interactive computer-based 
 technologies with wide applications in the medical field. A number 
 of projects have already achieved great success, these include: virtual 
 acupuncture, virtual bronchoscopy, and virtual arthroscopy. Another 
 significant project is the Chinese Visible Human Project, in which 
 several ultra-high resolution digital human datasets were successfully 
 collected and processed. SHIAE will make further commitment in the 
 research development of bio-nano sensor, medical imaging and other 
 medical devices. In the area of multimedia technologies, CUHK will 
 further pursue research in information retrieval, digital game, human-computer 
 interaction, multilingual speech recognition and synthesis, and multimedia 
 communication system.
Mr 
 David Mong, Chairman of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund will 
 chair the Advisory Board of SHIAE as its inaugural chairman. At the 
 ceremony, Mr David Mong said, "The setting up of SHIAE aims not only 
 at achieving good results in engineering research but is also destined 
 to create the best research centre of the world in ten years. When 
 that happens, the honour will belong to all Hong Kong people."
"I 
 firmly believe that advanced engineering research will make Hong Kong 
 an education-based society and an economy that produces high value-added 
 goods and services. But, what is most important is that the results 
 of advanced technological research benefits all mankind and improves 
 our quality of life," Mr Mong said.
The 
 Advisory Board members includes experts from renowned universities 
 and research institutes around the world. One of the Board members, 
 Professor Benjamin W. Wah, Franklin W. Woeltge Endowed Professor, 
 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois, 
 Urbana-Champaign, USA attended and addressed the ceremony this morning. 
 Other Board members include Professor Victor Zue, Professor of Electrical 
 Engineering and Computer Science, Co-Director of the Institute's Computer 
 Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MIT, Dr Harry Shum, 
 Managing Director of Microsoft Research Asia, Professor Yongmin Kim, 
 Professor and Chair Bioengineering, University of Washington, Professor 
 Nicholas Ayache, Research Director of The French Research Institute 
 of Computer Science and Automatic Control, Professor Jack C. Y. Cheng, 
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, 
 CUHK, and Professor Peter Yum, Dean of Engineering and Professor of 
 Information Engineering, CUHK. Professor Ching Pak-chung, Head of 
 Shaw College and Professor of Electronic Engineering, CUHK, is the 
 Director of SHIAE.
Since 
 it's establishment in 1984, Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund has 
 donated approximately HK$300 million towards projects that benefit 
 education, healthcare, recreation, sports and environmental protection 
 over the years. Dr William M. W. Mong has been a staunch supporter 
 of CUHK for over 30 years. With his generous donation, CUHK has been 
 able to establish laboratories, scholarship funds, research facilities 
 and launch innovative research. Thanks to the generous support of 
 Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund in 2003, Chair Professorship 
 of Mathematics was set up at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences 
 in CUHK. 
From 
 left to right:
 Professor Benjamin W. Wah, Franklin W. Woeltge Endowed Professor, 
 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois, 
 Urbana-Champaign, USA, and Member of the Advisory Board, Shun Hing 
 Institute of Advanced Engineering, CUHK
 Professor Peter Yum, Dean of Engineering, CUHK
 Ms Cheung Man-yee, Vice-Chairman, Shun Hing Education and Charity 
 Fund 
 Dr William M. W. Mong, Chairman and Senior Managing Director, Shun 
 Hing Group
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK
 Mr David Mong, Chairman, 
 Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund 
 Professor Ching Pak-chung, Director, Shun 
 Hing Institute of Advanced Engineering, CUHK



 
