[title]CUHK Scientist Solves a Four-decade Mystery of Sperm Maturation[/title]

[date]3 May 2004[/date]


 CUHK Scientist Solves a Four-decade Mystery of Sperm Maturation
 Novel Gene Found Responsible for Sperm Motility 
 
Sperm 
 do not intrinsically possess the ability to swim or fertilize the egg 
 when they are first produced by the testis, but acquire these abilities 
 through a process called sperm maturation in the epididymis situated 
 next to the testis. How sperm becomes mature in the epididymis remains 
 a puzzle since up still now no gene of epididymis-origin that is involved 
 in the process of sperm maturation has been found despite nearly four 
 decades of search.
A recent 
 study published by Nature Cell Biology that was conducted at the Epithelial 
 Cell Biology Research Centre of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 has revealed the first secret of sperm maturation, demonstrating that 
 Bin1b, a £]-defensin gene found in the head region of the epididymis 
 can bind to sperm head and induce progressive sperm motility in originally 
 immotile immature sperm.
Professor 
 Chan Hsiao-Chang, director of the Research Centre, explains, progressive 
 movement of sperm is one of the fundamental changes associated with 
 early process of sperm maturation. Thus, £]-defensin is the first molecule 
 found in the epididymis that is involved in the initiation of sperm 
 maturation. It could be used as a biomarker for diagnosis of male infertility 
 or for treatment and may lead to new research in this area. The findings 
 also provide grounds for development of new contraceptive strategies. 
 Studies on the detailed mechanisms how Bin1b interacts with sperm membrane 
 proteins are already in the pipelines and plans to examine Bin1b expression 
 in infertile patients are also in place. Some of the planned studies 
 have received support from Lalor Foundation in USA.
The 
 investigation of the role of the novel epididymis-specific gene, Bin1b 
 is a collaborative project of the Centre with the Shanghai Institute 
 of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Previous 
 work on Bin1b for its antimicrobial activity was published in Science 
 in 2001. Together with the previous findings, the present results suggest 
 that Bin1b plays dual role in the epididymis, both as a defensin and 
 a regulator of sperm maturation.
 
The 
 Epithelial Cell Biology Research Centre, established as a joint effort 
 of the Academy of Military Medical Sciences and CUHK, is the first integrated 
 research institution ever founded in China which is devoted to epithelial 
 cell biology research. The epithelium is a continuous layer of cells 
 that covers external body surface and forms lining of body cavities 
 and exocrine glands. Disturbance of epithelial cell functions give rise 
 to a wide spectrum of common disorders such as diarrhoea and lethal 
 diseases including cancers. Reproductive biology with focus on the role 
 of reproductive tract epithelia in spermatogenesis and sperm maturation, 
 fertilization and implantation is one of the major research directions 
 of the Centre. 
 

 
