[title]Experts Propose Ways to Boost Women Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong and Shenzhen[/title]

[date]23 June 2005[/date]


Experts 
 Propose Ways to Boost 
 Women Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong and Shenzhen 
 
A recent study of the Chinese University of Hong Kong reveals 
 that both Hong Kong and Shenzhen have an encouraging and supportive 
 environment for women entrepreneurs, and women tend to be much more 
 sensitive than men to conditions in their local environment. 
At 
 the "Women Entrepreneurs in Hong Kong and Shenzhen Forum" 
 organized by The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Center for 
 Entrepreneurship and the Hong Kong Women Professionals and 
 Entrepreneurs Association Limited (HKWPEA) today, researchers 
 revealed the study findings showing that only 3% of the adult population 
 recently started businesses in Hong Kong. The corresponding figure 
 for Shenzhen is around 11%. In Hong Kong, the proportion of men 
 to women entrepreneurs is approximately three to one while the ratio 
 in Shenzhen is around two to one. In low-income countries, more 
 women are necessity-based entrepreneurs in order to circumvent unemployment 
 and to get out of poverty. Hence, there are more women in Shenzhen 
 than in Hong Kong to start businesses to take advantage of opportunities. 
 
Women 
 entrepreneurs in two cities differed. In Hong Kong, most women entrepreneurs 
 are between the ages of 25-34 and 35-44 years. In Shenzhen, more 
 are found to be of 25-34 years. Compared with Shenzhen, fewer Hong 
 Kong women entrepreneurs have post secondary education which suggested 
 that highly educated women have access to very attractive job opportunities 
 in the private and public sectors and therefore do not choose to 
 start their own businesses. In both cities, the majority of women 
 involved in startup hold other jobs concurrently. They also possess 
 the knowledge, skill and experience required to start their own 
 businesses. 
Regarding 
 the financial profile and growth potential, 88% of Hong Kong women 
 entrepreneurs invest an average of HK$420,000 in their new businesses 
 while in Shenzhen, the amount is about HK$50,000. Worldwide, most 
 businesses headed by women tend to be smaller than those headed 
 by men. The businesses also tend to be in non-growth sectors such 
 as retail and food. 
More 
 than 80 experts from government, industry and academia nationwide 
 were interviewed to evaluate the framework conditions that affect 
 entrepreneurial activity. It is found that both Hong Kong and Shenzhen 
 have an environment that encourages and supports women to be entrepreneurs. 
 
To 
 boost women entrepreneurship, the CUHK research team recommends 
 that entrepreneurial education should be provided at university 
 and postgraduate level to help women identify business opportunities 
 and get hold of new technologies, markets and entrepreneurial skills. 
 Professor Bee-Leng Chua, Director of the Center for Entrepreneurship 
 said, "There should also be continuing efforts to encourage equal 
 benefits for women in the workforce. Policy makers, families and 
 the community should work to instill fundamental aspects of the 
 entrepreneurial mindset and to increase the attractiveness of entrepreneurship 
 as an income producing activity for women even when they have access 
 to jobs in other sectors. Also, low income women in Hong Kong face 
 more barriers if they want to start a new business. These include 
 high cost of property rental and salaries to workers, availability 
 of financing and knowledge of how to evaluate potential business 
 opportunities. All in all, it is crucial to give practical support 
 to women who aspire to entrepreneurs. While they may find corporate 
 jobs attractive, they could also see that an entrepreneurial career 
 may be a realistic option to be pursued." 
This 
 study reports findings of women entrepreneurs in Hong Kong and Shenzhen 
 for 2003 and 2004. The 4000 adult population sample yielded 31 Hong 
 Kong and 128 Shenzhen women entrepreneurs who started new businesses. 
 The study is also part of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 
 (GEM) Hong Kong and Shenzhen 2004. GEM, founded by Babson College 
 and the London Business School in 1999, is an international project 
 that measures early stage entrepreneurial activity annually. It 
 is the largest single study of early stage entrepreneurship in the 
 world. Hong Kong joined GEM in 2002. 43 economies have participated 
 in one or more years of the study since its launch, with 35 economies 
 participating in the 2004 exercise. In 2004, GEM produced the Report 
 on Women and Entrepreneurship to provide an in-depth global look 
 at women's entrepreneurship and highlights the important role that 
 women play in developing and developed economies. 
GEM 
 generates the Total Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Index which defines 
 an entrepreneur as someone who is currently participating as an 
 equity stakeholder in either a business start-up where work has 
 been done to effect the start-up but wages have been paid for less 
 than three months, or a new firm which is less than 42 months old 
 at the time of survey. 
The 
 GEM Hong Kong team is led by Professor Bee-Leng Chua, Director of 
 the CUHK's Center for Entrepreneurship and composed of Professor 
 Hugh Thomas and Professor Kevin Au, Associate Directors of the Centre, 
 as well as Professors David Ahlstrom, Low Chee Keong and Shige Makino 
 from CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration and Professor Kwok 
 Siu Tong from the Faculty of Arts. The Shenzhen team is led by Le 
 Zheng, Director of the Shenzhen Academy of Social Sciences, with 
 team members Wang Weili and Dong Xiaoyuan. 
The 
 Hong Kong Women Professionals and Entrepreneurs Association Limited 
 (HKWPEA) is a non-profit organization established in September 
 1996 by a group of local women professionals and entrepreneurs to 
 promote best practices in business, government and enterprise. With 
 a strong support network, HKWPEA establishes relationships with 
 counterparts in Mainland China and abroad. It organizes the Outstanding 
 Women Professionals and Entrepreneurs Award to honor and celebrate 
 the achievements of women who have made significant contribution 
 to their professions, Hong Kong's business environment and society. 
 It's Business Start-up Assistance Scheme for Women aims to help 
 less fortunate and unemployed women create self-employment by starting 
 their own businesses. 
 



 
