[title]Regular Tai Chi Helps Prevent Osteoporosis and Risks of Fragility Fractures[/title]

[date]5 November 2005[/date]


Regular Tai Chi Helps Prevent Osteoporosis and Risks of Fragility Fractures
 Age-related osteoporosis is a universal health problem particularly among post-menopausal women. The consequence of osteoporosis with menopause is the increase in risks of fractures and associated mobility and mortality. Osteoporotic fractures are the fifth most commonly occurring condition in the past medical history of elderly Chinese women. This becomes a heavy economic burden to the medical sector.
Significant reduction in the rate of bone loss has been demonstrated in post-menopausal women who have participated in a Tai Chi intervention programme conducted by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The reduction is particularly significant in weight-bearing bones.
Urbanization brings about lifestyle changes that increase the risk of chronic disease. The WHO Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health are among the instrument that allow us to reach out across sectors and to build healthy communities and populations. This study, conducted by the CUHK, not only contributes to clinical science, but also helps promote an active lifestyle to the general public, said Dr. Shigeru Omi, the regional director of the WHO Regional Office for the Western Pacific when attending the 2nd Asia-Pacific Conference on Health Promotion 2nd International Conference on Tai Chi Chuan held at The Postgraduate Education Centre of The Chinese University of Hong Kong on 5 November.
We all know that regular physical exercise is an indispensable element of healthy lifestyle and the findings of the study reaffirms our belief that low impact exercise such as Tai Chi Chuan, with its intrinsic beneficial effects, shall not only be promoted among more mature members of society but should also be promoted in a wider spectrum of age groups, said Dr. York Chow, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food during the opening ceremony of the conferences.
Though regular Tai Chi exercise generally did not stop bone loss among the post-menopausal women, it is helpful in retarding bone loss. This is important to post-menopausal women as they are facing rapid bone loss after onset of menopause, said Prof. Kai-ming Chan, the Director of CUHK-WHO Collaborating Centre for Sports Medicine and Health Promotion.
A total of 156 participants were recruited in this study. After practicing Tai Chi for 45 minutes a day, 5 days per week for a year, the menopausal women aged between 40-60 also get improvement in muscle strength, body flexibility and co-ordination. When compared to the control group who did not get regular exercise, the Tai Chi group did significantly better in tests of muscle strength, body flexibility and co-ordination.
Allied health professionals have put enormous efforts on promoting an active lifestyle among the elderly. In fact, active living is a concept that applies to all. The earlier one engages in regular exercise, the more likely s/he is going to enjoy a healthy body in later life, Prof. Chan added.
In the recent 2005 Bone and Joint Decade (BJD) annual meeting in Ottawa, which is a global movement endorsed by WHO and UN, the importance of exercise in the overall management of osteoporosis was reconfirmed. During the meeting, the CUHK-WHO Collaborating Centre for Sports Medicine and Health Promotion was authorized to take up the coordinating role in the Asia-Pacific region. The emphasis is to maintain the sustainable momentum to promote, to educate and to research in the specific musculoskeletal conditions such as osteoporosis and joint disorders.
The study also acts as an evaluation for the two tests involved in Bone Mineral Density (BMD) measurements. The superiority of Peripheral Quantitative Computer Tomography (pQCT) over Dual-Energy X-ray Densitometry (DXA) is in its ability to provide a separate measurement of cortical bone and metabolically more active trabecular bone. pQCT for trabecular bone measurement enables a three-fold earlier detection of BMD changes. When detection of BMD changes is needed in clinical trials or research, pQCT is suggested for earlier results, said Prof. Ling Qin, Professor of Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, the CUHK.
According to the post-programmed evaluation on subjects¡¦ general health perception, CUHK studies revealed that 38.3% of the Tai Chi group participants become more active by increasing other kinds of exercise; 37.0% of them become happier after exercise; 16.1% felt improvement in balance and pain reduced in joint; 13.6% get fewer diseases. In addition, a 2-3-fold reduction of fractures was also found in Tai Chi exercisers. 
After joining the exercise programme, I feel I am more energetic in my daily living. I was once suffered from depression. With regular exercise, I find myself in a better mood and feel good to myself. Though the project has ended, I still keep practice Tai Chi regularly by myself, one of the participants said. 


 
