[title]Survey Results on the public's perceptions on recovered SARS patients Released[/title]

[date]22 March 2004[/date]


 Survey Results on the public's perceptions on recovered SARS patients 
 Released 
 
The Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the School of Public 
 Health of The Chinese University of Hong Kong conducted the captioned 
 survey in January 2004, which successfully interviewed 400 Hong Kong 
 Chinese residents. The results are as follows:
About 
 90% of the citizens in Hong Kong believed that SARS can be transmitted 
 via droplets and formites; about half of them believed that it can be 
 transmitted via aerosols; 90% believed that it can be transmitted via 
 the sewage system; 75% believed that it can be transmitted via rats 
 and cockroaches; 66% via pets. Hence, SARS is believed to be highly 
 infectious and being transmittable via multiple modes and channels.
The 
 general public is overestimating the mortality rate of SARS among patients 
 of age less than 60; only 14% correctly believed that it is below 10% 
 (the actual figure for this age group is around 5% in Hong Kong). 83% 
 believed that there was no effective medication available. 72% believed 
 that severe and permanent damages would have occurred to recovered patients 
 and a same percentage believed that these patients would have a very 
 poor health in the very long term; 44% believed that at the time of 
 the survey, recovered SARS patients are unable to manage demanding job 
 duties. The survey shows that citizens associated SARS with high mortality, 
 lack of treatment and poor health sequale.
16% 
 of the respondents believed that SARS could be asymptomatic and 75% 
 of the citizens believed that the virus could be transmitted via asymptomatic 
 patients. Further, 25% believed that there were currently many asymptotic 
 SARS cases present in the community.
10% 
 of the citizens thought that even at 18 months after full recovery, 
 SARS patients are still able to transmit the virus to others (62% stated 
 the reverse and 22% answered don't know). 15% of the citizens thought 
 that at the time of the survey, dining together with recovered patients 
 might contract the virus. These beliefs may increase doubts and anxiety 
 among those who are contracting recovered SARS patients.
Many 
 citizens would avoid having daily contacts with recovered SARS patients: 
 avoid shaking hands (16%), avoid dining together (17%), avoid working 
 together (13%), avoid having close contacts (22%), avoid using escalators 
 together (15%), avoiding letting their children to make close contacts 
 with these recovered patients (22%), worry about being infected by recovered 
 patients and avoid social interaction with them (20%). About 1/3 would 
 have at least one of the above-mentioned avoidance tendencies. It shows 
 that many citizens would avoid interacting with recovered SARS patients. 
 These may result in discriminatory attitudes or behaviors.
Further, 
 many believed that at the time of the survey, recovered SARS patients 
 should avoid serving in some occupations: food catering (30%), teaching 
 (24%), medical and nursing care (23%) and child care (27%).
Yet, 
 about 80% of the respondents saidt they would express their care towards 
 SARS patients, if they had a chance to meet with them.
Those 
 who were older, those who believed that SARS is associated with a high 
 mortality, those who believed that SARS could be transmitted via patients 
 that had been recovered for 18 months or more, those who believed that 
 SARS is associated with serious health sequale and those who still felt 
 bothered by SARS were more able to have tendencies for avoiding SARS 
 patients or displaying potentially discriminatory attitudes.
The 
 Director of the Centre, Prof Joseph Tak Fai Lau concluded, citizens 
 believed that SARS is associated with high mortality, lack of treatment, 
 poor health sequale and is hence an important disease. Many respondents 
 believed that it is highly infectious, such as it could be transmitted 
 via aerosols etc. and many respondents still felt emotionally disturbed 
 by the disease. It is hence expected that some of the citizens would 
 avoid recovered SARS patients or even showed discriminatory attitudes. 
 The health authorities should therefore provide correct information 
 on the mood of transmission, effectiveness of treatment, long-term health 
 sequale, and asymptomatic properties.
Professor 
 Lau continued, for instance, there is no evidence that patients having 
 recovered for some time should still be carrying the virus and there 
 is no evidence that there are many asymptotic cases in the community, 
 nor that they would be able to transmit the diseases. Misconceptions 
 could easily be translated into discriminatory attitudes or behaviors. 
 Provision of updated and correct information therefore is an important 
 means to avoid discrimination. 
 

 
