[title]Normal Range of Cardio-respiratory Fitness for Chinese Adults Established[/title]

[date]24 February 2005[/date]


 Normal Range of Cardio-respiratory Fitness for Chinese Adults Established
 
Low levels of cardio-respiratory fitness have proven to be associated 
 with a higher risk of premature death from all causes, specifically 
 from cardiovascular disease. However, there has been no study conducted 
 to describe the aerobic capacity norms in healthy Chinese.
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong has conducted in 2003 - 2004 the first 
 cross-sectional study of the aerobic capacity of healthy Chinese aged 
 from 20 to 64 with an aim to investigate their cardio-pulmonary fitness. 
 221 female and 196 male subjects with no pervious history of cardiopulmonary 
 disease were recruited from the community. Symptom limited maximal 
 exercise testing on an electrically braked bicycle was performed to 
 assess the maximum aerobic capacity (VO2max), where the participant 
 was connected to a calibrated metabolic cart for gas analysis. Their 
 body composition data were also assessed.
The 
 results show that maximal heart rate, maximal ventilation and oxygen 
 uptake decreased with age, while the percentage of body fat increased 
 with age in both genders. The decline in aerobic power in both Chinese 
 females and males over time was found to depend on aging and body 
 composition. The worst age group was the group of 25 to 34 years followed 
 by the age group of 35 to 44. Interestingly, a recent report from 
 Hong Kong Centre for Health Protection also stated that 30% of Hong 
 Kong population lacks regular exercises, which is consistent with 
 this study of which a decrease of aerobic capacity in that age group 
 was shown. In addition, subjects in this study showed a significantly 
 lower cardio-respiratory fitness levels in both male and female when 
 compared with their counterparts in USA as reported by the Cooper 
 Institute for Aerobic Research, TX.
The 
 normal range of aerobic power in Chinese obtained in the study provides 
 a valuable reference to assess health and fitness in Chinese objectively. 
 This reference range could be used as a guideline for comparative 
 analysis between individuals or groups on a variety of measures relating 
 to fitness. This guideline can further be used for comparing individuals 
 or groups to their peers for risk assessment or identifying those 
 individuals where fitness may be deteriorating at an unusual rate.
Results 
 from this study also suggested that percentage of body fat and lean 
 body mass were important determinants of the decline in aerobic power 
 observed over time. With these guidelines, the School of Public Health 
 has designed its lifestyle modification programmes accordingly to 
 help improve fitness and overall health of the general public, targeting 
 individuals' need using standard methods and assessments. With the 
 applications of our programmes, we will be able to advance the overall 
 conscience of adopting a healthy lifestyle for people in Hong Kong. 
 (Enquiry hotline: 22528766, 22528765 or 22528831) 

From 
 left to right:
Professor 
 Samuel Y. S. WONG, Assistant Professor, Department of Community and 
 Family Medicine, CUHK
 Professor Jean WOO, Director, School of Public Health, CUHK
Mr 
 Chi Kei LI, Exercise Instructor, Centre for Nutritional Studies, School 
 of Public Health, CUHK



 
