[title]Drug-Associated Heat Stroke[/title]

[date]16 August 2005[/date]


Drug-Associated 
 Heat Stroke
 
Exposure to high environmental temperature can cause heat stroke. 
 To have a better understanding why heat-related illnesses have occurred 
 in Hong Kong and what preventive measures are necessary, the Centre 
 for Food and Drug Safety of the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong analysed the cases that were admitted to 
 the Prince of Wales Hospital during 1998-2004. There were 15 males 
 and 6 females, including a 48-year-old man who was admitted twice. 
 Their age ranged from 20 to 88 years. Four subjects were over 65 
 years of age. Twelve subjects had heat stroke with different degrees 
 of organ damage and four required intensive care. Eight subjects 
 had heat exhaustion. One had heat syncope. Patients were discharged 
 after an average hospital stay of five days (range 1 to 15 days). 
 
Apart 
 from high environmental temperature, strenuous physical exertion 
 and other factors, drugs and alcohol could have contributed to the 
 heat-related illnesses in four subjects. A 48-year-old man receiving 
 an antipsychotic drug and an anticholinergic drug was admitted in 
 June 2004 because of heat stroke. He stayed in hospital for 13 days. 
 He was readmitted in August 2004 because of heat exhaustion. One 
 subject was receiving medicines for treatment of flu. One subject 
 had alcohol before strenuous physical work in the outdoor. 
A 
 number of drugs and herbs can affect the body's ability to regulate 
 body temperature during exercise or under environmental heat stress. 
 Anticholinergic drugs can inhibit sweating, thereby reducing heat 
 elimination. Antipsychotics have anticholinergic and central thermoregulatory 
 effects. The set point of the temperature- regulating centre can 
 be elevated by antipsychotics. Sympathomimetics can elevate the 
 body temperature by two mechanisms. Firstly, vasoconstriction decreases 
 skin blood flow and hence heat loss. Secondly, metabolic heat production 
 is increased. Diuretics, by causing volume depletion, and beta-blockers, 
 by impairing cardiac performance, may induce or worsen heat-related 
 illnesses. Certain herbs and drugs of abuse may impair thermoregulation 
 (e.g. anticholinergics in the Datura species) or increase metabolic 
 heat production (e.g. ephedrine, ecstasy, amphetamines and cocaine). 
 Alcohol can be dangerous in the heat, through depression of the 
 central nervous system and by causing diuresis and consequent dehydration. 
 Patients receiving these drugs and herbs should pay even more attention 
 to preventive measures against heat-related illnesses. Patients 
 should also consult their doctors and pharmacists about the possible 
 effects of these drugs on thermoregulation. 


 
