[title]James Hughes-Hallett Talks to CUHK EMBA Forum[/title]

[date]10 October 2003[/date]


 Doing Business in China: Myths, Hurdles, Successes and Aspirations
 James Hughes-Hallett Talks to CUHK EMBA Forum 
 
For the Swire Group, doing business in China has been a mix bag of 
 expensive lessons, delightful surprises and reaping of sweet fruits, 
 said James Hughes-Hallett, Chairman of Swire Pacific Ltd., Cathay Pacific 
 Airways Ltd. and John Swire and Sons (H.K.) Ltd. at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong's EMBA Forum held on 22 September 2003.
He has 
 learnt that certain popular beliefs about getting things done in China 
 are just myths. First is the perceived need to have a "local partner". 
 Swire has discovered in retrospect that, as a conglomerate with 52,000 
 Hong Kong Chinese on its payroll, a local partner is not only unnecessary, 
 but can cause problems later on.
Second, 
 the need for "guanxi" -- touted in the "How to" books on doing business 
 in China -- is over-exaggerated. Swire has been able to make its own 
 connections and get things done without resorting to "guanxi", notwithstanding 
 the widely-held "If you don't bribe, they won't buy" belief. This is 
 probably due to Swire's ability to bring significant employment opportunities.
Third, 
 it is, in reality, possible to repatriate profits from China, if you 
 follow the rules.
Swire's 
 experience in China has not been altogether a cakewalk, however. It 
 has, contrary to expectations, encountered difficulties in persuading 
 university graduates to move away from their hometowns. The company 
 has also over-estimated the power of a foreign brand, as proven in the 
 difficulty encountered in marketing the Carlsberg beer. It is a highly 
 competitive market, where a foreign label offers little premium. Besides, 
 the distribution system for beer is not quite the same as for tea.
Mr. 
 Hughes-Hallett is, however, delighted by its fantastic success in training 
 up 2,800 young engineers for an aircraft maintenance centre in Xiamen. 
 "It has the highest productivity per man hour in the world," he declared 
 with understandable pride. "Its quality is, according to Boeing, absolutely 
 the cutting-edge world standard," he added.
With 
 this and promising business potential evidenced by an annual sale of 
 five billion cans of Coke and a volume growth of 13-14 per cent, what 
 is next in Swire's plans?
Success 
 in China, says Mr. Hughes-Hallett, unequivocally. More and more, he 
 said, the company will need to focus on its core competency and shed 
 assets which have no such value. While its joint venture with CITIC 
 Pacific in the CITIC Square project in Shanghai has been a good experience, 
 it is clear that its competitive skill lies in building and managing 
 difficult, mixed-use development projects such as Pacific Place in Hong 
 Kong.
Regardless 
 of its aspirations for China, Swire is bullish about Hong Kong. In Mr. 
 Hughes-Hallett's view, Shanghai is not yet a competitor. Until there 
 is a code of law, adequate corporate governance and open accounting 
 in China, there is no way Shanghai can replace Hong Kong as Asia's financial 
 centre. There is a lot of talk about the high property rentals in Hong 
 Kong. However, according to Swire's annual office rental survey on key 
 locations in Asia, Hong Kong is cheaper than Beijing, Shanghai and even 
 Guangzhou. This, together with the competitive tax system and the high-quality 
 "software" such as human resources, Hong Kong has a lot to be optimistic 
 about, said Mr. Hughes-Hallett.
Mr. 
 Hughes-Hallett has been Chairman of the Swire Group since 1999. Prior 
 to that he has held various management positions in the Group's operations 
 in Asia and Australia. He holds a diversified portfolio of community 
 services. He is a council member of the University of Hong Kong, Trade 
 Development Council and the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts. 
 He is a member of the Hong Kong/Japan Business Co-operation Committee 
 and the Hong Kong/US Business Council of the HKTDC, the HK General Chamber 
 of Commerce General Committee, the Aviation Advisory Board and the Prot 
 and Maritime Board. He is Patron of the Community Advice Bureau and 
 a member of the Advisory Board of the Hong Kong Red Cross. He is also 
 a director of the HSBC Corporation.
Mr. 
 Hughes-Hallett graduated from Oxford University with a degree in English 
 Literature. He is a Fellow of the Society of Chartered Accountants in 
 England and Wales and an Honorary Fellow of The University of Hong Kong.
The 
 EMBA Forum featuring Mr. Hughes-Hallett was the first of a series of 
 similar talks for the 2003/4 academic year by business leaders in Hong 
 Kong. The EMBA Forum is organized by the EMBA Programme of CUHK and 
 is open to students and alumni of the University's EMBA and MBA Programmes. 
 The EMBA Forum with Mr. Hughes-Hallett was co-sponsored by the Asia 
 Pacific Institute of Business, the executive education arm of CUHK's 
 Faculty of Business Administration. 

 



 
