[title]CUHK New Method of Monitoring Intraocular Pressure for Glaucoma Patients at Home[/title]

[date]19 August 2004[/date]


 New Method of Monitoring Intraocular Pressure for Glaucoma Patients 
 at Home 
 
Glaucoma, which is an optic neuropathy (optic nerve damage) resulted 
 from an elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), is one of the leading 
 causes of blindness in Hong Kong and worldwide. About 3% of the population 
 aged 40 or above are suffering from glaucoma, i.e. amounting to about 
 100,000 patients in Hong Kong.
Dr. 
 Dexter Yu-Lung Leung, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor of the 
 Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences (DOVS), the Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong (CUHK) said, "Lowering the IOP adequately 
 is the most important treatment for glaucoma patients. Traditionally, 
 patients were treated based on IOP level measured in eye clinic. However, 
 studies have shown that diurnal fluctuations in IOP do occur. Sometimes, 
 the IOP level measured in eye clinic may not truly reflect the IOP 
 level at home for glaucoma patients. As a matter of fact, such variation 
 is a risk factor for further glaucoma damage to the optic nerve."
Professor 
 Dennis Shun-Chiu Lam, Chairman of the DOVS of CUHK stated, "Treatment 
 catering for IOP levels both in eye clinic and at home will be desirable. 
 In the past, attempts have been made to devise instruments for home 
 IOP monitoring. However, they were not accurate enough, not safe enough, 
 too expensive, or too complicated to operate."
Pressure 
 Phosphene Tonometer (PPT) is a new device using phosphene - a 
 visual sensation resulting from pressure applied through the eyelid 
 to the eyeball and then to the retina - to measure IOP. It was first 
 being used in America. Since January 2002, the DOVS of CUHK has been 
 conducting pioneering clinic studies on PPT. More than 300 patients 
 have been recruited to investigate the accuracy, safety and patients' 
 degree of acceptance in using the new device, in comparison with Goldmann 
 Applanation Tonometry, the gold standard for measuring IOP. The results 
 are encouraging and part of them will be published soon in "Investigative 
 Ophthalmology and Visual Science", a world-renowned journal with an 
 impact factor of 4.15. PPT is considered to be a good candidate for 
 home monitoring of IOP in suitable patients.
Professor 
 Lam supplemented, "PPT benefits most to glaucoma patients with large 
 diurnal fluctuations or to those whose IOP control is not yet stable. 
 The device may not be applicable to those with difficulty in hand 
 tremor; or those who fail to understand or perceive the phosphene; 
 or those with moderate to advanced glaucoma who will have too little 
 optic nerve function to perceive any useful phosphene."
"The 
 key to a successful self-tonometry is proper technique and training. 
 A beginner may not get the correct reading every time, but with experience 
 and maturing of technique, most of patients can!" Dr. Leung added. 
 
 

 
 

 
