[title]CUHK and CK Life Sciences jointly announce[/title]

[date]29 August 2003[/date]


The Chinese University and CK Life Sciences jointly announce
the pre-clinical findings of an anti-cancer product
 
A series of in-vitro and in-vivo pre-clinical studies for an anti-cancer 
 product developed by CK Life Sciences Int'l., (Holdings) Inc. ("CK Life 
 Sciences") were conducted by the Biochemistry Department of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong ("Biochemistry Department of CUHK"). Results 
 demonstrate that the immune cells in mice will be activated and the 
 human liver cancer cells in mice can be suppressed after the mice have 
 been fed the product. 
The pre-clinical findings 
 have prompted the two parties to carry the research one step forward, 
 and conduct clinical trials with the product. 
The leader of the pre-clinical 
 studies, Fung Kwok Pui, Professor of Biochemistry of CUHK, said, "CUHK 
 is a great supporter of technology research and our Biochemistry Department 
 is committed to excellence in both research and teaching. We are pleased 
 that commercial entities like CK Life Sciences are devoted to developing 
 new biotechnological medical products. We at CUHK will continue to evaluate 
 such products to ensure better treatment for patients, and to contribute 
 to the development of the biotechnology industry in Hong Kong." 
"This trial collaboration 
 with CK Life Sciences is a good example of cooperation between academic 
 and commercial entities. It leverages on the rich resources of commercial 
 corporation as well as the strong research capabilities of academic 
 institutions. Not only would such cooperation speed up the pace of research, 
 but also help to gain wider recognition for the study results," continued 
 Professor Fung. 
Hypothesis of CK Life 
 Sciences' Anti-cancer products
According to Professor 
 S F Pang, Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of CK Life Sciences, 
 the Group's anti-cancer products are made up of natural ingredients, 
 and do not have any side effects. These products fight against cancer 
 cells in three different ways: 1) increase the activity of cancer suppressing 
 substance which induce programmed cell death; 2) increase TNF-alpha 
 secretion, leading to cell death; and 3) enhance the human immune system 
 to combat cancer cells." 
Three Distinctive 
 Product Features 
 As pointed out by Prof Pang, CK Life Sciences' anti-cancer products 
 have been developed based on the Group's proprietary yeast-based technology. 
 Preliminary studies suggested the products have three distinctive features: 
 
1. Improve immune system 
 of cancer patients to combat the disease, reduce mortality rate, and 
 promote recovery from chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
2. Not only do these products 
 not produce side effects, they can lessen common side effects caused 
 by chemotherapy and radiotherapy, such as nausea, alopecia, bleeding, 
 edema and deterioration of immune system, resulting in better quality 
 of life for the patients. 
3. As the products are oral 
 prescription, complications and pain arising from surgery and injection 
 procedures can be avoided. Hospital stays can be reduced and medical 
 costs decreased. 
Results of Pre-clinical 
 Studies Conducted by the Biochemistry Department, CUHK
Three sets of trials 
 were conducted by the Biochemistry Department of CUHK to test the efficacy 
 of CK Life Sciences' anti-cancer product in activating cytokine secreting 
 cells and suppressing cancer cells. [Cytokines are small biological 
 factors (in the range of 5-20 kD) that are released by cells and have 
 specific regulatory effects on cell functions such as cell proliferation 
 and programmed cell death (apoptosis)]: 
 
1.
Trial Object:
Plasma samples of tumor-bearing mice

Trial Method:
After feeding the anti-cancer product to the mice for 14 days, blood 
 was drawn, plasma was prepared and cytokine levels were measured.

Trial Result:
IL-6 in the sample increased 38% 

Remarks:
IL-6 is a cytokine.  It is 
 secreted from activated T cells and macrophages.  It facilitates the B cells to differentiate into antibody-forming 
 cells.   

Conclusion:
It is indicated that the product induces T cells to secret IL-6 and enhances 
 the function of B cells in tumor-bearing mice.

2. 
Trial Object:
Splenocyte culture of tumor-bearing mice

Trial Method:
After feeding the anti-cancer product to the mice for 14 days, splenocyte 
 were cultured and the secreted cytokines were measured.

Trial Result:
IL-1£] in the sample increased 70%
No significant difference for IL-2 in the sample
IL-4 in the sample increased 71%
IL-6 in the sample increased 70%
IFN-g in the sample increased 55% 

Remarks:
- IL-1£] is a cytokine.  Released by activated macrophage and natural killer cells, 
 it is a potent immuno-modulator which mediates a wide range of 
 immune and inflammatory responses including the activation of 
 B and T cells.
- IL-2 is a cytokine.  Released 
 by T helper cells, it facilitates T cell proliferation and differentiation, 
 accelerates the growth of B cells, and activates monocyte and 
 natural killer cells.
- IL-4 is a cytokine.  It 
 is released from T cells and macrophages. It facilitates the B 
 cells differentiation and induces antibody-forming cells. 
- IFN is a group of proteins, which strengthens anti-virus immune response.  
 IFN have different forms. IFN-g is also known as immune interferon; it is released by lymphocytes.

Conclusion:
It is indicated that the product can enhance the immune response and 
 modulate the immune system.

3. 
Trial Object:
Human hepatoma cells-bearing nude mice

Trial Method:
Nude mice were fed with the anti-cancer product for 14 or 28 days, tumor 
 volume and weight were measured. 

Trial Result:
14-day Treatment Group
At 0.4 ml/day dosage tumor volume decreased 26%, tumor weight reduced 
 17%
At 0.8 ml/day dosage tumor volume decreased 54%, tumor weight reduced 
 29% 
28-day Treatment Group
At 0.4 ml/day dosage tumor volume decreased 36%, tumor weight reduced 
 52%
At 0.8 ml/day dosage tumor volume decreased 65%, tumor weight reduced 
 84%

Conclusion:
It is indicated that the product can suppress human tumor growth in mice.
Professor 
 Fung said, "The data from the pre-clinical studies indicates that the 
 anti-cancer product developed by CK Life Sciences has the ability to 
 strengthen the immune system in tumor-bearing mice and suppress the 
 growth of tumors in mice in a time- and dose-dependent manner - an encouraging 
 result indeed."
Product Development 
 Progress
 Up to date, a series of successful in-vitro and in-vivo pre-clinical 
 trials have been carried out for the anti-cancer products developed 
 by CK Life Sciences, and 18 anti-cancer product patent applications 
 have been submitted to the US Patent and Trademark Office. In order 
 to accelerate the research and development of its anti-cancer products, 
 CK Life Sciences plans to implement a global trial program which spans 
 six regions in four continents. Preparation for trials in Hong Kong, 
 Mainland China and Australia are already in place, whilst those for 
 trials in the US, Canada, and the UK are underway and are to begin later 
 in the year. 
"Following the encouraging 
 pre-clinical trial studies, we plan to conduct a formal clinical trial 
 for this product. Researchers from both CUHK and CK Life Sciences are 
 working intensively on the project currently and we hope the clinical 
 trials will begin this year. Both parties agree that effective cancer 
 treatment products are in great demand as cancer cases are increasing 
 globally. It is a pressing problem and we have to speed up the pace 
 of research. Biotechnology is an effective tool in achieving this purpose," 
 concluded Leung Ping Chung, Professor of Orthopaedics and Traumatology 
 of CUHK.

 
