[title]Corporate Success Hinges on Strategic Salesmanship[/title]

[date]10 September 2003[/date]


 The CUHK EMBA "New Thinking in Management" Series:
 Corporate Success Hinges on Strategic Salesmanship 
 
Strategic salesmanship is central to corporate success - and survival 
 -- in today's fast-paced, cut-throat competition environment, according 
 to Professors Andrew Chan and Leo Sin, co-hosts of the CUHK EMBA "New 
 Thinking in Management" Show aired on August 10, 2003.
What is "strategic salesmanship"?
It means using limited 
 resources to establish a competitive advantage; and creating and sustaining 
 a management model to achieve corporate targets. This involves analysis 
 of market opportunities, establishing a sales target and a plan for 
 execution and control.
Central to all this is 
 the need for a constant focus on the customer: who they are, and what 
 they need. To go further, what their hidden needs are.
The best illustration 
 is the current shopping boom brought by tourists from the Mainland. 
 Their favourite purchases - gold jewellery and baby formula - carry 
 a value over and above than what immediately meets the eye. They recognize 
 that the gold jewellery sold in Hong Kong is made of real gold, its 
 quality mandated by Government regulations. Similarly, baby formula 
 sold here is perceived to be genuine, and therefore reliable.
A company that is able 
 to identify its customers and their hidden needs, and can position itself 
 strategically, will have a leg up on its competition, particularly if 
 the competition is totally unaware of the potential opportunities or 
 misread the opportunities as threat.
Chapter 13 of the Sun 
 Tsi Military Strategy notes that a battle is a planned, strategic action. 
 The Boston Consulting Group also promotes the division of merchandise 
 and services into different categories to facilitate the formulation 
 of merchandise or service-specific sales strategy.
A bank, for example, may 
 have "sunset" products (i.e. low market share and growth potential) 
 such as piggy banks; "money makers" (i.e. high market share but low 
 growth potential) such as credit cards; "emerging stars" (high market 
 share and high growth potential) such as investment funds; and "maybes" 
 (low market share but high growth potential) such as customer data analysis 
 to help push sales in other products.
Special guest Mr. Adonis 
 Lau (General Manager (Guangdong) of Baleno Group) agreed that companies 
 need to think beyond the immediate use or value of the merchandise or 
 service they sell. In the highly-competitive garment retail sector, 
 for example, consumers' expectation of a garment extends beyond its 
 basic use (protection for the body); it is regarded as a tool for projecting 
 a specific image to achieve a specific goal.
He further emphasized 
 that in spite of the economic difficulties and the competition, a garment 
 retailer who has a clearly set goal, understanding and foresight for 
 consumer needs and who embraces change, will still succeed.
The above "New Thinking 
 in Management" programme was aired on RTHK on August 10, 2003. Co-hosts 
 were Professor Andrew Chan, Director of the CUHK EMBA Programme, Professor 
 Leo Sin of CUHK's Marketing Department and Jenny Lee of RTHK.
This programme, which 
 debuted on July 13, 2003 and will run until December, 2003, is a weekly 
 programme aired on Sunday, 2:00-4:00 pm. The first hour of the show 
 is dedicated to the co-hosts sharing their insights on the subject concerned. 
 The second hour is dedicated to interviews with a special guest. Listeners 
 can raise questions by phone, fax or e-mail during the second part of 
 the show. 
(front row) Ms 
 Jenny Lee, RTHK (left); Professor Leo Sin, Dept. of Marketing (right) 
 (back row) Professor C.F. Chan, Director of EMBA Programme (left); Mr. 
 Adonis Lau, General Manager(Guangdong) of Baleno Group (right) 

 
