[title]Collaborate in Advanced Terahertz Technology Research[/title]

[date]8 June 2003[/date]


CUHK and Leading Mainland Institutes
 Collaborate in Advanced Terahertz Technology Research 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) signed a collaborative 
 agreement on research and development of the most advanced terahertz 
 technology with the University of Electronic Science and Technology 
 of China and the Electronic and Information Science Research Institute, 
 Shenzhen in May 2003. At present, the only significant research teams 
 in Asia are based in Japan and Korea.
 
Terahertz science and 
 technology is the green turf and an important emerging field of research 
 that can produce a significant impact on medicine, engineering, science 
 and industries in the coming twenty years. Terahertz waves are a form 
 of electromagnetic wave whose frequency spectrum is sandwiched between 
 those of microwaves and optical waves. Unlike X-rays or ultraviolet 
 light, terahertz radiation is harmless to many biological cells, hence, 
 can be used to identify the fine details of or to image human cells 
 and organs, as well as to study DNA molecules. Terahertz waves can penetrate 
 through many materials, thus providing a powerful advantage for certain 
 remote sensing applications. Terahertz radiation can be used for studying 
 the structure of materials, environmental and pollution monitoring by 
 using terahertz spectroscopy, and ultra-wide bandwidth communication.
Terahertz wave is the 
 least studied and developed type of electromagnetic waves, with very 
 few related commercial products in the market. Huge investment worldwide 
 into the research and product development of terahertz science and technology 
 is anticipated.
The initial phase of the 
 collaborative research among the three leading institutions will focus 
 on medical, engineering and scientific applications. The Faculty of 
 Engineering of CUHK is well-established in research of microwaves and 
 optical waves and now takes the lead to collaborate the research strengths 
 and facilities of the University of Electronic Science and Technology 
 of China and the Electronic and Information Science Research Institute, 
 Shenzhen. Research will be carried out mainly in Hong Kong and Chengdu, 
 with system integration and potential product development conducted 
 in Shenzhen. Reciprocal visits and conferences will be held by the three 
 parties. 
Photograph 1: 
 
 The passive image of a hand at Terahertz frequency. The hand image was 
 taken through a thick pad of paper of 15mm. 
Photograph 
 2: 
 The hand surface temperature taken at Terahertz frequency through a 
 15mm-thick pad of paper.
 (Both 
 photographs 1 and 2 by courtesy of StarTiger, U.K. at http://www.startiger.org) 
 
Photograph 
 3:
 Terahertz generator is located at the Department of Electronic Engineering, 
 CUHK. The emitted radiation from the generator is collected by the parabolic 
 mirror in the back. 

 
