[title]CUHK Survey Shows Misperceptions on SARS Risk and Calls for Rationality in Facing the Disease[/title]

[date]10 June 2003[/date]


CUHK Survey Shows Misperceptions on SARS Risk
 and Calls for Rationality in Facing the Disease 
 
Professor Jia Jian-min of The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Department 
 of Marketing has conducted a survey about the risk perception of SARS 
 and coping behavior among 837 students from universities in Hong Kong, 
 Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Chengdu. The survey compares the difference 
 of risk perceptions of SARS and the corresponding coping behavior among 
 university students in different cities and aims to provide some insights 
 and suggestions regarding crisis management.
Survey Results
 ¡P When talking about 
 the SARS, Mainland students first think of death, then quarantine, 
 infection and face mask. For Hong Kong students, their immediate thought 
 is face mask, then medical workers, the Amoy Garden incident and death.
 ¡P An overwhelming majority 
 of respondents in all five cities (75%-93%) regard SARS as the number 
 one threat in the coming year, and they are worried about the recurrence 
 of this disease. However, for the next ten years, they think the number 
 one threat is AIDS.
 ¡P Respondents tend to 
 over-estimate the probability of personal infection of SARS and the 
 probability of dying after infection. In Hong Kong, Guangzhou and 
 Chengdu, around 40% of the respondents have suspected themselves of 
 being infected by SARS. This psychological fear makes them magnify 
 the chance of infection.
 ¡P Female respondents 
 perceive a higher risk from SARS and feel more threatened. In mid-May 
 2003, the probability of perceived personal infection of Hong Kong 
 female (2.9%) is twice higher than that of Hong Kong male (1.3%). 
 Thus, female was facing more psychological shock, leading to higher 
 occurrence of coping behaviors such as hand washing and using drugs.
 ¡P Of all the information 
 on SARS provided by the government, those about new infected cases, 
 new fatalities and new suspected cases have the greatest impact on 
 people's risk perception of SARS. People are more sensitive to information 
 of personal interest, such as whether their neighbours (at work and 
 at school) and friends are affected.
 ¡P Fear for SARS is induced 
 by three factors. First, the high mortality rate and the highly infectious 
 nature of the disease. Second, uncertainties about the incubation 
 period, cause of the disease, the effect of treatment and complications. 
 Third, external factor such as media report, the number of people 
 wearing masks.
 ¡P The SARS catastrophe 
 has greatly affected university students' study, especially in Hong 
 Kong (67%) and Beijing (57%). In the four Mainland cities, 10.3% to 
 16.3% students are now less confident about their future life and 
 career. A large portion of respondents (32.6% to 48.4%) acknowledged 
 that their ability of handling risk and managing risk has been strengthened.
 ¡P Compared with the four 
 Mainland cities, Hong Kong has the largest proportion (51.2%) of respondents 
 with diminished confidence towards their future life and career. Fewer 
 respondents (28.3%) think that their risk management ability has been 
 strengthened and the smallest percentage of respondents (37.8%) hold 
 a positive and optimistic view on the future economy.
 ¡P Among the five cities, 
 Hong Kong has the highest percentage of students wearing masks (96%); 
 while Chengdu has the largest proportion of respondents taking Chinese 
 medicine to prevent SARS (72%). Mainland students have previously 
 tried to reduce personal contact with other people such as visiting, 
 gatherings etc (74%-80%), avoid riding on public transport (73%-95%), 
 and reduce the frequency of shopping and dining out (81%-92%).
 ¡P In Guangzhou, only 
 27.9% of respondents believe the SARS-related information released 
 by the local government. However, an overwhelming percentage of respondents, 
 especially in Hong Kong (93.7%) and Beijing (82%) understand the mandatory 
 measures adopted by the government in stopping the spread of the disease. 
 71.5% of Shanghai respondents agree that the local government is controlling 
 the diseases effectively.
This survey shows clearly 
 that people over-estimate the risk of SARS. When people are feeling 
 scared, threatened and helpless, this kind of over-reaction is stronger. 
 Fast release of correct information helps people to construct a proper 
 perception on SARS. People also have no rational reference framework 
 in assessing the risk of SARS, which leads to an overestimation. For 
 example, in Hong Kong, over 3,000 people die annually from "typical" 
 pneumonia, 10 times that of SARS.
People are more sensitive 
 to "negative" (e.g. infected rate, death rate) than positive information 
 (e.g. recovery rate). Thus, the negative information poses a greater 
 impact on risk perception and assessment. Government and the media should 
 put more emphasis on the "positive" information.
"It is very important 
 to understand the underlying causes for misperceptions and misunderstanding 
 of SARS risk perception in order to help people develop a rational assessment," 
 said Professor Jia. "This is especially crucial as the SARS epidemic 
 is coming under control. The government should set up effective communication 
 mechanisms on SARS with the public and help them build up a positive 
 and rational attitude toward it." 
Attachment: SARSº­·ÀI»{¾ÎÀ³¹ï¦æ¬°½Õ¬d³ø§i¡]II¡^(Chinese 
 only) 

 
