[title]CUHK Researchers Solve the Mystery of Long-term Memory[/title]

[date]15 October 2004[/date]


 CUHK Researchers Solve the Mystery of Long-term Memory 
 
Scientists have known for a long time that memory can be divided 
 into two main types: short-term memory and long-term memory. Short-term 
 memory, which lasts for seconds to minutes, allows one to memorize, 
 say, a rarely used telephone number long enough to make a call, but 
 will be lost completely afterwards. Long-term memory, on the other 
 hand, lasts much longer and is resistant to removal. It is long-term 
 memory that is more important to our lives. Long-term memory is closely 
 related to our learning process. Patients with Alzheimer's Disease 
 lose their ability to memorize or recall old memories are not only 
 handicapped in daily lives, they lose also their own identities.
Researchers 
 at The Chinese University of Hong Kong, in collaboration with the 
 National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Cornell University in the 
 U.S., solves one of the long-standing mysteries in memory research: 
 what is the mechanism that converts short-term memory to long-term 
 memory? They found that a protein called brain-derived neurotrophic 
 factor (BDNF), which is well known to be a trophic factor for the 
 survival of neurons, is crucial in the formation of long-term memory. 
 Their results will be published today (15 October) in the prestigious 
 journal Science.
By 
 applying electrophysiological techniques on normal and gene knock-out 
 mice, these researchers show that in the hippocampus, a brain area 
 important for memory formation, BDNF is the only key protein required 
 for the expression of late-phase long-term potentiation, a cellular 
 model of long-term memory. The researchers also found that the synthesis 
 of the active form of BDNF is critically dependent on a seemingly 
 unrelated enzyme system in the body known as tPA/ plasmin, which may 
 provide hints for further research on the mechanism of long-term memory 
 formation.
One 
 could envisage that when we try to memorize, for instance, in preparation 
 for an examination, there is increased production and release of BDNF 
 in the brain. If the production of active BDNF is not functioning, 
 long-term memory formation will be hindered. Professor Yung Wing Ho, 
 Associate Professor at the Department of Physiology, CUHK and one 
 of the authors of the study, pointed out that it is too early to talk 
 about applications of the finding. But one thing is certain: the more 
 we know about the process of memory formation, the more likely we 
 could find drugs or other means to improve learning and memory in 
 normal subjects and subjects with memory disorders.
The 
 person who did the main part of the work is Ms Petti Pang, a PhD graduate 
 of CUHK's Faculty of Medicine. With a degree in physics Ms Pang entered 
 a PhD programme in the Physiology Department of CUHK with virtually 
 no research experience in life science. She received more than a year 
 of research training under the supervision of Professor Yung before 
 embarking on a collaborative project in Professor Lu Bai's laboratory 
 at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development of 
 NIH. She used only about 12 months of time to solve the mystery of 
 long-term memory formation.
Dr 
 Pang said: "The significance of this work is in pinpointing the key 
 role played by BDNF in long-term memory formation. My next target 
 is to work out the roles played by BDNF in other higher brain functions 
 such as cognition, calculation and logical thinking".
The 
 findings by CUHK researchers also have interesting implications in 
 another, even more mysterious question: the mechanism of forgetting, 
 which is the reverse of memorization. Specific hypotheses on this 
 question are now under the scrutiny of the research team. 

Ms 
 Petti Pang, the PhD graduate of CUHK's Faculty of Medicine, who did 
 the main part of the work. 
 
 
 

 
