[title]CUHK Organizes Executive Training Programme for the Hospitality and Tourism Industry[/title]

[date]20 January 2004[/date]


 CUHK Organizes Executive Training Programme for the Hospitality 
 and Tourism Industry
 
Fifty-eight top executives from 27 organizations of the Hospitality 
 and Tourism Industry in Hong Kong, Macau and Shenzhen gathered at a 
 Workshop at The Marco Polo Hongkong Hotel in Hong Kong on January 19 
 to 20, 2004.
 
The 
 two-day workshop on Yield Management is jointly organized by the Center 
 of Hospitality and Real Estate Research of The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong's School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Hotel Controllers 
 and Accountants Association of Hong Kong and SKAL International Hong 
 Kong and is co-sponsored by The Marco Polo Hongkong Hotel and Mandarin 
 Oriental Hong Kong.
The 
 workshop was conducted by Professor Sheryl E. Kimes, Professor 
 of Operations Management at Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration. 
 Dr. Kimes earned her doctorate in 1987 from the University of Texas 
 at Austin. She has published over 30 journal articles. She has also 
 been listed in Who's Who in America and has been named as the Cornell 
 University School of Hotel Administration Graduate Teacher of the Year 
 three times. Her research interests include revenue management and forecasting 
 in the hotel, restaurant and golf industries and she is currently at 
 work on numerous journal manuscripts in these areas. She has provided 
 consulting services and delivered seminars to a variety of companies 
 and organizations including the Hong Kong Hotels Association, Starwood 
 Asia-Pacific, the Singapore Hotel Association, McDonalds Corporation, 
 Walt Disney World Resorts and American Airlines.
Participants 
 learned frontier knowledge and skills to apply the strategic levers 
 of revenue management, inventory control and pricing of guest rooms, 
 meeting space, restaurants and spas etc. during the workshop. They were 
 also updated with the techniques and concepts for improving forecasting 
 for setting length of stay controls, of overbooking, of managing groups 
 and of managing prices through lectures, discussions and hands-on exercises.
Professor 
 Kam-hon Lee, Director of the CUHK School of Hotel and Tourism Management 
 said, "Being a leading educator in hotel and tourism in the region, 
 we always advance our research and theory and contribute ourselves to 
 the industry and the community. By organizing this kind of seminar and 
 workshop, we hope to constantly share our updated knowledge and research 
 findings to facilitate the industry with the necessary skills and techniques 
 to advance and meet the challenges ahead. We are glad that this workshop 
 has received overwhelming response and support from the participants, 
 who are all industry leaders at top management positions including General 
 Managers, Financial Controllers, Revenue Managers, Reservations Managers 
 and Directors of Sales and Marketing of hotels and other organizations 
 in the hospitality industries." 

 

 
