[title]3 world top universities tell how their education ideals bring out the best of young talents


 

 

 [/title]

[date]16 October 2006[/date]


 
Harvard Brown CUHK: Three world top universities
tell how their education ideals bring out the best of young talents 
 
 Globalization, information explosion, unequal wealth distribution all these issues pose challenges to undergraduate education in the 21st century. How world leading universities face these challenges, and even turn these into opportunities for both the institution and their students?
The Chinese University of Hong Kong presented jointly with Harvard and Brown Universities a talk on how leading universities nurture their students today. At the talk, Dr William Fitzsimmons, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Harvard College, Ms Sarah Clark Donahue, Director of Financial Aid, Harvard College, Mr James S Miller, Dean of Admissions, Brown University and Prof Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK, discussed what kind of freshmen are sought by leading universities, especially in terms of qualities besides outstanding academic qualifications. The talk received overwhelming response, and has attracted over 150 secondary school students and educators even from Shenzhen to attend.
CUHK enjoys links with Harvard and Brown
 S H Ho Foundation donates US$1 million to fund exchanges between Brown and CUHK
Harvard and Brown universities are some good examples of institutions that CUHK has links with. CUHK is the one and only university in Hong Kong to have been chosen as the approved year/semester study abroad programs for Harvard students. Courses such as Anthropology, Biology, Government and Public Administration, History and Business Administration in addition to Putonghua and Cantonese are selections recommended by Harvard College to its students. CUHK has received Harvard students regularly and a number of CUHK students have been awarded full scholarships for further studies and exchange at Harvard. CUHK has also received a number of exchange students from Brown University over the years. CUHK is delighted to learn that recently the S. H. Ho Foundation has made a generous pledge of US$1 million to be donated to Brown University, specifically to support exchanges with CUHK. The S. H. Ho Foundation has also donated a large sum to establish the S. H. Ho College at CUHK.
Hong Kong has the vision to become the education hub of the region. As a cosmopolitan city at the doorstep of Mainland China, Hong King enjoys a unique blend of Chinese and Western cultures, which is an attraction to students wishing to enrich their learning and cultural experiences. CUHK embraces enthusiastically diversity on campus, which allows the exchange of ideas among students and teachers from different nations and regions. The University firmly believes in education without borders and encourages both its students to reach out to the world and students from the world to experience Chinese culture at CUHK. For over 40 years since its inception, CUHK has established formal agreements with nearly 200 universities world-wide and enjoys close links with many leading institutions worldwide. 

Over 150 secondary school students and educators attended the talk. 
Professor Yau Shing Tung, Ms Sarah Clark Donahue, Dr William Fitzsimmons, Professor Jack Cheng and Mr James S Miller (from left to right) responsed to audience's enquiries.
 
 


Professor Kenneth Young presented souvenir to Dr William Fitzsimmons. 
Professor Kenneth Young presented souvenir to Ms Sarah Clark Donahue. 
Professor Kenneth Young presented souvenir to Mr James S Miller.


 
