[title]Current U.S. treatment guidelines for coronary heart patients need revision[/title]

[date]20 January 2005[/date]


 Current U.S. treatment guidelines for coronary heart patients need 
 revision 
 
Aspirin prevents clogging of blood vessels and reduces the risk 
 of heart attack and stroke. Currently, about half of the U.S. male 
 population above the age of 40 is taking aspirin. However, aspirin 
 doubles the risk of ulcer bleeding even at very low doses. Each year 
 about 1% of aspirin users develop ulcer bleeding worldwide. The bleeding 
 risk increases to more than 10% per year in patients with a history 
 of ulcer. Among high-risk patients, adding a potent acid suppressing 
 drug (proton-pump inhibitor) to aspirin effectively reduces the bleeding 
 risk.
Instead 
 of prescribing acid suppressing drugs to patients who cannot tolerate 
 aspirin, the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart 
 Association strongly recommend substitution of aspirin with another 
 drug called clopidogrel (Plavix). Plavix is an anti-platelet drug 
 that effectively prevents clogging of blood vessels. Unlike aspirin, 
 Plavix was thought to induce no harm to the stomach. According to 
 the Hospital Authority, the annual expenditure on Plavix is on a rising 
 trend and exceeded $16 million HKD last year. A local survey found 
 that about 30 - 50% of Plavix prescriptions are due to aspirin intolerance. 
 Despite the strong recommendations by U.S. authorities, it is unknown 
 whether Plavix is as good as the combination of aspirin plus an acid 
 suppressing drug (proton-pump inhibitor) in patients with a history 
 of ulcer.
The 
 GI Research team of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics at 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong led by Professor Francis Chan 
 Ka-leung performed the first double-blind randomized trial to compare 
 Plavix with the combination of aspirin and a proton-pump inhibitor 
 for patients who had previous ulcer bleeding. A total of 320 patients 
 who had coronary heart disease or stroke were randomly assigned to 
 receive Plavix or aspirin plus a proton-pump inhibitor for one year. 
 It was found that recurrent ulcer bleeding occurred in 9% (13 patients) 
 of the patients receiving Plavix and 0.7% (1 patient) of the patients 
 receiving aspirin plus a proton-pump inhibitor within one year. In 
 other words, the risk of recurrent ulcer bleeding was more than 10 
 times higher in the group receiving Plavix than the group receiving 
 aspirin plus a proton-pump inhibitor.
Professor 
 Chan concluded that contrary to the current U.S. guidelines, Plavix 
 is contraindicated in patients who cannot tolerate aspirin. These 
 high-risk patients should receive a combination of aspirin and a proton-pump 
 inhibitor. The result was published in today's issue of The 
 New England Journal of Medicine. 



 
