[title]CUHK Hosts The 10th Annual Scientific Symposium of the Hong Kong Cancer Institute held in conjunction with The 2nd Pan Pacific Lung Cancer Conference[/title]

[date]6 November 2004[/date]


 CUHK Hosts The 10th Annual Scientific Symposium of the Hong Kong 
 Cancer Institute
 held in conjunction with The 2nd Pan Pacific Lung Cancer Conference 
 
 
Lung cancer is a leading cause of death in Hong Kong. Through the 
 global effort involving government agencies, academia and industry, 
 substantial advances in the field of lung cancer have been achieved 
 over the past decade, ranging from diagnosis and treatment to translational 
 research and molecular targeted therapy.
Distinguished 
 medical experts and clinical researchers from Australia, Canada, China, 
 Japan, Europe, the United States and Hong Kong, will gather at The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) during 6-7 November to present 
 state-of-the-art diagnostic and multi-disciplinary management of this 
 devastating illness at the 10th Annual Scientific Symposium of the 
 Hong Kong Cancer Institute held in conjunction with the 2nd Pan Pacific 
 Lung Cancer Conference, co-hosted with the University of California, 
 San Francisco. The interaction will surely pave the way for future 
 collaboration against lung cancer.
Professor 
 the Honorable Arthur KC Li, GBS, JP, Secretary for Education and Manpower, 
 Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, congratulated 
 the Organizing Committee at the opening ceremony, "Hong Kong is truly 
 where East meets West in terms of biomedical research and education, 
 as exemplified by the presence of the renowned leading scientists 
 and clinicians from all over the world in this Symposium. We are proud 
 to emphasize the continued support for the cutting edge biomedical 
 research targeting areas of special needs such as cancer."
This 
 year's Lee Shiu Family Foundation Lecture by Professor Waun-ki Hong 
 will focus on lung cancer prevention with emphasis on genetics, risk 
 modeling and molecular targets. Professor Tai-fai Fok, Dean of the 
 Faculty of Medicine, CUHK, thanked the Foundation for their generous 
 support, "We have long been committed to a multi-disciplinary approach 
 to service, education as well as research. This is well illustrated 
 by the management of lung cancer." A pioneer in the area of chemoprevention 
 of cancers, Professor Hong is Head of the Division of Medicine at 
 the M.D. Anderson Cancer Centre and past President of the American 
 Association in Cancer Research.
"The 
 Hong Kong Cancer Institute was established in 1990 to promote and 
 coordinate clinical and translational research in CUHK. The Symposium 
 coincides with the 10th anniversary of the Sir YK Pao Centre for Cancer 
 and the Lady Pao Children's Cancer Centre which provide comprehensive 
 care to over 4,000 new cases of cancer each year," said Dr Man-hei 
 Shiu, Chairman of the Management Board of the Hong Kong Cancer Institute. 
 
"The 
 clinical services, together with three floors of dedicated laboratory 
 space and a Cancer Patient Resource Centre, provide the infrastructure 
 for clinical, translational and psycho-social research. With the generous 
 support of the Hong Kong Cancer Fund and the Hospital Authority, funding 
 has been made available to re-develop the first floor of the Cancer 
 Centre into a state-of-the-art Chemotherapy-Day-Hospital over the 
 next 18 months," said Professor Anthony T C Chan, Director of the 
 Hong Kong Cancer Institute and Chairman of the Department of Clinical 
 Oncology, CUHK.
Professor 
 Tony Mok, Co- Chairman of the Organizing and Scientific Committees of 
 the Symposium and Professor of the Department of Clinical Oncology, 
 Faculty of Medicine, CUHK, briefed the new development of lung cancer, 
 "It has been labeled as a fatal illness with short survival in the 
 past. But in this conference, we shall witness a major transition 
 in management of this fatal disease. Advances in knowledge of molecular 
 biology and development of new targeted therapy hold the promise to 
 a more durable tumor control with much less toxicity. I hope we can, 
 and we will, convert lung cancer into a chronic illness." Professor 
 Mok has recently established the first Lung Cancer Research Group 
 in the Asia-Pacific region with active members from Shanghai, Guangzhou, 
 Taipei, Seoul and Sydney. 



 
