[title]CUHK stages K. Wah Hotel and Tourism Forum[/title]

[date]25 July 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 stages K. Wah Hotel and Tourism Forum 
 
With the generous support of K. Wah Group, the School of Hotel 
 and Tourism Management at The Chinese University of Hong Kong organized 
 the K. Wah Hotel and Tourism Forum - Hotel Investment 2005 today 
 at the Conrad Hotel Hong Kong. 
The 
 Forum set its theme on Hotel Investment and some 300 professionals 
 and scholars gathered at the forum to exchange their expertise and 
 views. At the Keynote Panel entitled "Value Creation through Management, 
 Risk Sharing, and Securitization", three world-renowned panelists 
 delivered keynote speeches. They include Profesor Jan deRoos, HVS 
 International Professor of Finance and Real Estate, Cornell University, 
 Professor Timothy Riddiough, E. J. Plesko Chair, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
 and Professor Robert Edelstein, Real Estate Development Chair, University 
 of California-Berkeley. 
Professor 
 Jan deRoos discussed the trends in the control of hotel assets: 
 management contracts/contract terms, leases of hotels, and active 
 asset management of hotels. Professor Timothy Riddiough talked about 
 the principles of risk management as they apply to real estate and 
 hotel property. He addressed how hotels could manage their risks 
 by executive forward contracts on room rentals rather than renting 
 rooms through a daily spot market; he also mentioned hotels could 
 also enter into sharing relationships with neighboring hotels to 
 deal with overbooking. Professor Robert Edelstein analyzed the general 
 driving forces for securitization of real estate and the recent 
 merger and securitization trends in hotels that are international 
 and wide-spread. 
Apart 
 from the Keynote Panel, there were three Industry Panels on different 
 topics -- Management and Control of Assets, Risk Management and 
 Investment Performance, and Securitization. Panelists of these three 
 Industry Panels include prominent members at management level of 
 the hotel industry, they were: Mr Paul Foskey of Asia/Pacific Marriott 
 International, Mr Kevin Murphy of Langham Hotels International, 
 Ms Paddy W Y Lui of Stanford Hotels International, and Mr Peter 
 T K Yu of Miramar Hotel and Investment Co Ltd. The panels were joined 
 by Mr Ambrose W S Cheung of Philip K H Wong, Kennedy Y H Wong and 
 Co, and Mr Nigel A A Summers of Horwath Asia Pacific. 
K. 
 Wah Group is celebrating its 50th Anniversary this year and the 
 Forum is one of the many celebration activities of the Group. Earlier, 
 a book entitled "On the Move - Dr. Lui Che-woo's Insights into the 
 Irreplaceable Hotel and Tourism Industry" was launched to celebrate 
 the Group's Anniversary. Dr Lui shared his 30 years of experience 
 in the book and pointed the way to the advancement of tourism in 
 Hong Kong. 




 
