[title]CUHK Achieves New Surgical Management of Emphysema[/title]

[date]6 November 2003[/date]


 CUHK Achieves New Surgical Management of Emphysema 
 
Emphysema is a common debilitating condition among chronic smokers 
 and characterized by a constant sense of breathlessness, limiting their 
 physical activity. In Hong Kong, it is estimated to affect between 6 
 to 8% of the elderly population (defined over 65 years old). Together 
 with other chronic lower respiratory conditions, emphysema is the 5th 
 leading cause of death. 
Although 
 medical therapy like bronchodilators and steroids are useful, they are 
 often ineffective in relieving symptoms in the late phase of the disease. 
 Lung volume reduction surgery was advocated ten years ago as the treatment 
 for some of the patients with advanced emphysema who are already on 
 maximal medical therapy. The theory behind this operation is that by 
 removing the most emphysematous parts of the lungs, respiratory mechanics 
 would improve. Although this operation has been shown to be effective 
 in carefully selected patients, many have to be turned away because 
 patients who are very sick with the disease would not be able to tolerate 
 the surgery. 
The 
 Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Department of Surgery at The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong is among the first in the world (and 
 certainly first in Asia) to investigate a new device called the endobronchial 
 valve (EBV) that can be placed through a bronchoscope into the segmental 
 airway leading to the most emphysematous lung. The concept behind this 
 is that the EBV would allow secretions from the targeted lung segment 
 to escape, but air would not be able to get into the targeted lung. 
 The resultant collapse would be equivalent to lung volume reduction 
 surgery but without the trauma associated with surgery. 
We have 
 so far performed this procedure in 21 patients with no operative deaths. 
 The stay in hospital after treatment is 5 to 6 days, whilst that of 
 a surgery is 7 to 10 days. Full follow up data were available in 20 
 patients up to three months. We were able to demonstrate that in the 
 majority of patients after the procedure, they were able to walk further, 
 their lung functions significantly improve, and they overall feel much 
 better. A complete report of this study will soon be published in the 
 Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery. We will continue to 
 investigate who would benefit most from this device, but this approach 
 holds promise for the future treatment of a broader group of patients 
 suffering from severe end stage emphysema. 
endobronchial 
 valve device



 
