[title]CUHK Students Launch Healthcare Products[/title]

[date]10 March 2005[/date]


 Perceiving Huge Business Opportunity
 CUHK Students Launch Healthcare Products 
 
Hypertension is third leading cause of death worldwide, according 
 to the World Health Organization. Studies have shown that approximately 
 690 million people worldwide are suffering from hypertension. Among 
 them, 160 million are Chinese. Effective treatment of hypertension 
 is only possible with careful monitoring of blood pressure (BP). However, 
 traditional BP monitors whose inflatable and cuff-based devices that 
 do not continuously measure beat-to-beat BP are lagging far behind 
 customer needs.
A 
 group of graduate students at The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 including full time MBA students Carol Fan, Tony Liu and Arion Maniatis 
 and PhD candidate Yan Yongseng majoring in biomedical engineering, 
 perceives the huge consumer market in China where both hypertension 
 cases and health-consciousness are rapidly increasing.
Their 
 company, Golden Health, aims to manufacture and commercialize an innovative 
 and inexpensive blood pressure measuring device to increase people's 
 health awareness and improve their quality of life. The core technology 
 was developed by a research team at the CUHK's Joint Research Center 
 of Biomedical Engineering (JCBME) of the Department of Electronic 
 Engineering. Known as "QuickSense", the device continuously measures 
 blood pressure electronically without the need for bulky, inflated 
 cuffs. The traditional cuff-based BP meters provide only a snapshot 
 of the BP at a particular point in time, while this cuffless device 
 measures accurate BP reading for each beat so that a continuous stream 
 of BP and its variability can be obtained. Since there is no need 
 to squeeze the blood vessel using a cuff, the new device has smaller 
 dimensions and allows for minimal sensation.
Golden 
 Health will initially target China's rapidly growing cities such as 
 Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen and their targeted end customers 
 include hypertensive individuals, the elderly, chronic disease patients 
 and health conscious consumers.
The 
 start-up expenses of Golden Health will amount to US$65,000. The company 
 has been invited by the Center for Innovation and Technology at CUHK 
 to join their incubation programme with free office space for the 
 first year. The company will also apply for the incubation programme 
 in the Hong Kong Science and Technology Park as well as the Small 
 Entrepreneurship Research Assistance Programme, a matching fund load 
 programme under the Innovation and Technology Fund to stimulate small 
 companies to pursue research and development.
Golden 
 Health will represent CUHK at the Asia Moot Corp, a prestigious annual 
 competition in entrepreneurship among MBA students initiated by the 
 CUHK in 1998 and will be held in Thailand from March 15 to 17. The 
 team will compete with approximately 20 teams from top business schools 
 representing China, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Singapore, Philippines, 
 Taiwan and Thailand. Champion of the competition will compete with 
 30 other teams of leading business schools from around the globe at 
 the global Moot Corp Competition to be held at the McCombs School 
 of Business, University of Texas at Austin from May 4th to 7th, 2005.
Professor 
 Hugh Thomas, associate director of the Centre for Entrepreneurship 
 at CUHK and the advisor of the team said, "This is one of the CUHK's 
 initiatives to raise techno-entrepreneurship in Hong Kong by helping 
 students with new business ideas and ambitions to formulate their 
 business plans. More rewardingly, these students will earn a chance 
 to realize a dream career of setting up and running their own firm. 
 If these students do so, they will certainly benefit not just themselves 
 but the community as well." 
Golden Health Team:
 Yan Yongseng (front), Carol Fan (back row left), Arion 
 Maniatis (back row middle) and Tony Liu (back row right)
 



 
