[title]CUHK sets up The Croucher Laboratory for Human Genomics[/title]

[date]20 November 2004[/date]


 How much calcium do Chinese postmenopausal women need? 
 
Adequate calcium intake is necessary to maintain health. About 99% 
 of calcium is stored in skeleton and teeth, and body fluid and cell 
 also need stable calcium to maintain basic life activities. Our calcium 
 requirement is thus the minimum intake that produces no loss from 
 the body, or the minimum intake that is able to maintain our bone 
 mass. Postmenopausal women are a particularly vulnerable group because 
 of the quick bone loss during this period of life.
Evidences 
 on calcium requirement have so far mainly came from studies on Caucasian 
 populations. The Americans have recommended 1200mg/d as adequate intake. 
 As genetic factors, body build, and dietary habits are different between 
 the Chinese and Caucasians, their calcium requirement may differ. 
 Professor Suzanne C Ho and Dr. Chen Yuming from the School of Public 
 Health, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, have therefore conducted 
 a series of studies to investigate what is considered as adequate 
 intake in postmenopausal Chinese women aged between 48-64 years, and 
 within the first 12 years of menopause. These studies consisted of: 
 1) an isotope labeled calcium balance study, 2) a cross-sectional 
 study on habitual calcium intake and current bone mass, and 3) a 18 
 month longitudinal study on habitual calcium intake and rate of bone 
 loss.
The 
 first study was on a three-phase calcium balance study among twenty-one 
 women. We found that calcium absorption efficiency was about two folds 
 higher in Chinese than in Caucasian women. The calcium absorption 
 efficiency in Chinese on usual calcium diet (300-1000mg/d) is about 
 40%-60% as compared to 15%-40% reported for the Caucasian population. 
 However, Chinese women also lost more calcium in urine and feces than 
 Caucasians. Our findings suggest that Chinese postmenopausal women 
 require an average Ca intake of 740 mg per day to balance calcium 
 loss. Because individual requirements may vary, an intake of 900-1000mg 
 Ca/d is adequate for most postmenopausal women.
The 
 second study investigated the association between habitual dietary 
 calcium intake and bone mineral density among 685 population-based 
 postmenopausal Chinese women. Average usual calcium intakes in each 
 intake quartile were 280, 420, 580 and 880mg/d. We observed that women 
 of the higher calcium intake quartile had higher mean bone mass values. 
 Mean bone mineral density was 1.6% (arms), 3.4% (spine), and 4.4% 
 (hip) higher in subjects of the top quartile than those of the lowest 
 calcium intake quartile. This study showed that a mean intake of about 
 900mg/d or above was associated with significantly higher bone mass.
The 
 third study assessed the association of habitual dietary calcium intake 
 and bone loss in 454 early postmenopausal women over an 18-month follow 
 up period. The total loss rates of bone mineral density at the whole 
 body, lumber spine, femoral neck and total hip were 1.28%, 0.60%, 
 1.54% and 0.56% per year. We observed that higher habitual calcium 
 intake was associated with better bone mass and lower rate of bone 
 loss. The 18-month bone loss rate in the subjects of the top calcium 
 intake quartile decreased by 0.59% for the whole body and 0.15% for 
 the lumbar spine as compared with those of the lowest calcium intake 
 quartile. This longitudinal study also confirmed that an intake of 
 900mg Ca/d was helpful in the prevention of bone loss among postmenopausal 
 Chinese women.
In 
 conclusion, our calcium balance and bone mass studies consistently 
 suggest an intake of 900-1000mg daily would be adequate for postmenopausal 
 Chinese to prevent calcium loss and better bone health.
Although 
 the most definitive role for calcium in postmenopausal women is in 
 bone health, calcium has also been associated with beneficial effects 
 in several non-skeletal disorders, such as hypertension, colorectal 
 cancer, and obesity. Therefore adequate calcium intake has implications 
 that encompass a women's overall health. There should be a clear message 
 regarding the importance of adequate calcium intake in all women, 
 particularly in postmenopausal or perimenopausal women.
About 
 60% of the dietary Ca for our population is from plant source, (mainly 
 vegetables and soy products), as oppose to dairy sources in the western 
 populations. We should encourage the traditional ways to meet our 
 dietary requirement through maintenance of traditional diet, or intake 
 of some calcium fortified foods.
The 
 following daily intake may help to achieve about 900-1000mg dietary 
 calcium intake:1 medium bowl of tofu (295mg Ca), one plate (~300g) 
 of dark green leaf vegetables (150-208mg Ca), a large orange (60-80mg 
 Ca), a serving (100g) of fishes (preferably small fish with bone) 
 (50-200mg Ca), a teaspoon (20g) of sesame or sesame flour (100mg Ca), 
 1-2 glass of low fat milk (300-600mg Ca).
To 
 draw healthcare professionals' attention to the importance of adequate 
 calcium intake and issues in relation to Chinese herbal medicine and 
 women's health, the Centre of Research and Promotion of Women's Health, 
 and the Centre of Nutritional Studies of the School of Public Health, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong together with Hong Kong Epidemiological 
 Association organized the Symposium on Calcium, Chinese Herbal Medicine 
 and Women's Health on 20 November 2004. 



 
