[title]CUHK's Department of Marketing Releases Findings on "The Business Opportunity and Crisis of Individual Mainland Visitors"[/title]

[date]30 November 2004[/date]


 CUHK's Department of Marketing Releases Findings on 
 "The Business Opportunity and Crisis of Individual Mainland Visitors" 
 
 
A survey on the business opportunity and crisis of individual mainland 
 visitors in Hong Kong was conducted during the National Day Golden 
 Week from October 1st and October 10th by The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong' s Department of Marketing. Led by Professor Leo Sin, Director 
 of the MSc Programme in Marketing, the study aims to find out the 
 spending habits of the mainland travelers in Hong Kong; to examine 
 their familiar local brands; to investigate their comments on shopping, 
 service, environment and culture in Hong Kong and to compare findings 
 with a similar study conducted last year.
It 
 is discovered that there has been a continuous growth of mainland 
 tourist arrival with 2.36 million in 1997 surging to 8.46 million 
 in 2003. About 34 percent of the 310 respondents were from Guangzhou, 
 where the rest came from other places including Shenzhen, Fujian, 
 Shanghai, Beijing, Zhejiang, Guangxi and Wuhan. It is found that about 
 83 percent visited Hong Kong for sightseeing and shopping, followed 
 by 15 percent who visited their relatives. 36 percent visited Hong 
 Kong for the first time while about 26 percent said that they had 
 visited Hong Kong for more than five times. Most of them would stay 
 for two to three days.
The 
 proportion of big spenders obviously decreased from 18.7 percent from 
 35.9 percent last year who spent HK$10,000 or above, while 24 percent 
 of them spent HK$5,000 to HK$10,000. Their top five shopping goals 
 are, in order of priority, including clothing/shoes, gold and jewellery, 
 mobile phones, electrical appliances/sound equipments and cosmetics/perfumes. 
 They are familiar with gold jewellery and clothing local brands such 
 as Chow Sang Sang, Chow Tai Fook, Crocodile and Giordano. However, 
 about 44 percent said Hong Kong's merchandise lacked local flavours.
Overall 
 speaking, most mainland tourists found that Hong Kong people are friendly 
 and they were impressed by the convenient transportation and improved 
 hygienic environment. But they also complained of the high price in 
 the city.
Professor 
 Sin warned that Hong Kong needs to attract more tourists to shop in 
 view of the increasing number of tourists who has been spending less.
Professor 
 Sin also proposed that Hong Kong should have a clear direction for 
 the development of the tourism industry. We should have a unique and 
 distinctive market positioning for Hong Kong as a tourist destination, 
 to establish a strong strategic alliance with Macau and cities in 
 the Pearl River Delta region and to encourage everyone in Hong Kong 
 to participate and contribute to the growth and development of tourism 
 industry. 
Professor Leo Sin, Director of MSc Programme 
 in Marketing (right) 
 Dr. Stephen Ho, The Chartered Institute of Marketing (HK) (left) 
 
  
 


 
