[title]New Initiatives to Broaden Student Mix[/title]

[date]4 February 2005[/date]


 New Initiatives to Broaden Student Mix 
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong has embraced the ideal of a 
 broader student mix especially for its undergraduate programmes, to 
 enhance the quality of education as well as the career prospects of 
 its graduates. To admit more outstanding students from outside Hong 
 Kong and to increase two-way exchange, the University will carry out 
 the following plans:-
To promote student exchange 
 
 CUHK will increase student exchange with 180 partner universities 
 from 23 countries around the world. In 2005-06, incoming students 
 will amount to 20% (600) and outgoing students to 55% (1,600) of CUHK's 
 annual student intake, including short term to full year exchanges. 
 The overseas institutions that participate in such exchange programmes 
 include Harvard, Yale, Princeton, UC Berkeley, Caltech, London and 
 Waseda. 
The 
 first to take part in the National Colleges and Universities Enrollment 
 System
 
 Starting from the 2005-06 student intake, CUHK will take part in the 
 National Colleges and Universities Enrollment System, and thereby 
 can reach over 4 million candidates in 13 provinces and 4 cities on 
 the mainland. These candidates will be able to apply for admission 
 to CUHK, in the same manner as they apply for key universities on 
 the mainland. 
To 
 recruit undergraduate students from overseas countries 
 
 CUHK will actively recruit overseas students from Europe, the Americas 
 and Asia. For 2005-06, about 30 undergraduate students may be recruited 
 from overseas countries. This number will increase gradually in subsequent 
 years. The quality education offered by CUHK will be attractive to 
 many overseas students, especially those who are interested in the 
 Greater China region. 
 
 Non-local students enrolling for undergraduate studies at CUHK will 
 pay an annual tuition fee of HK$80,000. CUHK is grateful to sponsors 
 who have donated scholarships specifically for providing subsidy to 
 needy non-local students. The intake number for non-local students 
 will remain at 280 per year for the next few years. The intake number 
 for local students will not be reduced. CUHK will enhance its facilities 
 and services to support its initiatives to broaden the student mix. 
 



 
