[title]Antibiotic resistance in salmonellae: Do we have any choices?[/title]

[date]5 July 2005[/date]


Antibiotic 
 resistance in salmonellae: Do we have any choices? 
 
Salmonellae are Gram-negative bacteria, causing salmonellosis 
 that continues to be a major public health problem world-wide. They 
 are divided into two groups according to their pathogenecity: the 
 enteric fever group which causes enteric fever and consists of exclusively 
 human pathogens; and the gastroenteritic group which causes gastroenteritis 
 and are mainly found in animals. Enteric fever includes typhoid 
 and paratyphoid fever and is a type of septicaemic illness that 
 is severe and generalized, requires prompt antibiotic treatment 
 and can be fatal if untreated. It spreads from person to person 
 via the faecal-oral route. Gastroenteritis caused by salmonellae 
 is predominantly localised in the small intestine, resulting in 
 diarrhoea and vomiting. It only requires supportive treatment such 
 as fluid and electrolyte replacement. However, severe generalized, 
 invasive infection such as septicaemia or meningitis may occur and 
 such infection again requires prompt antibiotic treatment, or else 
 fatal consequences or serious sequelae may result. The infection 
 is acquired by consumption of contaminated food. Salmonellae are 
 the most common cause of food-borne pathogens in Hong Kong especially 
 in infants, constituting close to 60% of the bacterial pathogens 
 isolated from more than 3,000 patients with bacterial diarrhoea 
 in the Prince of Wales Hospital from 1994 to 2001 and in the New 
 Territories East Cluster hospitals from 2002 to 2003. 
Invasive 
 salmonella infections (salmonellosis) have been successfully treated 
 by chloramphenicol or cotrimoxazole until strains that became resistant 
 to these antibiotics emerged in the 1970s. Fluoroquinolones are 
 a group of antibiotics that has a wide anti-bacterial spectrum and 
 has replaced the older antibiotics as the drugs of choice for treatment 
 of enteric fever and salmonellosis. Unfortunately, fluoroquinolone-resistant 
 strains rapidly developed in many parts of the world. In Hong Kong, 
 all salmonellae had remained susceptible to the fluoroquinolones, 
 however, they have become less so as the concentration required 
 to inhibit them increased gradually over the years (from 1993 to 
 1998). The Department of Microbiology of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong isolated the first fluoroquinolone-resistant salmonella 
 strains in 1998. These resistant and "less susceptible" bacteria, 
 constituting up to 10%, have had a significant effect on clinical 
 practice since the infections caused are difficult to treat. We 
 therefore embarked on a series of studies to investigate the mechanisms 
 of fluoroquinolone-resistance in salmonellae. 
Our 
 studies have shown that salmonellae are resistant to fluoroquinolones 
 due to presence of mutations in their genes. The more resistant 
 a strain is to a fluoroquinolone, the more mutations it has. Thus, 
 even if a strain appears to be susceptible, it has got a mutation 
 and the use of a fluoroquinolone to treat the infection caused will 
 result in treatment failure. These "falsely susceptible" strains 
 are difficult to detect routinely unless special methods that are 
 more tedious and expensive are used. These results have been published 
 in an international journal, Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy. 
 
Thus, 
 the impact of fluoroquinolone-resistance in salmonellae is significant 
 both clinically and economically. Besides having to use more sophisticated 
 methods to detect these strains, the infections cannot be treated 
 by fluoroquinolones, thus other more expensive and probably less 
 effective antibiotics have to be used. 
Our 
 findings underscore the need to prevent and control the spread of 
 antibiotic resistance. Strategies include rapid detection of resistant 
 organisms so as to prevent cross infection as soon as possible, 
 avoidance of inappropriate use or overuse of antibiotics in man 
 and animals to reduce chances of mutation development in bacteria, 
 and patient compliance in antibiotic treatment. 
Professor 
 Julia Mei Lun LING, Associate Professor, Department of Microbiology, 
 CUHK
 


 
