[title]CUHK Professor of Statistics Chan Ngai-hang Named Fellow of the American Statistical Association[/title]

[date]1 September 2006[/date]


 CUHK Professor of Statistics Chan Ngai-hang Named Fellow of the American Statistical Association
 Professor Chan Ngai-hang, professor of statistics and chairman of the Department of Statistics at The Chinese University of Hong Kong, was named Fellow of the American Statistical Association for his contributions to statistical research, education, and application. Professor Chan is the only local academic to receive the honour this year. He is also one of two recipients from the Asia-Pacific; the other recipient comes from Japan.
The American Statistical Association was founded in 1893 to promote the application of statistical science and contribute to human welfare. To date, the association has 18,000 members all over the world. The designation of Fellow is a superlative honour in the Association and signifies an individual¡¦s outstanding service to and leadership in the field of statistical science. Each year, the Committee of Fellows can elect only one-third of one percent of the total membership. This year, only 60 members of the Association were awarded the Fellows honour. 
Professor Chan Ngai-hang joined the American Statistical Association in 1987. The Association lauded Professor Chan for his ¡¥path-breaking research on unstable time series and time series applications to economics, finance, and oceanography; for leadership in statistical education programs in computational finance; and for editorial service to the profession.¡¦ Professor Chan has also made contributions to the field of risk management. 
Professor Chan is an alumnus of The Chinese University. He obtained his B.Sc. from CUHK 1981 and his Ph.D. from the University of Maryland, College Park, in 1985. From 1985 He taught at Indiana University from 1985 to 1990 and joined Carnegie Mellon University since 1990. Professor Chan also spent two years at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology during 1993 to 1995. He joined CUHK as Professor of Statistics in 2000. Professor Chan is a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and an elected member of the International Statistical Institute.

Professor Chan Ngai-hang
  


 
