[title]NIH and CUHK Biochemistry Department jointly offer doctoral training Program in USA[/title]

[date]7 February 2003[/date]


NIH and CUHK Biochemistry Department jointly offer doctoral training 
 Program in USA 
 
The Department of Biochemistry of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 (CUHK) and The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
 (NICHD) of The National Institutes of Health (NIH), USA, jointly offer 
 a Graduate Partnership Program (GPP) leading to a PhD degree to be awarded 
 by CUHK in Hong Kong. Students enrolled in GPP will spend roughly one 
 year at CUHK to do course work and three years at NICHD to conduct research. 
 Students enrolled in the Program will receive a living allowance from 
 NICHD during their stay in the United States.
NIH is the world's premier 
 biomedical research organization. Thousands of first-rate scientists 
 at the NIH conduct research in basic and clinical biomedical sciences 
 in more than 23 NIH Institutes and Centers (e.g. NICHD and National 
 Cancer Institute). These investigators including many Nobel laureates 
 work in unparalleled research facilities on cutting edge projects. At 
 the moment, over 200 graduate students from universities such as the 
 Karolinska Institute of Sweden, John Hopkins University and Oxford University 
 are now working in NIH laboratories. In Asia, CUHK is NIH's first partner 
 to provide such training to our graduate students.
Since its inception in 
 1971, the Department of Biochemistry of CUHK has striven for excellence 
 in teaching and research. In the past 32 years, the Biochemistry Department 
 trained more than 300 MPhil and PhD graduates. In the year 2001, our 
 research on 'Traditional Chinese Medicine' was selected by the University 
 Grants Committee as an 'Area of Excellence' in research. In addition, 
 'Genomics and Bioinformatics' and 'Fish Molecular Biology' are also 
 recognized by CUHK as strategic research areas in the Department.
Professor Walter Ho, the 
 Chairman of Biochemistry, said the selection of candidates to join the 
 GPP is very strict and a number of criteria need to be satisfied. For 
 example, candidates should have a solid background on the knowledge 
 and experimental skills of their research projects, good academic achievements 
 and recommendations, and outstanding performance during the selection 
 interview. This year, four candidates will be sent to NICHD. Other than 
 providing better training for our students, the Department stands to 
 gain in this Programme by having a closer relationship with one of the 
 world's most prestigious biomedical research establishment.
Candidate Ms. Jenny Cheung 
 welcomed this opportunity to work at NIH. She hopes to share her experience 
 with the department three years after the training.
For further information, 
 please contact Ms. Celia Poon, Department of Biochemistry, CUHK at Tel: 
 2609-6793. 

 
