[title]The Chinese University Kicks Off Environmental Protection Week[/title]

[date]28 February 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University Kicks Off Environmental Protection Week
 In order to enhance the environmental awareness of staff and students, The Chinese University of Hong Kong organized the Environmental Protection Week under the theme Think Globally, Act Locally, Respond Individually.
Dr. Sarah Liao, Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University officiated at the opening ceremony of the Environmental Protection Week today. Said Professor Lau, Environmental conservation is not only the task for the government. As members of the global village, Hong Kong corporations and individual citizens share the same responsibility. Therefore, the Chinese University has established committees and offices to formulate environment policies and conserve the campus environment. We also offer various related programmes and general education courses to promote environmental education.
At the ceremony, Dr. Sarah Liao and Professor Lawrence Lau presented an appointment certificate to energy conservation coordinators from different departments of the University. These energy conservation coordinators are responsible for promoting energy saving knowledge to colleagues and students, and helping to raise energy efficiency in the campus.
Staff and students can participate in various educational activities during the Environmental Protection Week. They include energy wise workshop, exhibition, visit of the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department, a flea market selling environmental-friendly and second-hand products.
The Chinese University is on the forefront to support sustained development. Numerous environmental protection measures have been carried out in the campus, such as:
 -- Recycle waste paper, metal, toner cartridges, plastic bags, rechargeable batteries, old clothes, and books. In 2004-05 alone, 325 tonnne of waste paper was collected.
 -- Suggest all departments to set air-conditioner temperature at 25.5¢XC during summer.
 -- Utilize renewable energy
 Example 1: Install evacuated tube solar collectors on the rooftop of gymnasia, using solar energy to heat up water in student shower rooms. The evacuated tubes act like a vacuum flask to minimize heat loss, while the materials inside the pipes facilitate heat collection and transfer. In sunny days, hot water up to 90¢XC can be provided.
 Example 2: Install hydraulic ram pump to utilize potential energy of streams running through the campus. This pollution-free system delivers stream water to storage tanks for irrigation and toilet flushing.
Evacuated tube solar collectors
 Hydraulic ram pump 


 
 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 
 
Dr. Sarah Liao, Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works 
 
 Professor Lam Kin Che, Chairman, University Steering Committee on Environment, CUHK 
 
 Professor Lawrence Lau presented a souvenir to Dr. Sarah Liao. This environmental friendly vase has a photocatalytic coating. Under sunlight, it can kill bacteria and remove dirt on the vase surface. This technology is developed by CUHK's environmental science laboratory. 
 Dr. Sarah Liao, Professor Lawrence Lau and Professor Lam Kin Che presented appointment certificate to energy conservation coordinators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
