[title]Leading University Heads Gather to Explore Universities in the 21st Century[/title]

[date]29 March 2004[/date]


 Leading University Heads Gather to Explore Universities in the 21st 
 Century 
 
The University Presidents' Global Forum 2004 - "Universities in 
 the 21st Century" takes place on 29-30 March 2004. As a major highlight 
 of the 40th Anniversary Celebrations of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong, the Forum promotes international cooperation among leading universities 
 as more than 40 heads of prestigious institutions of higher learning 
 gather to discuss strategies for higher education development in the 
 21st century.
University 
 heads exchange views on such topics as, "How Will New Developments in 
 IT Impact Research and Teaching in the 21st Century"; "Lessons from 
 Technology Transfer: Experience of Research Universities"; "Global Competition 
 versus International Cooperation: Effects on the Research University"; 
 "Improvement of Research University - Where and How?"; "Is there a Role 
 for Teaching Ethics and Values in Research Universities?"; "How Should 
 the Liberal Arts Interact with Professional Schools in the Research 
 University: New 21st Century Paradigms?" and "Future of Tertiary Education". 
 
Professor 
 Sir James A Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economics 1996 and Distinguished 
 Professor-at-Large of The Chinese University of Hong Kong delivered 
 a special lecture titled "Incentives and the Universities: The Impact 
 of Performance Measurement" on 29 March 2004.
The 
 Opening Ceremony of the Forum took place on 29 March. Dr Alice Lam, 
 Chairman of the University Grants Committee of the Hong Kong Special 
 Administrative Region, Dr Edgar W K Cheng, Chairman of the Council, 
 CUHK and Professor Ambrose Y C King, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK officiated 
 at the Opening Ceremony.
During 
 the Forum, CUHK signed a Memorandum of Understanding to foster exchanges 
 and collaboration with the University of Glasgow, UK. Collaboration 
 with the University of Waterloo, Canada was also expanded to cover the 
 Faculty of Engineering.
In 1999, 
 47 heads of prestigious universities took part in The Vice-Chancellors 
 and Presidents Forum on "Global Tertiary Education Development" 
 hosted by the Association of University Presidents of China and organized 
 by The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The Forum looked into the development 
 of higher education in globalization. This year, with support from the 
 University Grants Committee, the Croucher Foundation and the K C Wong 
 Education Foundation, The Chinese University of Hong Kong organizes 
 The University Presidents' Global Forum 2004 to further enhance international 
 cooperation among top universities worldwide.
CUHK 
 has since its establishment been zealous in integrating an international 
 dimension into its teaching programmes and research activities. It has, 
 over the years, striven to establish and maintain relationships with 
 a large number of institutions the world over, including universities, 
 research institutes, and centres of excellence. Long-term academic collaboration 
 agreements with universities such as Yale, Columbia, and Johns Hopkins 
 have been set up. It has developed academic links and research collaboration 
 with educational and research institutions on the mainland and in Taiwan. 
 Both the scope and the mode of exchange activities have expanded considerably 
 over the years. Many joint research units have been set up and many 
 joint programmes have been organized.
The 
 Chinese University recruits its faculty from different parts of the 
 world. One third of the University's teaching staff are recruited from 
 outside Hong Kong. It has also benefited from the support of various 
 foundations for staff development and exchange programmes with an international 
 dimension. These include the Yale-China Association, the Harvard-Yenching 
 Institute, and the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia. 
 The hosting of international conferences and scholarly visits contributes 
 to the exchange of knowledge and the advancement of learning at a global 
 level. Academic links are forged with centres of excellence worldwide, 
 resulting in many staff exchanges and multi-lateral collaborations in 
 research, which are conducive to the cross-fertilization of ideas, the 
 enrichment of education, and benchmarking to the highest international 
 level.
Attachments:
 1. List of Participating Institutions
 2. Photos of the Forum 
Presidents 
 of Leading Universities Worldwide Gathered at the University Presidents' 
 Global Forum 2004.
Dr Alice 
 Lam, Chairman of the University Grants Committee (centre), Dr 
 Edgar Cheng, Chairman of the Council of CUHK (right), and Professor 
 Ambrose King, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (left) officiated at the 
 Opening Ceremony. 
 

 
