[title]Advice from the Champion: Entrepreneurship is About Playing to Win[/title]

[date]1 August 2003[/date]


Advice from the Champion:
 Entrepreneurship is About Playing to Win 
 
Paul Kan, Chairman and Executive Director of Champion Technology Holdings 
 Limited, believes that once you go down the entrepreneur path, there 
 is no turning back. He is also convinced that entrepreneurship is one 
 of the best ways to create jobs in Hong Kong.
It was Gordon Baty's "Entrepreneurship: 
 Playing to Win" that inspired him to start his own business. He was 
 introduced to this book while attending The Chinese University's MBA 
 Programme. It proved to be a turning point in his life.
Even so, it took him seven 
 years to turn his dream into reality. At the beginning, he hesitated, 
 and for a good reason. It was hard to quit his $million job at Cable 
 and Wireless and venture into unknown territories. His wife had strong 
 reservations, and even Wong Tai Sin advised him to stay put.
A few years later, however, 
 he decided to take the plunge. No more consultations with friends, professionals 
 or Wong Tai Sin this time around, because he had sufficient confidence 
 in himself.
Thus Champion Technology 
 Holdings Limited was born.
Leadership, in Paul's 
 definition, means innovativeness and commitment. A true leader should 
 not be afraid to make commitment. His personal success formula is 4P-3M-2L-1K, 
 which, incidentally, also incorporates his initials (Paul ML Kan):
 4P: Perspective, purpose, 
 proactivity and persistence
 3M: Money, media and motivation
 2L: Love and loyalty
 1K: Knowledge
He cautions all entrepreneur-hopefuls 
 to bear in mind that all worthy things in life are riddled with difficulties. 
 Careful planning is crucial. His own approach is to be aggressive in 
 marketing but conservative in financial matters, and exercise tight 
 control over operating costs. He would therefore provide for operating 
 costs for five years instead of 2.5 years as recommended by some consultants.
Why?
Because there are always 
 a lot of imponderables, whether it's the buyer, the employee or force 
 majeure factors and, of course, external crises such as the stock market 
 crash (1987), the Tiananmen Square incident (1989), the Middle East 
 crisis (1990), the Asian financial crisis (1997)¡K the list goes on.
It is therefore advisable 
 to plan your business the way you play chess - think at least a few 
 steps ahead. And do not give up too easily. Very often the benefit is 
 not immediately visible.
Mr. Kan shared these insights 
 with a group of EMBA and MBA students and alumni at the CUHK EMBA "Talking 
 to CEOs" programme held on June 2, 2003. This show was co-hosted by 
 the EMBA Programme and RTHK, and supported by Cable TV.
In his view, SARS could 
 well be a blessing in disguise for Hong Kong. The low opportunity cost 
 at present is most conducive for starting a business. A banking professional 
 specializing in IT with ten years' experience, for example, can rent 
 a small office, or part of an office, and set up a company to help other 
 companies promote services and products through IT.
He thinks the SAR Government 
 should provide more help to budding entrepreneurs. One option is to 
 relax the regulations to allow commercial offices in domestic premises.
He summarizes the competitive 
 edge offered by Singapore, China and Hong Kong as follows:
 - Singapore: tax free, very aggressive and flexible
 - China: while it varies from province to province, Shanghai for example 
 is very progressive and getting to be like Singapore
 - Hong Kong: has advantage in terms of geographical location, language, 
 rule of law
"But Government is not 
 doing enough," he said. "Most other countries have a "catalyst" to facilitate 
 investment, an agency -- like Singapore's Economic Development Board 
 -- that will bend over backwards to accommodate investors, but not in 
 Hong Kong."
He attributes his personal 
 success to being in the right place at the right time. China was opening 
 up at the time, and opportunities abound, but most people were afraid 
 to enter this market. He had the conviction, and the determination, 
 and had identified a niche market for wireless software products.
As for discovering and 
 retaining talents, instead of running after proven gems, Mr. Kan prefers 
 to "treasure hunt: -- look for stones in the rough which he can shape 
 and polish. It is less expensive and he will get more fun and satisfaction 
 out of the process. "There are lots of talents around you," he emphasized.
He urges his audience 
 to take a positive view of everything and let their heart be the guide. 
 It is important to work from the premises of social contribution.
Mr. Kan is a shining example 
 of a high achiever with not only exceptional talent, but also a social 
 conscience. His CV spans five pages and includes a list of awards received 
 in Hong Kong, France and Japan for his accomplishments. He also has 
 an impressive record of diversified public professional, business and 
 community services in Hong Kong and China. He has confessed that his 
 biggest personal expense item is donation to charities.
The EMBA "Talking to CEOs" 
 programme featuring Mr. Paul Kan was publicly broadcast on June 15, 
 2003 at RTHK Radio 1 and simultaneously posted on the RTHK website (http://www.rthk.org.hk). 
 It was also aired by Cable TV News Channel One on Monday, June 23, 2003. 
 Information and photos of previous shows can be viewed at http://ihome.cuhk.edu.hk/~b845744/. 
 

 
