[title]SHKP Mental Health Alliance presents an informative and educational website on mental health


 

 

 [/title]

[date]13 November 2006[/date]


SHKP Mental Health Alliance presents an informative and 
 educational website on mental health
 (www.shkpmha.cuhk.edu.hk) 
 
 An informative and educational website on mental health is launched in November by the SHKP Mental Health Alliance, a major mental health initiative established at The Chinese University of Hong Kong through the donation of Sun Hung Kai Properties.
Information on the website provides a handy resource to those who want to know more about mental health and mental problems, and those who care about the well-being of themselves and the people around them. Details of the past and upcoming activities organized by the Alliance are available on the website. These activities include public talks, exhibitions, workshops for the general public as well as for frontline mental health professionals. 
According to Prof. Fanny Cheung, Director of the Alliance, and Chairperson of the Department of Psychology, CUHK, Ready access to information and services empowers individuals and families to build up their own mental health, and to address challenges when confronting mental health problems. The website provides this initial link 
Mental health information on the website includes the on-line version of the Alliance¡¦s bi-monthly magazine on mental health Sundae Mood. The second issue of this free magazine will soon be launched in this month. The public will also be able to download a series of pamphlets and booklets, including positive psychology, stress management methods and family mental health etc. In addition, the website provides hyperlinks to organizations providing mental health services in Hong Kong, in addition to the clinical and group intervention services provided by the Alliance.
Upcoming events organized by the Alliance include professional workshops and a public talk on couple therapy in November and December by the renowned scholar Professor Kim Halford of Griffith University, and a series of public talks on the topics of 7-Well Stress Management and on Family Mental Health. A large-scale exhibition on Family Mental Health to promote individual and family mental health will be held in Olympican City Phase II on January 28, 2007. For more details of the activities, please go to the website: www.shkpmha.cuhk.edu.hk.
The SHKP Mental Health Alliance is funded by Sun Hung Kai Properties and formulated by an expert team at The Chinese University of Hong Kong to promote better mental health in Hong Kong, raise public awareness and understanding of mental health problems, reduce stigma and discrimination, encourage early intervention, and facilitate effective treatment through evidence-based practice. 

 
