[title]CUHK Establishes LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre[/title]

[date]26 March 2004[/date]


 CUHK Establishes LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre and 
 Provides South East Asia's First Genetic Screening Service for Eye 
 Diseases 
 
Genetic eye diseases that could lead to vision loss are estimated 
 to affect about 5% of the world population. Some genetic eye diseases 
 such as primary open-angle glaucoma are treatable if diagnosed early. 
 Early detection of retinoblastoma can even be life-saving. Genetic screening 
 is helpful to family planning and pre-natal diagnosis in cases of retinoblastoma. 
 Research on genetic eye diseases helps to understand how a disease develops 
 and is inherited, as well as to develop genetic markers that aid to 
 diagnose a disease sometimes even before symptoms appear.
"Nowadays 
 biotechnology plays an important role in medical research and clinical 
 practice. Recent advances in biotechnology and molecular genetics have 
 led to new understanding of causes of genetic eye diseases," said Professor 
 Chi-pui Pang, Professor of Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Deputy Director 
 of LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre, "we started our molecular 
 genetics laboratory in the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences 
 in 1998, and are ready to move on to establish an eye genetics research 
 centre to provide service for genetic screening for eye diseases at 
 molecular level, the first of its kind in South East Asia, and to further 
 on our advanced research."
The 
 Department has established the differential patterns of mutations causative 
 of eye diseases in Chinese in more than 10 candidate genes. It has gained 
 international recognition through output from its research work, having 
 contributed 42 publications on genetic eye diseases in international 
 journals and presented 105 papers in international conferences.
For 
 clinical genetic screening service, a number of genetic markers based 
 on disease causing mutations using blood samples have been established. 
 These markers have been validated for their usefulness in patients both 
 before and after the onset of the diseases. These include the MYOC 
 gene for primary open-angle glaucoma, a major form of glaucoma and the 
 most important cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Retinitis 
 pigmentosa has a known genetic predisposition and the RHO gene 
 is one of the causative genes. The yields (positive results) of these 
 genetic screening using blood samples are governed by the frequency 
 of respective patients carrying these gene defects. It is about 3% in 
 primary open-angle glaucoma and retinitis pigmentosa patients respectively. 
 The yields are similar in Chinese and Western populations. For retinoblastoma, 
 the commonest eye cancer that afflicts young children, the yield of 
 the RB1 gene test is about 45%. A yield of about 90% is attained 
 by mtDNA testing for Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, the 
 RS1 gene for X-linked retinoschisis, and the VMD2 gene 
 for Best vitelliform macular dystrophy.
Dr. 
 Dorothy Shu-ping Fan, Associate Professor of the Department of Ophthalmology 
 and Visual Sciences of CUHK, and Director of Genetic Counseling of LIM 
 Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre, remarked, "Retinoblastoma can 
 cause not only bilateral blindness but also death if not treated early 
 enough. For patients with positive family history, there is a 50% chance 
 of their siblings and offsprings to be suffering from retinoblastoma. 
 Pre-natal genetic screening for fetus will help assess the risk. If 
 the result is positive, the involved family may have to consider therapeutic 
 abortion." 
Table 
 1: Genetic Screening for Eye Diseases available at the LIM Por-yen Eye 
 Genetics Research Center 
Genetic 
 Eye Disease
Estimated 
 prevalence of the disease in 
 Hong Kong
Genetic 
 marker 
Yield 
 (%) for individuals with the disease
Primary 
 open-angle glaucoma
1:100
MYOC
3%
Retinitis 
 pigmentosa 
1:4,000
RHO
3%
Retinoblastoma 
 
1:15,000 
 
 (live births)
RB1
85%
Leber's 
 hereditary optic neuropathy
&lt;1:200,000
MtDNA
90%
X-linked 
 retinoschisis 
&lt;1:200,000
RS1
90%
Best 
 disease
&lt;1:200,000
VMD2
90%

"Through 
 genetic screening, we can identify individuals at high risk of developing 
 a particular disease such as primary open-angle glaucoma. By providing 
 regular check-up for these high risk individuals, we will be able to 
 detect and treat the disease at an early stage, which implies a better 
 long-term outcome," said Professor Dennis Shun-chiu Lam, Chairman of 
 the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences of CUHK and Director 
 of LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre. "Primary open-angle glaucoma 
 is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in Hong Kong and the 
 rest of world. Patients usually come late because there are no significant 
 symptoms until in the late stage. The damage done to the optic nerve 
 is irreversible. Through genetic screening, we can make much earlier 
 diagnosis in some cases and the chance of preserving eye sight is therefore 
 much better."
A Cheque 
 Presentation Ceremony and Naming Ceremony of the LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics 
 Research Centre took place today. Mr. Lim Por-yen presented the donation 
 to CUHK in person. Dr. Edgar W.K. Cheng, Chairman of the Council, and 
 Professor Ambrose Y.C. King, Vice-Chancellor of TCUHK also officiated 
 at the Ceremony. CUHK is most grateful to Mr. Lim Por-yen for his generous 
 donation. His support will help the University to go further in terms 
 of research as well as providing special service such as genetic eye 
 screening for those in need.
The 
 LIM Por-yen Eye Genetics Research Centre will offer molecular genetic 
 screening service for genetic eye diseases as listed in Table 1 from 
 1 April 2004. Patients interested in finding out whether the genetic 
 screening service is helpful to them or not are most welcome to call 
 our telephone hotlines 2762 3168 or 2762 3181 during office hour on 
 26-29 March 2004. 
 
 

 
