[title]HKU and CUHK to Announce Honorary Appointments[/title]

[date]6 May 2003[/date]


HKU and CUHK to Announce Honorary Appointments
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong and the University of Hong Kong 
 today jointly announce honorary appointments in medicine, in further 
 enhancing collaboration between the two universities in research related 
 to the understanding and treatment of SARS.
The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong is pleased to announce the appointment of Professor YUEN 
 Kwok-yung of the Department of Microbiology of the University of Hong 
 Kong as Honorary Professor in the Faculty of Medicine.
The University of Hong 
 Kong is pleased to announce the appointment of Professor Joseph SUNG 
 Jao Yiu of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong as Honorary Professor in the Faculty of Medicine.
Both Professor Yuen and 
 Professor Sung are distinguished medical scientists and educators, and 
 have made signal contributions over the last few months in the fight 
 against SARS, in virology and in clinical treatment.
Professor Lap-Chee TSUI, 
 Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong, said, "I welcome the 
 honorary appointments. The honours surely extend beyond the individuals 
 and the institutions. These appointments recognize and provide greater 
 opportunities for both universities to work together, not only to fight 
 SARS, but also for the long-term benefit of the community. I have every 
 confidence that the two universities can rise to the challenge."
Professor Ambrose KING, 
 Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, also welcomed 
 the honorary appointments, and said that the two universities stand 
 together in using their expertise to deal with this unprecedented problem 
 for the community. He added that some of the most important advances 
 in the treatment and understanding of the disease and the viruses have 
 come from the two medical schools, assets that the community should 
 be proud of.

 
