[title]Six Distinguished Persons Honored by CUHK


 

 

 [/title]

[date]24 November 2006[/date]


 Six Distinguished Persons Honoured by CUHK 
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong will confer honorary doctorates on six distinguished persons at its Sixty-third Congregation for the Conferment of Degrees to be held on Thursday, 7 December 2006, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to academic and cultural advancement, socio-economic progress, the promotion of the well-being of the people, peaceful and steady development of the community, and the development of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
The six honorary graduands and the degrees to be conferred are:
Professor Chen Shupeng, 
an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, is an outstanding geographer, and a pioneer in remote sensing and geoinformation science research in China. The University will confer upon Professor Chen the degree of Doctor of Science,
honoris causa, in recognition of his excellent contributions to the advancement of science and higher education and his generous advice given to the Chinese University in its geoinformation science research.
 
 
The late Dr. the Honourable Fok Ying-tung, Henry, was Vice-Chairman of the Political Consultative Committee of the People¡¦s Republic of China, a distinguished entrepreneur and philanthropist. He had made significant contributions towards the development of Hong Kong and rendered staunch support to the Chinese University. Dr Fok had expressed his willingness to accept an honorary degree from the University, therefore the University will confer upon Dr. Fok posthumously the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa.
 
 
Dr. Ho Tzu-cho, David is the Chairman of The S.H. Ho Foundation, a distinguished banker and philanthropist. The University will confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Social Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his impressive contributions towards the development of education and medical services in Hong Kong as well as his generous support rendered to the academic and research development of the Chinese University.
 
 
The Honourable Chief Justice Li Kwok-nang, Andrew of the Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, by the University in recognition of his remarkable accomplishments in ensuring an independent and effective judicial system in Hong Kong, his excellent contribution to the development of higher education in Hong Kong and for his generous support and advice given to the Chinese University over a very long period of time.
 
 
Courtesy of sh.xinhuanet.com 
Professor Wu Guanzhong, a great master of Chinese painting, is one of the few Chinese artists who has established a reputation both in China and the West. In recognition of his remarkable achievements in art, and his generous contributions of his expertise towards the development of the Department of Fine Arts and the Art Museum of the Chinese University, the University will confer upon Professor Wu the degree of Doctor of Literature, honoris causa.
 
 
Professor Yao Chi-chih, Andrew, Turing Award winner in 2000, is an eminent scholar in computer science. He has been a Distinguished Professor-at-Large of the Chinese University since 2005. The University will confer upon Professor Yao the degree of Doctor of Science, honoris causa, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the advancement of information technology and his advice rendered to the computer science and mathematics research of the Chinese University.
   

 
