[title]CUHK Leads Largest NIH-Funded Research on Osteoporosis In Asia[/title]

[date]18 September 2003[/date]


 CUHK Leads Largest NIH-Funded Research on Osteoporosis In Asia
 Mr Os Hong Kong: The First Osteoporosis Study in Asian Men 
 
Researchers from The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) were awarded 
 a US National Institute of Health (NIH) grant of over US$ 2 million 
 (equivalent to HK$16 million), the largest grant ever awarded to a research 
 project located in Asia, to study osteoporosis in Asian men.
 
In the past, osteoporosis 
 in men was most common in Northern Europe, intermediate in the US and 
 low in Asia. However, research done by CUHK revealed that osteoporosis 
 in men increased by two folds in the last 10 years, prompting a rapid 
 reversal of the international trend. This finding has alerted international 
 researchers to focus on osteoporosis in men and NIH targeted the problem 
 as one of the priority areas.
The CUHK research team, 
 led by Professor Edith Lau Ming-chu, Director of Jockey Club Center 
 for Osteoporosis Care and Control and Professor of the Department of 
 Community and Family Medicine, is part of the first tripartite international 
 study on osteoporosis in men. International collaborators are University 
 of California, San Francisco, and Oregon Health and Science University 
 from the USA and Department of Orthopaedics, University of Malmo of 
 Sweden. Co-Investigators from Hong Kong are Professor Leung Ping-chung, 
 Professor of Orthopaedcis and Traumatology, Professor Jean Woo, Professor 
 of Medicine and Therapeutics, and Professor Samuel Wong, Assistant Professor, 
 Department of Community and Family Medicine, CUHK.
"CUHK was selected as 
 a study site among many Asian competitors, due to its very strong track 
 record of research in osteoporosis, excellent research infrastructure, 
 and close links with the two leading groups in osteoporosis research 
 in the US. This landmark international study, with a strong Asian focus, 
 will bring major breakthroughs to the field of osteoporosis research 
 in men, on a global basis," commented Professor Jack Cheng Chun-yiu, 
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK.
In the Mr Os Hong Kong 
 study, two thousand men aged 65 years and older will be followed up 
 for 5 years. The objectives are to study:
 - How common is osteoporosis among Hong Kong men when they are compared 
 with the US and Swedish men?
 - What causes osteoporosis in men?
 - Which men should have assessment for osteoporosis?
 - Which are the genes associated with osteoporosis in men?
 - How does sex hormones deficiency in men cause osteoporosis? 
Professor Steve Cummings, 
 Professor of Medicine, Epidemiology and Biostatistics and Associate Chair 
 for Clinical Research, Department of Medicine, University of California, 
 San Francisco, praised CUHK for its excellence and research in medicine 
 in a congratulatory message.
"It is the largest study 
 ever undertaken about osteoporosis in men: the 2,000 men who will participate 
 from Hong Kong join 4,000 in the U.S. and 2,000 in Sweden for several 
 years of examinations to find out clues to the prevention of fractures, 
 prostate cancer and heart disease. I understand that this is the largest 
 NIH award ever made to an investigator in Asia. It is a tribute to the 
 many years of excellent research by Professor Lau and her group. Professor 
 Lau is recognized around the world for her excellence in research on 
 osteoporosis. In particular, the Jockey Club Center for Osteoporosis 
 Care and Control is recognized as one of the few best centers for research 
 and care in the world.
I have had the privilege 
 and pleasure of working with Professor Lau and colleagues for 15 years. 
 I look forward to another 15 years of close collaboration with her and 
 her team and CUHK," said Professor Cummings.
Professor Edith Lau said 
 in the press conference that osteoporosis in men is as common as cardiovascular 
 disease and diabetes mellitus, though not many people are aware of this. 
 Research findings showed that as many as 40% of Chinese men have osteopenia; 
 and 9% have osteoporosis. The total number of men in with osteoporosis 
 or osteopenia hence approaches 180,000. (see table 1)
CUHK research also indicates 
 some factors of osteoporosis in men:
 1. Body weight is the single 
 most important predictor of osteoporosis. Men with a Body Mass Index 
 (weight/height2) lower than 19 had 20% lower bone mineral density than 
 the rest.
 2. Depression can cause 
 osteoporosis. Men with depression have 2% lower BMD than normal men. 
 This can be due to hormonal disturbances.
 3. Dietary deficiency can 
 cause osteoporosis. Calcium, protein, vitamins, minerals, and fibers 
 are all important. Men whose dietary intake of calcium, protein, vitamin 
 A, vitamin B1, vitamin B2, vitamin C, iron, zinc and fiber are in the 
 lowest decile (10%) have 3-5% lower bone mineral density.
 4. Other life style and 
 medical factors such as smoking, having chronic obstructive airway diseases, 
 gastrectomy, thyroid disease or on long-term corticosteroid treatment 
 are also associated with osteoporosis. (see table 2)
Professor Lau concluded 
 that osteoporosis is a major and neglected disorder in Chinese men. 
 We recommend all men who are 65 years and older, and who have one of 
 the above characteristics to have their bone density measured by dual 
 X-Ray densitometry."
CUHK researchers will 
 conduct further research on the genetic, hormonal and drug treatment 
 aspects for osteoporosis in men, with grant from NIH. 
í@Table 
 1

Number of Men with 
 Osteoporosis in Hong Kong (percentage) 
¥»´ä±w¦³°½è²¨ÃPº¨kÊH¼Æ¡]¦ÊÀñ¡^


65-84
85 and older
All

Osteoporosis °½è²¨ÃP
 (T score &lt; or = -2.5)
28,540
(9%)
3,276
(16%)
31,816
(9%)

Osteopenia°½è±K«×°¾§C
(T score -1 to -2.5) 
135,006
(40%)
8,891
(44%)
143,897
(40%)

íGTable 
 2
 
Percentage reduction 
 in BMD for subjects 
 with risk factors
°½è±K«×´îÖ¦ÊÀñ

Cigarette smoking
§l·Ï
4%

No frequent exercise
¯Ê¥F¹B°Ê
2%

Chronic obstructive airway disease
ºCÊý¶ëÊI§l¹D¯e¯f
6%

Gastrectomy
­G³¡Á°£
5%

Thyroid disease
¥Ò¬¸¢¯e¯f
7%

Long term corticosteroid therapy 
 (oral or inhaled)
ø´ÁA¥Î¡]fAÎ§lJ¡^¥Ö½èÃþT¾J
8%
  

 
