[title]Round-the-CU Walkathon for Distressed Families Affected by SARS[/title]

[date]8 July 2003[/date]


Round-the-CU Walkathon for Distressed Families affected by SARS
 
Over 60 alumni, students and friends of the CUMBA community strolled 
 along the scenic paths of the CU campus amidst drizzles and showers 
 on May 18, 2003 for a good cause - to raise funds for the "Business 
 Community Relief Fund for Victims of SARS".
The "Round-the-CU Walkathon" 
 is a charity event initiated and organized by CUMBA students in collaboration 
 with the CUMBA Alumni Association and with full support from the Faculty. 
 The aim of the event is to help those less fortunate and particularly 
 distressed families and individuals who have been affected by SARS.
Walkers started their 
 6.5km journey at Chung Chi College. The 95-minute walk led them to all 
 four constituent Colleges of the University via the winding paths at 
 different levels of the campus, alongside spectacular views of the Tolo 
 Harbour. Perhaps when there is a will, there indeed is a way; showers 
 dwindled off as our CUMBA walkers progressed towards the finishing line 
 with a smile - and they had all the reason to express their content 
 - donations secured from the event and subsequent contributions amounted 
 to $73,300.
A brief but formal Cheque 
 Presentation Ceremony was held on July 8, 2003 at the Legislative Council 
 Building. Professor Vincent S. Lai, Associate Dean (Graduate Studies) 
 of Faculty of Business Administration and Director of MBA Programmes, 
 Ms. Miranda Cheung, President of CUMBA Alumni Association, Mr. Desmond 
 Chan and Mr. Leonard Ng, MBA student representatives presented the cheque 
 on behalf of CUMBA Alumni Association. The Honorable Howard Young, JP, 
 Southern District Councillor and Representative of Functional Constituency 
 of Tourism accepted the cheque on behalf of the Fund.
After the Ceremony, the 
 Honorable Howard Young expressed his appreciation for the fund raised 
 and the support that was shown to the SARS victims and their families.
CUMBA students, CUMBA 
 Alumni Association and Faculty of Business Administration appreciated 
 very much the generous support of alumni, students, faculty members 
 and friends who have contributed to the event in terms of participation 
 and/or donations and would like to take this opportunity to express 
 their deepest gratitude to all who were involved. 
 
No 
 fear of the heavy rain - the participants were walking with a will 
 to raise funds. 
A 
 brief but formal Cheque Presentation Ceremony held after the walkathon.
 Start from the left: Mr. Desmond Chan, Mr. Leonard Ng, the Honorable 
 Howard Young, Ms. Miranda Cheung and Professor Vincent S. Lai. 
  

 
