[title]Meeting the Challenge of Hong Kong Healthy Schools Award Scheme[/title]

[date]23 June 2003[/date]


Meeting the Challenge of Hong Kong Healthy Schools Award Scheme
 
The Centre for Health Education and Health Promotion of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong, being the advocate and administrator of the 
 Hong Kong Healthy Schools Award Scheme, announced a total of 12 schools 
 were presented "Hong Kong Healthy Schools Award" including 9 Silver 
 and 3 Bronze. The WHO and the Education and Manpower Bureau together 
 with the Centre for Health Education and Health Promotion are the awarding 
 bodies.
The first territory wide 
 'Healthy Schools' movement with recognition from WHO Western Pacific 
 Region, the Hong Kong Healthy Schools Award Scheme builds on the concept 
 of health promoting school proposed by WHO. It provides a structured 
 framework for the development as well as a system of monitoring progress 
 and recognition of school's achievement. It also embodies a holistic 
 school approach to promote school development in the following six areas: 
 School Health Policies, Health Services, Personal Health Skills, School 
 Social Environment, Community Relationship and School Physical Environment.
42 schools, 31 schools 
 and 25 schools joined in the Scheme in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. 
 They are assessed at baseline and can apply for accreditation within 
 3 years. It is a three-tier award system with Bronze, Silver and Gold 
 Award Status. All schools joined in 2001 and 2002 have gone through 
 a baseline assessment on their school health profiles and conducted 
 a survey on the health risk behaviours and emotional health status of 
 their students. This year, some schools have undergone the second phase 
 of assessment so they would gain better understanding of their progress 
 and also to be considered for awards. After thorough assessment and 
 discussion, 12 schools will be presented an award. These awardees have 
 showed a lower proportion of students with emotional and behavioural 
 problems compared with the findings of 2001 survey. It indicates the 
 benefit of a health promoting school.
During the assessment 
 period, oversea experts joined the validation process of the audit. 
 They accompanied the audit team on their accreditation visits to gain 
 a good understanding of our schools in Hong Kong. They held meeting 
 with the team to discuss the results of school assessment and also reviewed 
 our detail rating systems. They were both very impressed with our process 
 of audit and assessment tools.
Professor Albert Lee, 
 Director of Centre for Health Education and Health Promotion congratulated 
 the awardees for their outstanding achievement, "The aim of the scheme 
 is to give recognition and encouragement to schools with excellent performance 
 and practices. The schools were not competing with one another, but 
 against the pre-set standards. The scheme can promote quality education 
 and quality health care. By putting more emphasis on developing healthy 
 lifestyles amongst children and adolescents, we will have a healthy 
 generation of higher economic productivity and reduced health care burden."
Dr. CHAN Ka-ki, Principal 
 Assistant Secretary (Curriculum Development), Education and Manpower 
 Bureau, said, " The Education and Manpower Bureau supports the scheme 
 as it is in line with education reform aiming to enable students to 
 cultivate positive values towards life and develop healthy living style. 
 Through the concepts and practice of Health Promoting Schools, life-long 
 civic responsibilities could be developed to sustain a health promoting 
 society and upkeep the international image of Hong Kong for its law 
 and order, solidarity and vitality. The Bureau has recently invited the 
 Centre for Health Education and Health Promotion of the Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong to provide professional development courses on Health Promoting 
 Schools for school heads and teachers as short term measures for Team 
 Clean to re-generate a clean new Hong Kong. The Bureau is confident 
 that HK schools would continue to build on its strengths and put the 
 concepts of Health Promoting Schools in practice effectively."
Professor Lee added, "By 
 promoting a strong commitment to personal hygiene and healthy lifestyles, 
 it is the best solution to combat future infectious diseases and also 
 chronic illnesses. With WHO endorsement, the HK new image of a clean 
 and healthy city can be publicized internationally."
A formal Award presentation 
 ceremony is scheduled later on this year. 

 
