[title]CUHK Holds Orientation Day for Sixth Formers[/title]

[date]27 September 2003[/date]


 CUHK Holds Orientation Day for Sixth Formers 
 
To give sixth formers a better understanding of tertiary education 
 and let them have a glimpse of university life, The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong organized the Orientation Day for Sixth Formers on Saturday, 
 27 September 2003 to introduce the full range of programmes it offers 
 and give useful tips on admissions. Over 26,000 students, teachers and 
 parents visited the campus.
The Orientation Day provided 
 detailed and first hand information about the undergraduate programmes 
 offered by the University, and all the seven faculties of the University: 
 Arts, Business Administration, Education, Engineering, Medicine, Science 
 and Social Science and the four Colleges were open to visitors.
This year the University 
 is celebrating its 40th Annnnversary. Two exhibitions: Inventions and 
 Innovations and Impact on Education and Society featuring the University's 
 achievements in science and inventions, education and social services 
 were held on campus.
Mr Eddy Yeung, Senior 
 Assistant Registrar explained to sixth formers the developments and 
 the academic programmes of the University. CUHK students shared with 
 the audience their interesting and meaningful experience in the University. 
 Faculty talks for careers/ guidance teachers were also held.
 ยก@
The 
 campus was swarmed with sixth formers seeking detailed and first hand 
 information about the undergraduate programmes at the Orientation Day 
 for Sixth Formers of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Special 
 talks were held to explain to sixth formers the developments and the 
 academic programmes of the University. CUHK students shared with the 
 audience their interesting and meaningful experience in the University
 This 
 year the University is celebrating its 40th Anniversary. Special exhibition 
 "Inventions and Innovations" attracted a lot of visitors. 
 

ย
