[title]Reducing Systemic Blood Pressure and Cardiovascular Risk in Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Patients[/title]

[date]10 August 2006[/date]


 Reducing Systemic Blood Pressure and Cardiovascular Risk 
 in Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Patients 
 Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is characterized by repetitive episodes of upper airway obstruction causing sleep fragmentation, sleepiness, cognitive function impairment, and poor health status. OSA syndrome is common among the middle-aged Hong Kong Chinese male population with a prevalence of at least 4%. Untreated OSA is associated with increased risks of developing high blood pressure (BP), stroke, and fatal cardiovascular events including sudden death. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the gold standard treatment for OSA and it works by providing a constant pressure keeping the upper airway open during sleep. There is robust evidence demonstrating improvement of symptoms, cognitive function and health status in patients treated with nasal CPAP. However, there are conflicting data whether nasal CPAP can effectively reduce BP in OSA patients.
Researchers at the Division of Respiratory Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong have recently assessed the effects of CPAP on 24-hour BP in 46 patients newly diagnosed with OSA over a treatment period of 3 months. The patients were randomized to receive either therapeutic CPAP (mean pressure 10.7 cmH2O) or placebo CPAP (a device set at a low pressure of 4 cmH2O). The patients suffered from severe OSA with mean age of 50yrs and body mass index of 27 kg/m2. After 12 weeks of treatment, therapeutic CPAP led to reductions in 24-hr diastolic BP and 24-hr mean arterial BP of 3.5 mmHg and 3.8 mmHg respectively in patients with OSA relative to the controls. From large prospective studies using anti-hypertensive medications in non-OSA populations, a BP fall of such a magnitude would be expected to be associated with a stroke risk reduction of about 20% and a coronary artery disease event risk reduction of about 15%. While the main indication of CPAP treatment in OSA is to relieve disabling symptoms especially daytime sleepiness, even a modest reduction in systemic BP with nasal CPAP should be regarded as a bonus benefit, especially with the growing evidence of cardiovascular consequences related to OSA.
 


 
