[title]CUHK's Quantitative Finance Graduates Face Encouraging Employment Status[/title]

[date]31 August 2004[/date]


 CUHK's Quantitative Finance Graduates Face Encouraging Employment 
 Status 
 
A recent survey conducted by the Quantitative Finance Programme 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong reveals encouraging employment 
 situation of 2004 graduates. Apart from two graduates who have chosen 
 to further their study, the other 25 graduates are employed where 
 most of them got offers from multinational corporations by the end 
 of June this year, including HSBC Asset Management, Standard Chartered 
 Bank, Bank of East Asia, Bank of China, JP Morgan, Barclays Capital, 
 Big 4 accounting firms, Morgan Stanley and fund management consultants 
 etc.
They 
 can all apply their skills and knowledge learnt from the programme 
 to their current jobs, such as financial analysts, management trainees 
 and corporate financial consultants etc. with an average monthly salary 
 of HK$13,291. The highest salary graduate got an annual salary of 
 HK$390,000 while another graduate also got an annual salary of up 
 to HK$380,000. The survey proved the competitiveness of these graduates 
 who are much sought after by employers.
LAM 
 Gee Yu Will, now works in Standard Chartered Bank as a management 
 trainee said, "Better preparation before job interviews is always 
 to key to success. As we always read a lot of finance newspapers, 
 books, magazines and journal articles, we are more equipped to tackle 
 questions like the financial structure of India being asked during 
 my interview." LAU Kwan Ho, an assistant at Morgan Stanley shared 
 the same belief, "I am responsible for market research and analysis 
 at my present job. I meet my classmates at regular gatherings to discuss 
 and analyze the latest financial knowledge and market information, 
 which helps our analytical thinking."
TSE 
 Ka Li Carly also enjoyed the happy moments where she studied hard 
 and worked hard with her classmates. She is very satisfied with her 
 present position as a management trainee at Hang Seng Bank, "I am 
 now undergoing a three-year training programme in which I am given 
 the opportunity to work at various departments and learn different 
 knowledge. I enjoy working with my colleagues together in perfect 
 harmony."
LO 
 Foon Fun Helen, now an analyst at Accenture, pointed out the importance 
 of extra-curricular activities, "I participated in some case competitions 
 during my undergraduate study which does not only sharpen our thinking 
 and problem-solving skills, but also help cultivate my interest in 
 consultancy." NGAI King Kwok Anthony, a junior trader of JP Morgan, 
 agreed that there are numerous advantages in taking part in extra-curricular 
 activities, "I had been a member of the debate team which enabled 
 me to broaden my logical thinking and to cope with pressure."
Professor 
 CHOW Ying Foon, Director of Quantitative Finance Programme at CUHK 
 said, "The Quantitative Finance Programme has been attracting top-notch 
 students since it was launched in 1998. The programme has always been 
 one of the top three programmes with the best admission results at 
 CUHK. This year, our programme has even ranked second in the best 
 admission results at CUHK, just behind the BBA Programme in Insurance, 
 Financial and Actuarial Analysis offered by our Faculty. It enrolls 
 33 students in 2004/05 as compared with 25 last year. This year, the 
 programme also enrolled 12 top students from the Early Admission Scheme 
 with outstanding HKCEE results where a student got 10As, four got 
 9As, three got 8As and four got 7As, with an average of 8As."
The 
 Quantitative Finance Programme was developed in response to the need 
 for more quantitative and analytical skills by practitioners in the 
 financial markets. Participants will benefit from a Programme combining 
 business, mathematics, statistics and information technology courses. 
 Graduates will be able to work in general business or finance areas, 
 and have a good knowledge of derivatives and financial instruments.
Students 
 of the Quantitative Finance Programme always participate in various 
 extra-curricular activities to contribute their professional knowledge 
 for the society. The Society of Quantitative Finance, for example, 
 organized "The First Inter-school Finance Competition for Secondary 
 School Students" earlier and invited over 450 students of 19 secondary 
 schools in Hong Kong. The contest aims to cultivate the interests 
 of secondary school students towards financial investment and help 
 them grasp the necessary knowledge. It also helps to arouse public 
 concern towards investment education. The programme lasted for about 
 a month with the final held on August 7 at the CUHK campus. Apart 
 from a quiz on financial investment, the organizer also invited a 
 team of renowned financial professionals in town to deliver informative 
 talks to the participants. 

From 
 left to right:
 Lau Kwan Ho Frank, Assistant, Morgan Stanley
 Lo Foon Fun Helen, Analyst, Accenture 
 Ngai King Kwok Anthony, Junior Trader, JP Morgan
 Tse Ka Li Carly, Management Trainee, Hang Seng Bank
 Lam Gee Yu Will, Management Trainee, Standard Chartered Bank
 Professor Chow Ying Foon, Programme Director, CUHK's Quantitative 
 Finance Programme 
 
 

 
