[title]CUHK Establishes The Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics 


 

 

 [/title]

[date]8 November 2006[/date]


CUHK Establishes The Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics 
 to strengthen the role of Hong Kong as the Asia-Pacific logistic hub 
 
 Being one of the major gateways of China, Hong Kong has been assuming a key role in trading and logistics industry, especially in southern part of the Chinese mainland. At the same time, logistics industry is a major economic pillar of Hong Kong which forms the bedrock for furthering the city¡¦s economic development. With the vision of strengthening the role of Hong Kong as the premier supply chain management and logistics center in the Asia-Pacific region, the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), with the sponsorship of Li and Fung Group, has established the Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics (the Institute) to further consolidate research efforts on these areas. 
At the inauguration ceremony of the Institute, Prof. Lawrence Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK extended heartfelt gratitude to the sponsor, Thanks to the generous donation from the Li and Fung Group, the Chinese University of Hong Kong is now in a better position to contribute to the further development of Hong Kong¡¦s supply chain management and logistics industry through multi-disciplinary research, transfer of knowledge and technology as well as closer collaboration between academia and industry. 
In officiating at the ceremony, the Hon. Stephen Ip, Secretary for Economic Development and Labour said, With the rapid expansion of global sourcing and increasing specialization in production on comparative advantages, supply chain management becomes a key driver in enhancing efficiency, adding value, minimizing costs, and maximizing growth and profit. I am therefore most pleased to see the establishment of the Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics. The Institute will play an important part in the search for advanced technologies to facilitate supply chain integration and in the promotion of best practices.
The Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics pools the strength of the Center for Supply Chain Management and Logistics of the Faculty of Business Administration, CUHK, and two Centers, namely the Centre for Logistics Technologies and Supply Chain Optimization, and the Research and Development Centre for Supply Chain and Logistics Management of the Faculty of Engineering, CUHK. The Institute will focus on technology development, applied research and business process innovation on logistics and supply chain management. Open forum and high level executive programmes will also be developed for professionals of the logistic industry through its Knowledge Transfer Office. 
Dr William Fung, Group Managing Director of Li and Fung Group, reassured the Group¡¦s commitment to education through sponsorship to the Institute, Global competition demanded more intense integration and co-operation between suppliers and producers in the Chinese Mainland and logistics service providers in Hong Kong. We believe the Institute will provide an excellent platform for academics and industry practitioners to discuss issues, share research ideas as well as working out effective and practical solutions to benefit the industry as a whole.
I am pleased that the Advisory Committee can collaborate with the Chinese University of Hong Kong and contribute to the development of supply chain management and logistics in Hong Kong, said Mr Ben Chang, Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Institute, and Group Managing Director of IDS Group. I look forward to seeing more interactions between industry and the Institute in the future. Through working on joint projects and facilitating knowledge exchange, the Institute will be a catalyst to drive the adoption of best practices in logistics and supply chain management and keep industry practitioners abreast of the latest technology and methodologies.
Among the various plans in the pipeline, the Institute is organizing a series of seminar to share with industry practitioners key findings of the Institute¡¦s latest research and facilitate discussions in various key issues related to logistic and supply chain management in Hong Kong and the Asia-Pacific Region. It is also the mission of the Institute to build up a network of industry leaders to serve as a think-tank to facilitate further development of the industry. 


Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chanecllor, CUHK 
Dr William K Fung, OBE, JP, Group Managing Director, Li and Fung Group 
 
 

The Honourable Stephen Ip, GBS, JP, Secretary for Economic Development and Labour, The Government of the HOng Kong Special Administrative Region
Mr Ben Chang, Chairman, Advisory Committee, Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics, and Group Managing Director, IDS Group 
 
 

Professor Cheung Waiman, Director, Li and Fung Institute of Supply Chain Management and Logistics 
Plaque Unveiling Ceremony 
 
 

 
 


 
