[title]"Talking to CEOs" Show -- Leading a Non-Profit Organization[/title]

[date]25 May 2003[/date]


"Talking to CEOs" Show -- Leading a Non-Profit Organization
 
At first glance, being CEO of a non-profit organization may seem like 
 a cake walk compared to her commercial counterpart -- there is no bottomline 
 to watch, no share price impact to worry about. However, it could present 
 a different set of challenges, both in terms of meeting expectations 
 and building the team, according to Mrs. Pamela Chan, Chief Executive 
 of the Consumer Council, at the "Talking to CEOs" show on March 6, 2003, 
 co-organized by the EMBA Programme of the University and RTHK. The show 
 was co-hosted by Professor Leo Sin of the University's Department of 
 Marketing and Mr. Chow Yung of RTHK, and attended by students and alumni 
 of the EMBA and MBA Programmes. 
For Mrs. Chan, the easy 
 part of her job is the clarity of mission, i.e. protection of the consumer. 
 The difficulty is the wide area it covers. Funding is another issue, 
 which is further hampered by the fact that the Consumer Council cannot 
 accept donations. As CEO, therefore, Mrs. Chan has to explore every 
 possible cost-cutting and revenue-generating measure to get the resource 
 to meet the Council's needs. 
During her tenure, the 
 Consumer Council has been very successful in raising public awareness 
 of and the need to respect and protect consumers' right. The Council's 
 flagship magazine "Choice" continues to be popular. However, much more 
 needs to be done. Initiatives under consideration include genetics labeling, 
 a web version of the "Choice" magazine, and strengthening co-operation 
 with counterparts in other countries to protect cyber shoppers. 
Which is a more effective 
 means to promote interest in consumer protection - legislation or education? 
 Both are equally important, according to Mrs. Chan. In some cases, such 
 as the definition of what constitutes real gold as sold in jewelry shops, 
 legislation is needed. However, education and self-discipline are crucial 
 in all cases. 
How does a non-profit 
 organization which faces no competition maintain its standard of service? 
 In addition, in the absence of financial incentives, how can the CEO 
 motivate its staff?
 "We do not rely on competition 
 as a motivator to improve," replied Mrs. Chan. "Improvement should always 
 be our goal." 
"My management philosophy 
 is that I will always strive to be fair, ethical and balanced. I live 
 by the adage that 'What stalls our movement forward is not the mountain 
 ahead but the grains of sand in our shoes.'" 
Translated into practice, 
 it means constant communications up and down and across the organization, 
 as well as true teamwork and genuine appreciation of contributions. 
 Acknowledgement of the Consumer Council's achievements by members of 
 the public, the media and Government is, of course, great motivating 
 factors. 
Noting that Mrs. Chan 
 has devoted her life thus far to community work, Professor Sin asked 
 what are the benefits of volunteering for community work. "The benefits 
 are tremendous," said Mrs. Chan. "You learn to work with others, to 
 interact with people of different backgrounds and personalities." 
Turning to the question 
 of attributes of a female CEO, Mrs. Chan is adamant that gender is not 
 an issue. A CEO, regardless of gender, should have foresight, vision, 
 modesty and should never stop learning. 
So who does she look up 
 to?
Her heroes are great leaders 
 such as Dr. Sun Yat Sen, who do not only have a vision, but are selfless 
 in their pursuit for a worthy cause, often sacrificing themselves in 
 the process. 
They are good role models 
 for us, particularly in our current state of adversity, Mrs. Chan insists. 
 
Mrs. Chan's contributions 
 to consumer protection extend beyond Hong Kong. She was President of 
 Consumers International (CI) from 1997 to 2000. The Consumer International 
 is an international body of 270 consumer organizations in 121 countries. 
 
Apart from consumer empowerment 
 work, Mrs. Chan is also active in community and public services. She 
 serves on a number of committees and working parties to reform civil 
 rules and procedures of the High Court as well as legal education. To 
 monitor the estate and travel agents industries and tender advice on 
 education and consumer interest-related initiatives. 
Mrs. Chan was Member of 
 the Community Chest's Executive Committee (1994-2000) and Vice-Patron 
 (2000-2002). She was also Member of the Hospital Authority (1994-1997) 
 and was President of the Governing Committee of Princess Margaret Hospital. 
 She was also President of the Hong Kong Council of Social Service (1992-1996), 
 which provides 2/3 of the social services in Hong Kong. She is currently 
 Vice Chairman of the Admissions, Budgets and Allocations Committee of 
 the Community Chest. 
In recognition of her 
 contributions to the community, she was appointed unofficial Justice 
 of the Peace in 1991 and was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star in 1998. 
 

 
