[title]CUHK honours exemplary teachers[/title]

[date]22 June 2006[/date]


 CUHK honours exemplary teachers
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is committed to excellence in teaching. Starting from 1999, the Vice-Chancellor¡¦s Exemplary Teaching Award has been given annually to exemplary teachers from the seven faculties in recognition of their outstanding teaching performance. This year seven awardees were presented this prestigious award by Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J. Lau at the Vice-Chancellor¡¦s Exemplary Teaching Award Presentation Ceremony 2005 held on 9 June 2006. 
The seven recipients are:
 Ms. LEUNG Kit Chi, Ella, English Language Teaching Unit, Faculty of Arts 
 Professor Flora F. T. CHIANG, Department of Management, Faculty of Business Administration 
 Professor LAU Siu Ying, Patrick, Department of Educational Psychology, Faculty of Education 
 Professor Jimmy LEE, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Faculty of Engineering 
 Professor Gregory CHENG, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine 
 Professor LI Wai Kee, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science 
 Professor WONG Suk Ying, Department of Sociology, Faculty of Social Science 
The exemplary teachers were nominated by their respective departments based on their teaching performance, peer review and course evaluation. The departmental nominees were then presented to the Faculty level for screening and not more than three nominees from each Faculty will be submitted to the Vice Chancellor for the award. Each awardee is presented a certificate and a gold medal. A total of 49 awardees were given the award in the past seven years, some of which received the award more than once in recognition of their continued outstanding teaching performance. 
Meanwhile, the University¡¦s Centre for Learning Enhancement And Research (CLEAR) has recently published a book entitled Excellent University Teaching, based on the interviews with 18 excellent teachers who were the past recipients of the Vice-Chancellor¡¦s Exemplary Teaching Award. Through the joint efforts of the co-authors, Professor David Kember, Dr. Rose Ma and Professor Carmel McNaught, the beliefs and practice of these excellent teachers were transformed into some principles of excellent teaching. It is hoped that these principles can be promoted and shared among the institutions in Hong Kong and around the world so as to enhance the standard of teaching. 

 Seven awardees and Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J. Lau in the Vice-Chancellor¡¦s Exemplary Teaching Award Presentation Ceremony 2005 held on 9 June 2006. (Left to right): Ms Ella Leung, Professor Flora Chiang, Professor Patrick Lau, Professor Jimmy Lee, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J Lau, Dr. Tiffany Wong representing Professor Gregory Cheng, Professor Li Wai Kee and Professor Wong Suk Ying.
 
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Kenneth Young gives a brief introduction to the new book Excellent University Teaching in the ceremony
 
 
 
From left: Professor Li Wai Kee, Professor Wong Suk Ying, Professor Jimmy Lee and Professor Kenneth Young share their experience in teaching in the press conference today.
 
 


 
