[title]CUHK Achieves World Highest Resolution Virtual Human[/title]

[date]28 October 2003[/date]


 CUHK Achieves World Highest Resolution Virtual Human 
 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong has made breakthrough advancements in 
 virtual human research by accomplishing 3D reconstruction and real-time 
 visualization of the world highest resolution virtual human. The research 
 work makes possible for the first time on PC platform to achieve highly 
 interactive photo-realistic visualization of virtual human reconstructed 
 from gigantic digital human dataset. These state-of-the-art real-time 
 rendering and imaging techniques are essential core technologies to 
 support optimal and practical applications of these high quality digital 
 human data sets in anatomy teaching, virtual endoscopy simulation, surgical 
 training and all sorts of human-related simulation.
Led 
 by Professor Jack Cheng Chun-yiu, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK and Professor 
 Heng Pheng Ann, Professor of the Department of Computer Science and 
 Engineering, CUHK, the University Designated Strategic Research Area 
 in Computer Assisted Medicine was formed in 2000 and consists of over 
 30 faculty members. Its mission is to enhance medical diagnosis, treatment 
 and education through original research, innovative application and 
 intelligent integration of new advances in computing and engineering.
Virtual 
 Human is a 3D human structure built in the computer. To obtain digital 
 human data, a cadaver will be dissected into many very thin layers, 
 scientists will then take digital color photo of the dissected layers. 
 Data of each layer will be put together using advanced imaging technology 
 to reconstruct a virtual human body, which consists of exactly the same 
 anatomical structures as a real human. The most refined Visible Human 
 dataset collected by the US National Library of Medicine, is a female 
 dataset consists of 5,189 digital axial anatomical images obtained at 
 0.33-mm intervals, it is 39 GB in size. Within the last year, CUHK has 
 completed the processing of five Chinese Visible Human datasets originally 
 collected by the Third Military Medical University and the First Military 
 Medical University of the PRC separately. The highest resolution dataset 
 collected by TMMU is a male dataset consists of 18,200 digital axial 
 anatomical images obtained at 0.01-mm intervals, and it is 1,143GB in 
 size. By innovative processing of these ultra-high resolution digital 
 human datasets, extremely fine anatomical details can be interactively 
 visualized in 3D.
CUHK 
 has completed the reconstruction and 3D visualization of 7 virtual human 
 (5 Chinese and 2 American), and now processed the largest digital human 
 database in the world. The team is also the first to use the Chinese 
 visible human datasets in the development of virtual anatomy, virtual 
 acupuncture and virtual arthroscopy.
"Our 
 team has proved an outstanding example in computer-assisted medicine. 
 The reconstruction of these digital human data sets of Chinese origin 
 provides excellent resources for medical education and life science 
 research. Our strong collaborative research effort and clinical strength 
 can maximize the impact and utilization of advanced computing and engineering 
 technology in modern healthcare and medical education," said Professor 
 Cheng.
"We 
 have been working closely with our Mainland collaborators in building 
 up a comprehensive Chinese visible human database. We also work closely 
 with colleagues from the Faculty of Science and the Institute of Chinese 
 Medicine of CUHK and participate actively in several major funded projects 
 in applied genomics, nanotechnology, biosensor, telemedicine and traditional 
 Chinese medicine. These breakthrough achievements certainly strengthen 
 Hong Kong RandD in computer-assisted medicine," Professor Heng added. 
 
 
The first 
 3D Chinese Virtual Human
Virtual 
 Acupuncture 
  



 
