[title]High Prevalence of Undiagnosed Diabetes and Kidney Damage in Hypertensive Population[/title]

[date]29 September 2005[/date]


 High Prevalence of Undiagnosed Diabetes and Kidney Damage in Hypertensive Population
A study at The Chinese University of Hong Kong found that 25.2% of people with hypertension above the age of 55 years have diabetes (undiagnosed before) and another 40.9% had impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG), both of which are prediabetic states. Furthermore, 26.2% of hypertensive patients had albuminuria (increased amount of protein in the urine).
 Diabetes and hypertension are common chronic diseases of devastating consequences if left undiagnosed or under-treated. These conditions often cluster with other risk factors notably obesity and abnormal blood fat levels to form the ¡¥metabolic syndrome¡¦. Hence, global risk assessment is important in these high risk patients. Although fasting blood glucose is often used to diagnose diabetes, increasing data suggest that this value is not sensitive enough to detect diabetes especially in the oriental population. 
 230 hypertensive subjects (whose blood pressure &gt; 140/90 mmHg or on blood pressure medication) followed up at the Prince of Wales Hospital during 2002 and 2003 with no known history of diabetes and above the age of 55 years were invited to undergo oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and screening for albuminuria. Among them, 5.2%, 15.2% and 32.2% respectively had history of stroke, coronary heart disease, and hyperlipidaemia requiring lipid lowering treatment. In these 230 subjects, 22.0% and 55.7% were over-weight (23
?
body mass index (BMI)
?
25kg/m2) and obese (BMI&gt;25 kg/m2) respectively according to the WHO Asia Pacific criteria. 
Based on the results of the OGTT, 25.2% (58 out of 230 hypertensive subjects) had diabetes according to the WHO criteria (fasting plasma glucose (PG) ?7 mmol/l or 2-hour PG ?11.1 mmol/l). In these newly diagnosed diabetic subjects, only 15.5% had abnormal fasting PG value. It was worrying to observe that 19.0% of these newly diagnosed diabetic subjects had normal fasting PG value. They were diagnosed with diabetes based on the 2-hour PG value. Therefore, using fasting blood glucose alone would have resulted in missing diagnosis for diabetes on these 19% diabetic patients. Besides, 40.9% had IGT (2-hour PG 7.8-11.1 mmol/l) or IFG (fasting PG 6-7 mmol/l). These subjects had 2-5 times¡¦ increased risk of developing diabetes than those with normal glucose tolerance (fasting PG&lt;6 mmol/l and 2 hour PG&lt;7.8 mmol/l). Furthermore, 26.2% of these hypertensive patients had albuminuria which increases their risks of having stroke, kidney and heart diseases by 2-3 folds.
These results are in line with the concept of metabolic syndrome with clustering of multiple risk factors. Besides, abnormal blood glucose levels are very common in hypertensive patients, at least in secondary care setting. More importantly, fasting blood glucose alone is not sensitive enough to diagnose diabetes in these high risk subjects. The high percentage of subjects with albuminuria also highlights the high risk of these subjects for heart and kidney diseases, commented Dr W.B. Chan, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK.
 A similar study was conducted by a community-based specialist Diabetes Centre in collaboration with a group of family physicians between March and September 2005. One hundred and eighty-three (n=183) hypertensive patients with one or more additional risk factors for diabetes followed up in primary care setting were referred for OGTT and albuminuria testing at the Diabetes Centre. This study aims to assess the prevalence of abnormal glucose tolerance in hypertensive patients, many of whom are looked after by primary care physicians, commented Dr KY Kok, a family physician in Tuen Mun. Amongst these 183 subjects, 15.3% had undiagnosed diabetes and 29.5% had either IFG or IGT. Among those with diabetes, only 20% were diagnosed by fasting blood glucose alone. Furthermore, 18.6% had albuminuria. Our survey in primary care setting echoes that of the previous study and emphasizes the importance of screening for diabetes and albuminuria in the hypertensive population, commented Dr Norman Chan, Clinical Director, Qualigenics Diabetes Centre.
 Results from both studies have confirmed the importance of global risk assessment in hypertensive patients including screening for diabetes, abnormal lipid levels and albuminuria. To this end, family physicians play a pivotal role in identifying these high risk subjects through opportunistic screening and education. In subjects with one or more of these risk factors, oral glucose tolerance test should be used to screen for diabetes to avoid missing the diagnosis. The detection of albuminuria also calls for regular monitoring of kidney function and the use of medication with protective effects on the kidneys. Hypertensive patients with obesity should strive to lose 5-10% of body weight to improve these risk factors under the supervision of medical and qualified professionals, concluded Professor Alice Kong, Associate Professor, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, CUHK. 


 
