[title]CUHK Alumni Establish "WE CARE Foundation" to Support PWH Workers[/title]

[date]24 March 2003[/date]


CUHK Alumni Establish "»ôÃöß WE CARE Foundation" 
to Support PWH Workers 
 
Alumni of The Chinese University of Hong Kong announce the establishment 
 of a "»ôÃöß WE CARE Foundation" at the Prince of Wales Hospital (PWH), 
 CUHK's teaching hospital, to show their support and respect to PWH health 
 care workers in their hard battle against the SAR Syndrome. 
While staying firm in 
 upholding their hospital roles to protect the health and welfare of 
 the community, numerous health care workers at PWH, as the main front-line 
 public hospital to fight against SARS, are facing with tremendous pressures 
 and hardships, including direct threats to personal health, as well 
 as domestic and emotional issues arising from temporary isolation from 
 families and the community. CUHK alumni therefore decide to boost their 
 morale at this difficult time by making contribution to effectively 
 benefit those in need of support during this special moment. 
Purpose of the "»ôÃöß WE 
 CARE Foundation" is to help relieve immediately the more urgent personal 
 hardships for all grades of front-line workers in PWH including medical 
 practitioners and ward cleaners. The Foundation could also be used to 
 meet special hardship requirements of PWH workers in future. 
The management of the 
 Foundation is to be entrusted to the CUHK Medical Faculty. A Committee 
 chaired by the Dean of Medicine, Professor Sydney Chung, will oversee 
 and manage the related policies and fund allocation. 
CU alumni and members 
 of the public are cordially invited to make contribution to the "»ôÃöß 
 WE CARE Foundation" as a tribute to PWH workers and show them that our 
 community DO CARE. 
To make contribution, 
 EITHER: (i) send a donation check to "Office of Director of Administrative 
 Services, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT". The check 
 should be made payable to "The Chinese University of Hong Kong" and 
 marked "We Care" at back, with the donor's name and address stated. 
 Official receipts will be issued and sent by the University to all donors. 
 Receipts for donation of over $100 are tax deductible. OR (ii) Pay-in 
 the donation to the new "»ôÃöß WE CARE Foundation" donation account 
 293-005005-023 at any Hang Seng Bank branches. Send the original pay-in 
 slip to the above address [see (i)] with the donor's name and address 
 for the related official receipt. 
For enquiry, please contact 
 tel: 2609-7863, fax: 2603-6226, or email: daso@cuhk.edu.hk. 

 
