[title]CUHK Study Finds 90% Dry Crocodile Meats Retailed in Hong Kong Are Fake


 

 

 [/title]

[date]1 December 2006[/date]


 CUHK Study Finds 90% Dry Crocodile Meats Retailed in Hong Kong Are Fake
 
 A study by The Chinese University of Hong Kong¡¦s Institute of Chinese Medicine revealed that 90% of the dry crocodile meats retailed in Hong Kong are fake. Professor Paul But of CUHK¡¦s Department of Biology and Professor Pang-Chui Shaw of the Department of Biochemistry started six years ago to use molecular technology to check the authenticity of crocodile meats. They found crocodiles had specific DNA sequences, which could tell crocodiles and alligators apart from other animals. This year, using blood samples of the Bay crocodile Pui Pui and monitor lizards supplied by Kadoorie Farm and Gardens as well as crocodile meat samples sold at a renowned seafood company, they succeeded in identifying more specific DNA sequences to identify crocodiles and monitor lizards to species level. They then purchased 11 samples of crocodile meats in different parts of Hong Kong. Only one sample was found to be genuine. The rest were monitor lizard meats. Some previous samples obtained from the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department were actually snake meat. 
Professor Shaw said, The Chinese University has been actively promoting scientific research and applying research results to benefit the public. Prof But and I took the lead in the early 1990¡¦s to apply molecular technology to authenticate Chinese medicines. So far we have received several China and U.S. patents. Molecular authentication has several advantages. It is not affected by the age, sources and physiological conditions of the test samples. Moreover, only a small amount of sample is sufficient for analysis. With support from funding agencies and the industrial and private sectors, particularly the Research Grants Council and Hong Kong Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine, the two professors have studied over 50 Chinese herbs and their adulterants and substitutes. Their studies, for example, on differentiating ginseng and American ginseng and identifying genuine dendrobium (Shihu), have received China and US patents. In 2004, the team revealed unequivocally that Baiying, an herb for treating hepatic diseases, and the toxic Xungufeng, which contains aristolochic acids and can cause kidney failure and cancer of the urinary track, were erroneously swapped by the herbal industry in Hong Kong. The two professors are recruiting funds to construct the world¡¦s first DNA database for Chinese medicinal material, first covering the material in Hong Kong that are commonly used, easily confused, expensive or toxic and eventually the material listed in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia.

 
