[title]Social Entrepreneurship: CUHK's MBA Students Help Recovered Drug Addicts Start Business[/title]

[date]11 May 2004[/date]


 Social Entrepreneurship:
 CUHK's MBA Students Help Recovered Drug Addicts Start Business 
Five 
 teams of twenty-one MBA students from The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong competed on May 8 with the best business ideas for former drug 
 addicts of St. Stephen's Society who have entrepreneurial ambitions. 
 The Champion was "Tornado Inc", a business venture which offers affordable 
 cleaning and home improvement services to median income working families 
 using state-of-the-art appliances. The Team, comprising Vincent Wang, 
 Brenda Leung, Freda Ho and Dubey Vaibhav, also won the Outstanding Written 
 Plan Award.
 
Called 
 the "Booz Allen Hamilton Social Entrepreneurship Challenge Busines Plan 
 Competition", it is the first initiative of an innovative partnership 
 between the Chinese University's business school and renowned international 
 management consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton (BAH). The "Tornado Inc." 
 team will get cash prizes as well as internships with BAH's Greater 
 China operations, to work alongside its consultants on real consulting 
 projects.
The 
 Second Prize went to the team which proposed the "Artists Incubator" 
 venture. It proposes to bring artists and members of St. Stephen's Society 
 together to develop their talents and skills in creating original works 
 of art for sale. Team members are Venny Chan, Simon Sun, Joshua Granson, 
 Rebecca Lam and Natalia Palacios.
The 
 "Tornado Inc." and "Artists Incubator" Teams won because they best fulfilled 
 the judging criteria. Their plans are deemed to be easily implementable; 
 they support St. Stephen's Society's mission and provide unique and 
 novel ideas that give them a competitive advantage in their respective 
 markets. They also have a solid understanding of the financial requirements 
 of the business, have good estimate of the potential growth and return.
Another 
 business venture called "Mini" was presented with the Outstanding Presentation 
 Award. "Mini" proposes the establishment of a high-quality fast-food 
 restaurant serving bite-size snacks which appeal to those customers 
 with a taste for trendy, healthy and inexpensive food. Members of the 
 "Mini" team are: Marlene Chan, Simon Chu, Ryan Tam and Janet Shen.
Other 
 business ventures included recycled paper products for corporate gifts 
 and a composting service to turn vegetable and fruit waste collected 
 from hotels and restaurants into garden fertilizer.
The 
 winners were announced at the Awards Presentation Dinner held on May 
 8, 2004, at the American Club. Apart from senior representatives from 
 BAH, CUHK and St. Stephen's Society, other attending dignitaries included 
 Professor T.S. Lee, Dean of the CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration 
 and Mr. Frank Martin, President of the American Chamber of Commerce.
Since 
 this competition requires the business plans to be economically viable 
 and practicable for members of St. Stephen's Society, the competing 
 teams have spent many months getting to understand their clients' capability 
 and aspirations. They worked primarily with Goodworks Limited, a charity 
 organization that take rehabilitated members from St. Stephen's Society, 
 give them job skill training and help them find employment or start 
 business. The teams have done in-depth market research to ensure that 
 their business plans are economically viable.
"It's 
 been tough working on this project on top of our MBA Programme. But 
 it's well worth it," said one of the competitors. "It's a unique opportunity 
 of doing good work for the community and being rewarded internships 
 with a renowned consulting company like BAH."
Professor 
 Bee-Leng Chua, who currently teaches "Ethical Behavior, Social Responsibility 
 and Business" in the Chinese University's MBA Programmes and is the 
 coordinator of this project, is excited about the business competition. 
 "The BAH Social Entrepreneurship Challenge is an innovative collaboration 
 of business, educator and community organization, and the first of its 
 kind in Hong Kong," she said. "This is a significant step forward in 
 realizing our vision of developing future business leaders who are also 
 socially responsible."
"Ethics 
 and social responsibility have always been an integral part of our programmes," 
 said Professor Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration. 
 "This Challenge is a great initiative as it will give our students early 
 training in applying their knowledge to designing real business plans 
 for real people who probably need more help than the average job-seekers."
Mr. 
 Ian Buchanan, Chairman (Australia, New Zealand and Southeast Asia) of 
 Booz Allen Hamilton, who conceptualized the BAH Social Entrepreneurship 
 Challenge, was delighted with the outcome of the competition. "BAH has 
 a strong corporate social responsibility focus," he said. "We have a 
 long-standing employee volunteer programme under which our executives 
 take part in worthy community work around the world," he added. "However, 
 this is the first time we have a tri-party partnership to take social 
 projects to yet another level, and we are really pleased to have Asia's 
 top business school as our partner."
Booz 
 Allen Hamilton is a leading international management consulting company 
 headquartered in the U.S. With a history of 90 years, 14,000 employees 
 on six continents and an average annual revenue over US$2.5 billion, 
 BAH provides services in strategy, organization, operations, systems 
 and technology to the world's leading corporations, government, emerging 
 growth companies and NGOs. It has a long history of operating in the 
 Greater China area from its offices in Hong Kong and Shanghai. Its clients 
 include leading government, local and multinational institutions in 
 industries ranging from financial services, telecommunications, consumer 
 goods to transportation.
St. 
 Stephen's Society is a charity organization funded by private donors 
 and devoted to helping drug addicts kick their addiction habit, get 
 rehabilitated and return to society equipped with job skills. It was 
 founded by Dr. Jackie Pullinger, who started drug rehabilitation and 
 youth care in the Kowloon Walled City in 1966. Since its inception as 
 a charity in 1981, the Society has helped numerous welfare projects 
 in Hong Kong and is part of ACAN (Action Committee Against Narcotics) 
 and is the consultant to Narcotics Division Three-year Plan Policy Plan 
 Committee as well as a member of Hong Kong Council of Social Service, 
 and has succeeded in getting thousands of drug addicts get off and stay 
 off drugs. 
 

 
