[title]CUHK Hosts First Joint Conference of Chinese Poison Centers[/title]

 




[date]9 July 2005[/date]

CUHK 
 Hosts First Joint Conference of Chinese Poison Centers 
 Signifying The Importance of Collaboration Among Chinese Poison 
 Centres 
 
In Hong Kong, acute poisoning due to drugs or chemicals is common, 
 accounting for 4,800-5,500 hospital admissions each year and 5% 
 of the acute admissions to medical wards. The overall fatality rate 
 has increased steadily from[ 3.4% in 1992, 4.8% in 1995, 7.3% in 
 1998, 9.4% in 2001 and 9.9% in 2002. Apart from drug overdose, adverse 
 drug reactions and ineffective treatment due to poor patient compliance 
 or inappropriate changes in drug therapy are important causes of 
 acute medical admissions. 
Since 
 1988, the Drug and Poisons Information Bureau, Faculty of Medicine, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong, has been studying the incidence 
 and pattern of poisoning and drug-related problems in Hong Kong. 
 During 1992-1993, 88 (9.5%) of 925 patients were admitted to two 
 medical wards of the Prince of Wales Hospital because of drug-related 
 problems - adverse drug reactions (57 patients), drug poisoning 
 (22 patients) and treatment failure (9 patients). The most important 
 adverse drug reactions were gastrointestinal haemorrhage (21 patients) 
 and hypoglycaemia (14 patients). In 1994, 719 adults and 56 children 
 were admitted to a general hospital because of acute poisoning. 
 Important agents involved included sedatives/hypnotics, analgesics/antipyretics, 
 alcohol and household products. During 1994-1998, 339 subjects died 
 from self-poisoning in Hong Kong. The agents involved were drugs 
 of abuse (11.8%), therapeutic drugs (34.8%), household products 
 (6.5%), pesticides (16.2%) and carbon monoxide and liquefied petroleum 
 gas (21.5%). 
A poison control centre plays a major role in reducing the morbidity 
 and mortality by providing poison information and advice, management 
 of poisoning cases, laboratory analytical services, surveillance 
 of poisoning, research and education and training in the prevention 
 and treatment of poisoning. 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong organised the First Joint Conference 
 of Chinese Poison Centers today for leading experts from Beijing, 
 Shanghai, Guangdong, Taiwan and Hong Kong to meet with health care 
 professionals and food scientists to discuss the management and 
 prevention of food poisoning. Officiated at the ceremony were Dr. 
 York Y. N. Chow, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong 
 Kong Special Administrative Region Government and Professor Lawrence 
 J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University. Dr. Chengye Sun, 
 Deputy Director of National Poison Control Center, China CDC, Dr. 
 Jou-Fang Deng, President, Asia-Pacific Association of Medical Toxicology, 
 Dr. Liang Chen, Deputy Director of Shanghai Poison Control Center 
 and Dr. Hanlin Huang, Director of Poison Control Center of Guangdong 
 Province attended the ceremony. 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Medicine established 
 the Drug and Poisons Information Bureau in 1988 which provides a 
 drug and poisons information service to the whole of Hong Kong and 
 the Drug Development Centre in 2000 to evaluate old drugs and develop 
 new drugs. The Faculty of Science set up the Research Laboratory 
 for Food Science, Research Laboratory for Food Protein Production 
 and UGC-AoE Plant and Fungal Biotechnology Centre for research on 
 food sciences. Recently the Centre for Food and Drug Safety was 
 established to strengthen the work in food and drug safety. 
The 
 one-day conference covered common food poisonings in the Chinese 
 community. Poisoning, drug-related problems and food safety concern 
 us all because of their potential impact on public health. Collaboration 
 with other Chinese poison centres to allow exchange of drug and 
 poison information is also important because of the high frequency 
 of travel within the region. This First Joint Conference signified 
 the commencement of closer collaboration among the Chinese poison 
 centres and joint efforts of the Government, health care professionals 
 and scientists to facilitate toxicovigilance, poison control and 
 staff training. 






 
