[title]Group Sense PDA Ltd and Intel Semiconductor Ltd Donate 30 Sets Purposed Built Embedded Development Systems to Boost Research at CUHK[/title]

[date]28 January 2003[/date]


Group Sense PDA Ltd and Intel Semiconductor Ltd Donate
 30 Sets Purposed Built Embedded Development Systems to Boost Research 
 at CUHK 
 
Group Sense PDA Ltd and Intel Semiconductor Ltd donated 30 sets tailor-made 
 SA1110 Development System to the Embedded System Laboratory of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong for research and development purposes. These 
 systems, which are unique in Hong Kong, are equipped with the latest 
 StrongArm embedded processors and support easy connections to external 
 hardware devices. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
 added in color LCD displays and Bluetooth communication devices. With 
 the installation of these systems, the Embedded System Laboratory will 
 be able to bring its research and teaching activities to a new horizon 
 and to work more closely together with leading educational and industrial 
 institutions.
Group Sense PDA Ltd and 
 Intel Semiconductor Ltd have very close working relations with the Embedded 
 System Laboratory and share the view that a modern embedded system development 
 platform is an absolute necessity for future research and teaching applications. 
 These platforms should be very similar industry products yet flexible 
 enough to allow experimental work be conducted.
Any sort of device that 
 includes a processor but is not intended to be a general-purpose computer 
 is an embedded system. The use of embedded system in control applications 
 has a long history. The advancement of system-on-chip technology has 
 brought the applications of embedded systems to a new level, namely, 
 the development of networked mobile devices. We are now able to embed 
 very small and power efficient processors into wearable devices like 
 personal digital assistants, global positioning systems, 3-G phones, 
 biometrics sensors and other smart devices.
The Embedded System Laboratory 
 of the Computer Science and Engineering Department of CUHK which aims 
 at the wide range use of embedded system in research and teaching activities, 
 was set up in 2000 and has played an important role in an Innovation 
 Technology Commission project to promote the use of the Embedded Linux 
 system for industrial and research applications. It maintained close 
 links with the world's leading embedded processor suppliers and cooperated 
 actively with several leading local industry partners in technology 
 transfers activities. 

 
