[title]Valuable Experience for CUHK Business Student at Global Village[/title]

[date]8 September 2005[/date]


 Valuable Experience for 
 CUHK Business Student at Global Village 
Kitty Hoi-lam Tong, a Business Administration 
 student at The Chinese University of Hong Kong spent 6 weeks in 
 the Global Village in the United States and has a once-in-a-lifetime 
 experience. Candidates went through a vigorous selection process 
 and they were assessed by their academic performance, leadership 
 ability, hands-on business experience and willingness to learn new 
 things and new cultures.
The Global Village programme is a 
 6-week business program organized by Iacocca Institute of Lehigh 
 University in US. It aims to equip participants with essential skills 
 and knowledge of a future business leader in a multi-cultural environment. 
 The 2005 programme was attended by 80 young business leaders from 
 33 countries and regions around the world. These 80 participants 
 (including undergraduates, postgraduates, as well as business professionals) 
 came from a wide array of backgrounds and their age ranged from 
 19 to 53. 
Kitty is the only participant to represent 
 Hong Kong, and one of the eighth among Asian countries. The participants 
 attended business seminars, and talks delivered by outstanding leaders 
 in various fields including the US Department of Defense and the 
 United Nation. They also engaged in project presentation and company 
 visits, which included visit to the Federal Reserve Bank, a one-day 
 tour to New York City and a four-day visit to Washington DC.
Currently a third-year student 
 of the Business Administration faculty, Kitty will go on a year 
 exchange at UC Davis after the summer session. She is a member of 
 the CUHK Outstanding Business Students Academy and has taken part 
 in case competitions and a number of activities during her studies 
 at CUHK. Kitty has worked in Deloitte Hong Kong as a part-time officer 
 and during summer. The outstanding academic and work performance 
 of Kitty allowed her to be awarded a scholarship to attend the Global 
 Village programme.
 
 


 


 
