[title]A Pioneering CUHK Scientist Elected IEEE Fellow[/title]

[date]7 February 2004[/date]


 A Pioneering CUHK Scientist Elected IEEE Fellow 
 
Professor Michael Rung-Tsong Lyu of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong has been elected Fellow of the prestigious Institute of Electrical 
 and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for his outstanding accomplishments 
 in engineering, science and technology. Cited for his "contributions 
 to software reliability engineering and software fault tolerance," Professor 
 Lyu is the first scientist in China, including Hong Kong, for being 
 elected IEEE Fellow in software engineering.
Currently 
 Professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, CUHK, 
 Professor Lyu obtained his BS from National Taiwan University, his MS 
 from University of California, Santa Barbara, and his Ph.D. from University 
 of California, Los Angeles. He has extensive research and teaching experience 
 before joining CUHK in 1997, and has worked for Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 
 University of Iowa, Bellcore Morristown and Bell Laboratories, Murray 
 Hill.
An international-known 
 expert in the area of software reliability engineering including software 
 reliability design, testing, modeling and analysis, Professor Lyu was 
 the first to propose a design paradigm for N-version programming and 
 multi-version software. He further conducted real-world experiments 
 with multiple project teams to demonstrate the significance of this 
 paradigm in exploring software design diversity. Novel reliability modeling 
 and analysis schemes to assess and compare fault tolerant software architectures 
 were also initially proposed and evaluated by Professor Lyu. He was 
 among the first pioneers to show the effective application and interpretation 
 of software reliability models for software projects. Based on his extensive 
 experience in both industry and academia, he proposed several unique 
 approaches for software reliability modeling, which were widely recognized 
 in the software engineering society.
Professor 
 Lyu is a general chair or a program chair for many international conferences 
 in the software engineering areas. He has been serving on various advisory 
 and editorial boards in government, industry, and academic research 
 organizations. He initiated the annual International Symposium on Software 
 Reliability Engineering (ISSRE) in 1990, and received best paper awards 
 in this world premier conference in 1993, 1996, 1998, and 2003, respectively. 
 In addition to over 150 research papers, he published two major books 
 with long-term significance and influence: the Handbook of Software 
 Reliability Engineering (IEEE/McGraw-Hill, 1996) was proclaimed 
 as "A watershed software reliability book," and the Software Fault 
 Tolerance book (Wiley, 1995) was selected by the majority experts 
 in the fault-tolerant computing field as one of the four most seminal 
 papers or books in that field.
In addition 
 to software engineering, Professor Lyu has extended his research interests 
 to include distributed systems, wireless communication networks, mobile 
 computing, Web technologies, multimedia, and E-commerce systems since 
 joining CUHK. He initiates and directs the Video over Internet and Wireless 
 (VIEW) Technologies Laboratory at CUHK, which has received over HK$15 
 million funding in the past five years. 

 
 

 
