[title]SHKP and CUHK Present Public Lectures by Five Nobel Laureates[/title]

[date]3 May 2006[/date]


 Sun Hung Kai Properties and The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 Present Public Lectures by Five Nobel Laureates 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties and The Chinese University of Hong Kong will present the fifth widely acclaimed The Sun Hung Kai Properties Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures on 22 and 23 May 2006 . Five Nobel laureates will deliver public lectures of different academic fields to enlighten the Hong Kong public. 
The five speakers are: 
 Professor Robert J Aumann 2005 laureate in economic sciences and expert in analyzing conflict and cooperation through game theory, will speak on War and Peace . 
 Professor Robert A Mundell 1999 laureate in economic sciences, also known as the father of the euro for his work on currencies and monetary policy, will speak on Chinese Macroeconomic Strategies and the International Monetary System . 
 Professor Thomas C Schelling 2005 laureate in economic sciences; his game theory analysis has shed light on how to resolve conflicts and avoid war. He will speak on The Astonishing Sixty Years Since Hiroshima : No Nuclear Weapons Used Anywhere!
 Professor Samuel CC Ting 1976 laureate in physics and discoverer of the J-particle, will speak on Encounters with Modern Physics . 
 Professor Kurt Wuthrich 2002 laureate in chemistry for having developed magnetic resonance spectroscopy to analyze the structure of macromolecules, will speak on Structural Biology and Structural Genomics an Interdisciplinary Field for Physicists, Chemists and Biologists . 
The lectures, featuring the assembly of leading scholars in economics, physics and chemistry, will undoubtedly be a major event for Hong Kong . 
Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties, Dr Raymond Kwok said: Sun Hung Kai Properties is committed to promoting education and life-long learning. Globalization makes it imperative that we all equip ourselves with a broader perspective and the latest knowledge. Our Nobel Laureates Distinguished Lectures provide an opportunity for people in Hong Kong to hear world-class scholars and benefit from their vision. The scholars have all worked very hard to attain the brilliance that they have. Their determination in the quest for knowledge and truth sets a good example for our young people, inspiring them to give their best. 
CUHK Vice-Chancellor Professor Lawrence J Lau said: This mega lecture series continuously brings world-class scholars to Hong Kong and promotes academic exchange. The scholarship and insights of the Nobel laureates broaden the perspective of local scholars, while their personal charisma motivates our young people to learn. The relentless pursuit of new knowledge will help Hong Kong attain the highest international standards on all fronts. 
The lectures will be held in the grand ballroom of the Grand Hyatt Hong Kong and, as with previous lectures, a limited number of tickets will be made available to members of the public who wish to partake of the scholars¡¦ wisdom. Details of ticket collection will be announced later. The speakers will also address local university and secondary school students. 
The lecture series, launched in 2004, is sponsored by Sun Hung Kai Properties. The objective of having Nobel laureates speak to a broad cross-section of the local community is to promote the discovery and the dissemination of knowledge, professional and entrepreneurial expertise and contributions to humanity. After these lectures, there will have been thirteen Nobel laureates and other renowned scholars who have addressed the Hong Kong community.
 
 
 


 
