[title]ICM Received HK$600,000 from HKSA[/title]

[date]3 September 2003[/date]


 ICM Received HK$600,000 from HKSA
 To Continue its Research on the Anti-Viral TCM Preparation
 For Prevention of SARS and Other Viral Infections 
 
The Institute of Chinese Medicine (ICM) received a donation of HK$600,000 
 from the Hong Kong Society of Accountants (HKSA) to continue its research 
 on the anti-viral TCM preparation for enhancement of immunity against 
 SARS and other viral infections. A cheque presentation ceremony was 
 held on 3 September 2003 at the Centre for Clinical Trials on Chinese 
 Medicine (CCTCM). Mr. David Tak-kei Sun, President of HKSA and Mr. Kennedy 
 Liu, Chairman of the HKSA Community Services Committee, joined Prof. 
 Jack C.Y. Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, and Prof. P.C. Leung, Chairman 
 of the ICM Management Committee, to officiate the ceremony. ICM has 
 put up a plaque in the acupunctural research room at the CCTCM to acknowledge 
 HKSA's generous support.
This donation is an addition 
 to the contribution of $300,000 jointly made by HKSA and ACCA (HK) in 
 April this year. The previous donation was aimed at supporting ICM's 
 production of 42,000 sachets of anti-viral TCM preparation for free 
 distribution to the frontline health care workers of the Hospital Authority 
 (HA). ICM has also launched an observational study on the volunteers 
 taking the preparation to evaluate its efficacy.
Prof. Leung said, "3,160 
 medical staff have consumed the preparation and none of them infected 
 the SARS. The users commonly felt a marked improvement in their mental 
 and physical state. There was also a noticeable amelioration in the 
 unhealthy symptoms they had such as headache, muscular pain, high body 
 temperature, etc. Their sleeping and bowel movement habits were also 
 improved." Also, the CCTCM did blood tests for the volunteers. Prof. 
 Christopher Lam, Deputy Director of CCTCM, pointed out that the blood 
 test results confirmed that the immunity index of the users has increased 
 evidently. In view of the encouraging results, it was made one of the 
 strategic researches in ICM.
In response to the HA's 
 call for actions against SARS, ICM, with limited resources, formulated 
 and produced the anti-viral TCM preparation in no time and distributed 
 the sachets free to the frontline medical staff. ICM thanked all those 
 who have donated and contributed to the project and hoped that further 
 research for enhancement of the formulation will benefit the community 
 at large. 
From 
 left to right:
 Prof. P.C. Leung, Chairman of the ICM Management Committee
 Prof. Jack C.Y. Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 Mr. David Tak-kei Sun, President of HKSA
 Mr. Kennedy Liu, Chairman of the HKSA Community Services Committee 
  

 
