[title]CUHK-HKIEd joint degree programme[/title]

[date]13 December 2005[/date]


 CUHK-HKIEd joint degree programme to nurture
 quality teachers with a strong foundation in English Literature and Education 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and The Hong Kong Institute of Education (HKIEd) are collaborating in launching a unique joint degree programme in English Studies and Education. 
 It is the first collaborative project announced by the two institutions since the heads of both signed an Agreement on Deep Collaboration in the area of teacher education early in July this year. 
 Announcing details of the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in English Studies and Education in a press briefing today (13 December), Mr Lee Shu-wing, Director of Registry Services, CUHK said the joint programme is an excellent example of how the strengths of the two institutions can be combined to enhance the quality of teacher education. 
The joint programme will be a perfect platform for our two institutions to enhance our mutual understanding and to build a collaborative culture. We hope to collaborate more in future in different areas to capitalise on our complementary strengths. This will bring benefits not only to our students, but also make a positive difference to the education sector at large, said Mr Lee.
 The well-integrated curriculum is tailor-made to nurture professional and caring teachers with a strong foundation in English Language and Literature, as well as solid pedagogical knowledge and skills. Graduates of the programme are eligible for registration as qualified English teachers in primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong. 
Students of the four-year full-time programme are to study the equivalent of two years in each institution, with a wide choice of courses. They also need to go for a one-semester overseas study programme in an English-speaking country, and perform teaching practice in local schools in the final two years of their studies. 
[For details of the joint-degree programme, please refer to the attached Fact Sheet.]
 HKIEd Registrar Dr So Kwok-sang told the press briefing that graduates of the joint programme will enjoy excellent prospects, given the keen demand for qualified language teachers among local schools. 
In recent years, graduates of education programmes, especially those majoring in language, have been keenly sought after in the market. Joint programmes in general also provide more diversified career prospects for the graduates, said Dr So.
From 12 to 18 December, applicants through the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) have the chance of adding the new joint programme free of charge to their choices.
 Attachment: fact sheet 



 
