[title]Impacts of 26 December Tsunami to Hong Kong Citizens' Mental Health[/title]

[date]9 June 2005[/date]


Impacts 
 of 26 December Tsunami to Hong Kong Citizens' Mental Health 
 
The Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the School of 
 Public Health, The Chinese University of Hong Kong conducted a telephone 
 survey study during 11 to 16 January to investigate the level of 
 mental distress caused by the tsunami occurred on 26 December 2004, 
 and the association between the level of mental distress in the 
 community and different aspects of media coverage. The survey successfully 
 interviewed 603 Hong Kong Chinese residents (response rate = 54%). 
 
The 
 study, being the first of the type in the world, used an internationally 
 recognized measurement questionnaire instrument, the 
 of Impact of Event Scale (CIES) to assess the level of community 
 distress. It was found that Hong Kong people were much disturbed, 
 both emotionally and mentally by the tsunami. 30% of the male respondents 
 and 39% of the female respondents showed mild level of post-traumatic 
 stress symptom and 5.9% of the male and 8.7% of the female respondents 
 showed moderate or severe post-traumatic stress symptom respectively. 
 Many felt that they were emotionally disturbed (40.6%), horrified 
 (79.5%), or apprehensive (73.4%). 3% even showed psychosomatic symptoms 
 such as feeling very nervous, sweating and vomiting whenever thinking 
 about the tsunami. Avoidance behaviors such as avoid traveling to 
 other countries (24.3%), going to seashore (25.4%) or even eating 
 seafood in the coming 3 months (22.5%) were observed. 
42.8% 
 of the respondents believed that the tsunami was caused by human's 
 damages done to the ecosystem. 33.2% thought that natural disaster 
 is God's punishment to mankind and 21.8% said it is a major natural 
 disaster would occur to Hong Kong in their lifetime. Over 90% of 
 the respondents had donated money for the course. 
42.1% 
 of the respondents were exposed to 5-10 times and 30.9% were exposed 
 to &gt;10 times of different types of media exposure per day (on average 
 respondents were exposed to 9.14 times of different types of mass 
 media exposure per day). Not only that such was frequent, visual 
 images that cause unrest were frequently presented. High percentages 
 of respondents reported frequent seeing these images: buildings/cities 
 being destructed (82%), crying victims (61.6%), distant shots of 
 dead bodies (43.5%), close shots of dead bodies (23.3%), victims 
 losing or searching other family members, injured children (47.4%) 
 etc. Over 70% of the respondents felt high level of unrest when 
 viewing these images. The contents of the news messages were equally 
 disturbing. Many respondents reported frequently exposed to these 
 contents: rising death tolls (83%), lack of food or shelter (74%), 
 rotten dead bodies (54.8%), outbreak of epidemic (60.6%), children 
 being abducted (31%), lack of materials for relief work (54%). About 
 60-70% of the respondents felt very much emotionally disturbed by 
 these news contents. Female were more likely to feel much emotionally 
 disturbed viewing these images or receiving these news contents. 
 
The 
 investigator, Professor Joseph Lau Tak-Fai, Director of the Centre 
 of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong pointed out many international studies showed 
 that people who were emotionally disturbed by disasters (such as 
 the 911) might have long-term effects on their mental health. The 
 results of the study clearly showed that the mental health of the 
 Hong Kong people had been seriously disturbed by the occurrence 
 of the tsunami. He suggested media should be careful in handling 
 the reports of these disasters. (see Table below) 
Relative 
 chance of having moderate/severe posttraumatic stress symptom, comparing 
 those who did or did not feel unrest due to the following images 
 or contents
Unrest 
 due to following images
Relative 
 chance for having stress symptoms
Building/cities 
 destroyed
3.51
Land 
 flooded
2.66
Dead 
 bodies (near shot)
4.21
Dead 
 bodies (distant shot)
4.46
Crying 
 victims
4.05
Injured 
 children
6.75
Losing/searching 
 family members
2.95
Unrest 
 due to following contents
Relative 
 chance for having stress symptoms
Missing 
 Hong Kong people
7.66
Outbreak 
 of epidemic
5.11
Rising 
 death tolls
19.21
Lack 
 of materials for relief work
4.55
Children 
 being abducted
8.23
Riot, 
 rape
3.59
(All 
 of above are of statistical significance)
Other 
 factors were also predictive of mental/emotional distress. For instance, 
 those who believed that natural disasters are God's punishment to 
 mankind, those felt that major natural disaster would occur to Hong 
 Kong during their life-time, those who had relatives living in the 
 affected countries were more likely than others to be adversely 
 affected, mentally and emotionally.
 



 
