[title]Two Outstanding CUHK Scientists Elected IEEE Fellows[/title]

[date]29 January, 2003[/date]


Two Outstanding CUHK Scientists Elected IEEE Fellows 
 
 Professors Xu Yangsheng and Raymond Yeung Wai-ho of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong have been elected Fellows of the prestigious 
 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for their extraordinary 
 records of accomplishments in engineering science and technology.
For his "contributions to the design and control of space robots 
 and dynamically stabilized systems", Professor Xu Yangsheng is the first 
 scientist in China including Hong Kong being elected IEEE Fellow in 
 robotics and automation.
Professor Xu is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Automation 
 and Computer-aided Engineering at CUHK. He obtained his BS and MS from 
 Zhejiang University and his PhD from University of Pennsylvania in the 
 area of Robotics. Before joining CUHK, he was a faculty member at the 
 Robotics Institute, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University 
 where he directed the Space Robotics Laboratory and developed the world 
 first zero-gravity laboratory environment and various real-time controlled 
 space robots systems.
He has developed prototypes of robots that can walk or climb and 
 perform tasks on the space station, which has been used as a model for 
 robots working in today's international space station. Well-known robot 
 concepts such as the self-mobile space manipulator, detachable mobile 
 manipulator, and under-actuated robot with hybrid passive and active 
 joints were among the many of his achievements. He also developed the 
 world first dynamically stable robot system in a single wheel, gyroscopically 
 stabilized configuration. More recently he is researching in robots 
 for service and entertainment purposes, such as a wearable robot, a 
 medical diagnose robot and smart toys. He has also made contributions 
 to modeling and transfer of human control strategy to autonomous systems 
 and implemented in the world first autonomous land vehicle that drove 
 across the American Continent in 1997.
Professor Xu is a fellow of the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers, 
 an Academician of Euroasian Academy of Sciences, a Council Member of 
 the Chinese Society of Automation, a Council Member of Hong Kong Productivity 
 Council, and has been serving on various advisory and editorial boards 
 in government and industry and academic research organizations. He has 
 served as Chief Advisor to Chinese High-Tech Development Program on 
 Aerospace in Telescience and led The Chinese National Space Technology 
 Program in automation and robotics for space vehicle systems, and developed 
 the first national testbed in Beijing. Currently, he is leading research 
 projects in Mainland China on satellite chasing and capture for maintenance 
 and new generation of micro-satellite.
A leading figure in information theory, Professor Raymond Yeung was 
 elected Fellow of IEEE for his "contributions to network coding theory". 
 In fact, network coding is a theory invented by Professor Yeung and 
 his colleagues in 2000 and since then, has become an active research 
 area in communications engineering. Network coding theory totally changes 
 the way we understand how information is transmitted in a network by 
 refuting the common belief that information to be transmitted on a network 
 only needs to be stored and forwarded (very much like in a mailroom). 
 Instead, Professor Yeung proved that by means of coding, the information 
 transmission capacity of a network can be expanded. Network coding finds 
 applications in computer networks (e.g., the Internet), wireless and 
 satellite communications, distributed information storage, and network 
 security. Besides network coding theory, Professor Yeung also has made 
 breakthrough contributions in recently years to the research on the 
 mathematical structure of information measures.
Last year, Professor Yeung finished the book A First Course in Information 
 Theory published by Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers. This book is 
 an up-to-date treatment of information theory, and it has been adopted 
 in 2002 - 03 by top US universities including Cornell, MIT, and Stanford.
Professor Yeung joined CUHK in 1991. He obtained his BS, MEng and 
 PhD in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University, USA. Before joining 
 CUHK, Professor Yeung worked for ATandT Bell Laboratories. He is currently 
 Professor at the Department of Information Engineering and Director 
 of the Internet Engineering Programme of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong.
Professor Yeung is the Founding Chairman of IEEE Information Theory 
 Hong Kong Chapter and also a Fellow of the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers. 
 He also has served as Member of the Board of Governors of IEEE Information 
 Theory Society. Professor Yeung has been awarded the Senior Research 
 Fellowship of Croucher Foundation and served as a consultant in the 
 NASA project for salvaging the malfunctioning Galileo spacecraft. His 
 current research covers Information Storage Systems and Quantum Information 
 Theory. 
Professor XU Yangsheng, Dept of Automation and Computer-Aided 
 Engineering (left) and Professor YEUNG Wai Ho Raymond, Dept of 
 Information Engineering (right) .

 
