[title]Reduction of atherosclerotic plaque in the arteries of patients with coronary heart disease by lipid-lowering drug[/title]

 




[date]21 April 2005[/date]

Reduction 
 of atherosclerotic plaque in the arteries of patients with 
 coronary heart disease by lipid-lowering drug 
 
Ischaemic heart disease is the second top killer in Hong Kong, 
 just after cancer. Every year about 4,000 people died from this 
 disease in Hong Kong. The annual number of patients admitted to 
 the hospital for treatment of this condition is over 60,000. Many 
 of the patients survived from acute heart attacks may later die 
 from its complication, heart failure, a condition with a 3-year 
 mortality of about 35%. The risk of having ischaemic heart disease 
 is significantly increased with the following medical conditions 
 - hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolaemia and obesity. Furthermore, 
 lifestyles such as smoking, lack of exercise and constant high level 
 of stress also increase the risk of the disease. The disease is 
 in particular common in men and elderly population. 
Ischaemic 
 heart disease is caused by atherosclerosis of the vessels in the 
 body, a disease process characterized by the thickening of the arteries 
 with deposition of "plaques" inside the wall of the vessel. It is 
 also a systemic disease that not only affects the arteries of the 
 heart, but all over the body. Therefore, one of the main targets 
 of treatment in patients with ischaemic heart disease is to limit 
 the amount of atherosclerotic plaque formation in the arteries. 
 
For 
 the past 10 years the Division of Cardiology of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong has been in the forefront of research and new therapies 
 for ischaemic heart disease. One of the new treatment strategies 
 is the use of drugs that limits atherosclerotic plaque formation 
 in the artery. Our recent study found that this can be achieved 
 by the use of high dose statin therapy. Statin can lower the blood 
 lipid (cholesterol) level. However, it possesses beneficial effect 
 other than lipid-lowering. In a double blind, randomized, controlled 
 study 112 patients with ischaemic heart disease were treated with 
 either oral atorvastatin 10mg daily or atorvastatin 80mg daily for 
 6 months. These patients underwent ultrasound assessment of the 
 major artery (carotid artery) for the thickness of atherosclerotic 
 plaque, or carotid intimomedial thickness (IMT). The ultrasound 
 technique has been shown to be a good marker of atherosclerotic 
 plaque burden in the body. Our results showed that the high dose 
 regimen (80mg) not only prevent atherosclerotic plaque formation 
 in the major artery, but was able to significantly regress the plaque 
 thickness by nearly 10%. In contrast, a low dose regimen (10mg) 
 was only able to prevent the progression of the disease. This finding 
 is the first report of this kind in the world. The inflammatory 
 marker of the body was also measured, specifically the C-Reactive 
 Protein (CRP) level in the blood. Elevation of this marker has been 
 known to predict a high likelihood of heart attacks. The CRP level 
 in our patients was reduced by 66% in the high dose atorvastatin 
 arm, but was increased in the low dose arm. 
Recently, 
 the benefit of high dose statin therapy was also confirmed by an 
 international multicentre trial which was announced in the American 
 College of Cardiology annual scientific meeting in March 2005 (one 
 of the 3 largest cardiology conferences in the world). This study 
 examined 10,001 patients who had ischaemic heart disease and mildly 
 elevated cholesterol levels. Patients were randomized to either 
 atorvastatin 80mg daily or 10mg daily. The results showed that high 
 dose group has a highly significant reduction in risk of major cardiovascular 
 event rate by 22% which included myocardial infarction, stroke and 
 related mortality. The result corroborate to the findings of our 
 study in Hong Kong as reduction of atherosclerotic plaque in the 
 neck has been shown to reduce the risk of stroke. Our study was 
 also announced during the recently held American College of Cardiology 
 annual scientific meeting in 2005 as well as the "Advances in Cardiac 
 Imaging - Hong Kong" held on 19-20 March 2005 which was organized 
 by the Division of Cardiology of the Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
 CUHK in collaboration with Tsinghua University, Beijing. 
 


 
