[title]CO2 Pneumovesicum: A Novel Technique for Bladder Surgery in Children[/title]

[date]28 April 2004[/date]


 New Milestones in Minimally Invasive Surgery
 CO2 Pneumovesicum: A Novel Technique for Bladder Surgery in Children 
 
Minimally 
 invasive surgery (MIS) is one of the most important breakthroughs in 
 medicine in the last decade. The MIS technique entails the use of very 
 small endoscope, real-time videoscopic guidance and precision-crafted 
 laparoscopic instruments. These allow the surgeons to operate through 
 very tiny incisions without opening the body cavity. This new technology 
 has revolutionized the management of many diseases in adults and has 
 gained wide acceptance from both patients and medical professionals. 
 Although technically more challenging for the surgeons, MIS has in general 
 the following benefits: (i) faster recovery; (ii) less postoperative 
 pain; (iii) less operative trauma and stress; (iv) better preserved 
 immune function; (v) early return to normal daily activities; (vi) better 
 cosmetic results; and (vii) shorter hospitalization. It is apparent 
 that these benefits are even more obvious in children. In particular, 
 shorter hospital stay allows much less separation anxiety for the children.
The 
 Division of Paediatric Surgery and Paediatric Urology at the Department 
 of Surgery, The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been at the forefront 
 of the development of MIS and over the past years has pioneered many 
 innovative laparoscopic operations for infants and children. Indeed, 
 most (90%) of paediatric surgical and paediatric urological operations 
 in the Prince of Wales Hospital are now safely and effectively performed 
 by an endoscopic or MIS approach. The Division has pioneered a totally 
 new approach to bladder surgery by performing laparoscopic procedures 
 within the bladder under carbon dioxide bladder insufflation, or pneumovesicum. 
 This approach has been tried and tested in an animal model for its safety 
 and subsequently applied very successfully to a number of bladder surgeries 
 in infants and children since 2000.
Traditionally, 
 complex bladder surgeries both in adults and children have been performed 
 via an open approach which requires a large incision first over the 
 abdominal and then the bladder wall. Forceful retraction of the bladder 
 wall is required to allow adequate exposure for surgical vision and 
 manipulation and prolonged urinary diversion with multiple drainage 
 tubes through the abdomen, ureters and urethra are necessary post-operatively. 
 This is associated with severe wound pain and bladder spasm, significant 
 surgical stress reactions, prolonged hospital stay to 7-14 days, much 
 delayed return to school and normal daily activities, and a long unsightly 
 abdominal scar. Unlike the traditional open operation, this new approach 
 using CO2 penumovesicum allows various bladder surgeries to be performed 
 without opening the abdomen and bladder, and hence requires no urinary 
 diversion with abdominal drainage tubes post-operatively. This significantly 
 reduces the surgical trauma and stress, results in minimal post-operative 
 pain and bladder spasm, and allows a much shorter hospital stay. Children 
 can usually be discharged home within 24 hours after the surgery, and 
 return to normal school activities in just 2-3 days. In addition, the 
 resulting wound cosmesis is excellent.
Various 
 complex bladder surgeries in infants and children that traditionally 
 require a large open bladder incision can now be very safely and effectively 
 performed using this new CO2 penumovesicum technique. Vesicoureteric 
 reflux (VUR), a major cause of recurrent urinary tract infections causing 
 renal damage in children, often requires antireflux surgery by reimplantation 
 of the refluxing ureter. This constitutes one of the commonest paediatric 
 urological operation performed in North America over the past few decades. 
 Due to the significant surgical trauma and prolonged hospital stay, 
 however, many parents and paediatricians alike are often hesitant over 
 surgical management, and have instead chosen to manage these children 
 with VUR conservatively with long-term prophylactic antibiotics, despite 
 of the ineffectiveness of the latter in abolishing breakthrough urinary 
 infections and new kidney damage. With the introduction of a pneumovesical 
 ureteric reimplantation technique, the whole management strategy of 
 recurrent urinary tract infections and vesicoureteric reflux in children 
 may be re-designed towards more definitive surgical treatment that aims 
 at an early cure.
Other 
 complex bladder surgeries in infants and children that could now be 
 performed safely and effectively using the new pneumovesical technique 
 without a large open bladder incision includes relief of obstruction 
 and remodeling of obstructive megaureters, excision of large ureteroceles 
 with simultaneous ureteric reimplantation and reconstruction of bladder 
 base, complete removal of large bladder stones, bladder neck reconstructions 
 for children with urinary incontinence, etc, all with very satisfactory 
 results. This new pneumovesical technique has revolutionized the management 
 of many common paediatric urological conditions, and has set another 
 major milestone in the history of the development of minimally invasive 
 surgery in children. Results of these pioneering advances have been 
 widely presented in international conferences and the Division has taken 
 much pride in being invited to introduce these techniques to many prestigious 
 medical centres around the world. 
 

 
