[title]IBM and CUHK Launch the First EWeek in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]9 July 2006[/date]


 IBM and CUHK Launch the First EWeek in Hong Kong 
 to Foster Young Engineering Talents
EWeek encourages youth to pursue studies in engineering and science 
 IBM China/Hong Kong Limited (IBM) and the Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), today announced the completion of a week-long initiative in support of Engineers Week (EWeek), a private and public sector coalition focused on increasing awareness and appreciation of engineering disciplines. More than three-hundred students from four participating local schools took part in the program which engages junior-form secondary school students in a series of hands-on activities to spark enthusiasm and cultivate interest in studying engineering.
IBM and CUHK Engineering Faculty held four half-day sessions with student groups from the Pentecostal Lam Hon Kwong School, Carmel Secondary School, Baptist Lui Ming Choi Secondary School and CNEC Christian College. As part of the program, CUHK professors presented topics ranging from the history of microchips to peer-to-peer networking, and IBM volunteers guided students through games and competitions focused on applying science and mathematics skills. The winners from each school received certificates and the opportunity to visit CUHK research laboratories to participate in activities that offer a first-hand glimpse of interesting technologies and applications.
 Through games, we want to show students how engineering science can improve our quality of life. We hope they can develop an early interest in engineering and be exposed to the fascinating world of technology. said Professor Peter Yum Tak-Shing, Dean of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong. IBM is setting a great example of how the commercial sector can collaborate with universities to nurture young engineering talents. 
Although IBM¡¦s involvement in EWeek dates back to 1990 internationally, the program launched last week represents the first in Hong Kong. It marks the beginning of a three-year partnership between IBM and the CUHK Engineering Faculty to collaborate on further educational programs focused on developing Hong Kong¡¦s youth. 
Ensuring a well-educated and talented workforce is key to the long term prosperity and growth of Hong Kong, said Dominic Tong, General Manager, IBM China/Hong Kong Limited. We¡¦re committed to championing this effort in support of our local community.
For more information about EWeek please visit http://www.eweek.org/site/About/background.shtml 
 

75 students from Baptist Lui Ming Choi Secondary School participated the first EWeek in Hong Kong which cultivated their interest in studying engineering. They have applied science and mathematics skills in inspiring games, "Paper Tower" and "Hoop Glider".
 
Winning team of Baptist Lui Ming Choi Secondary School students received prize to visit to CUHK lab.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Students from the Baptist Lui Ming Choi Secondary School became little architects and strived to construct a tower by using a few pieces of newspaper.
About IBM
 For more information about IBM Hong Kong, go to: www.ibm.com/hk.
About the Faculty of Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 For information about CUHK Engineering Faculty, please visit www.erg.cuhk.edu.hk 


 
