[title]Update on Diagnosis and Surgical Management for Macular Hole and Epiretinal Membrane[/title]

[date]29 June 2006[/date]


 Update on Diagnosis and Surgical Management for
 Macular Hole and Epiretinal Membrane 
 The macula is a small area in the central part of the retina. It contains large number of light-sensitive nerve cells hence allows us to see fine details clearly and perform activities such as reading and watching television. Without a healthy macula, we simply will not be able to see clearly; the central vision may be affected by blurriness, dark areas or image distortion.
Macular diseases are now major causes of blindness world-wide as well as in Hong Kong. There are many kinds of macular problems and macular hole and epiretinal membrane are two common ones. These diseases occur more commonly in the elderly. With an ageing population, there are more and more cases of macular hole and epiretinal membrane identified in Hong Kong. Dr Wico Wai-kwan Lai, Associate Professor of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, said, Early diagnosis and treatment is the key to maintaining good vision. 
Dr. Vincent Yau-wing Lee, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, said, The introduction of modern diagnostic equipment such as the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) increases the diagnostic accuracy as well as provides a roadmap to the operation.
Macular hole and epiretinal membrane are the two relatively common conditions that are amendable to surgical treatments. However, surgeries for these conditions were not commonly performed in the past because of the potential complications involved. Nowadays, with the advent of science, technology and surgical skill, macular surgery can be done with good safety and outcome. In addition, we can perform combined surgery, i.e. having macular and cataract surgeries operated upon in the same setting safely and effectively, said Prof. Dennis Shun-chiu Lam, Chairman of Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences. He added, In view of the high chance of developing cataract progressively after macular surgery, it is a good option to have the cataract removed even in mild cases when receiving the macular surgery. 

 From left: 
 Dr Wico W K Lai, Associate Professor, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, CUHK 
 Professor Dennis S.C. Lam, Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, CUHK
 Dr Vincent Y W Lee, Honorary Assistant Professor, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, CUHK
  


 
