[title]CUHK Establishes The Centre for Catholic Studies[/title]

[date]3 November 2005[/date]


CUHK Establishes The Centre for Catholic Studies
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong received generous donation from the Catholic Diocese of Hong Kong to establish The Centre for Catholic Studies at the University¡¦s Department of Cultural and Religious Studies. The Most Reverend Joseph Zen Ze-kiun, Bishop of Hong Kong and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong officiated at the Inauguration Ceremony of the Centre today. 
CUHK is committed to the promotion of cultural exchanges between the east and the west. It has started to offer courses relating to catholic studies since its inception. Professor Lai Pan-chiu, Chairman of the Department of Cultural and Religious Studies and the Director of the newly established Centre said with the establishment of the Centre, it is believed that Catholic studies and research would be further developed at CUHK. The Centre aims at promoting academic research, training scholars, enhancing academic exchanges among scholars worldwide, and disseminating knowledge of Catholic culture, he said. 
The Centre will invite prestigious scholars to lecture and conduct research on Catholic studies at CUHK. It will also give support to research postgraduate students to further their studies and research. Also, the Department of Cultural and Religious Studies will offer a stream in Catholic studies within the Master of Arts programme in Religious studies, and other undergraduate courses and general education courses in the field. Besides, the Centre also plans to organize academic conferences, lectures for the public, and publish academic publications. 
 The Most Reverend Joseph Zen Ze-kiun attended the Inauguration Ceremony of the Centre as a guest of honour and delivered a special lecture entitled The Role of Religion in a Changing Society at the ceremony. From the perspective of Catholic theology and moral beliefs, Bishop Zen examined how religious convictions and mission affect its role and involvement in the society.
 
 
 


 
