[title]Li Ka Shing Foundation donates HK$60 million to set up institute of health sciences at CUHK[/title]

[date]7 April 2005[/date]


Li 
 Ka Shing Foundation donates HK$60 million 
 to set up institute of health sciences at CUHK 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) has announced a major 
 donation of HK$60 million from the Li Ka Shing Foundation to establish 
 an institute of health sciences and to fund clinical studies and 
 health sciences research at the Faculty of Medicine. 
The 
 newly established "Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences" will 
 devote its research effort mainly to areas related to the health 
 of individuals, with particular emphasis on sickness prevention, 
 clinical sciences, and regenerative medicine. Research foci include 
 early detection of severe diseases (e.g. cancers, genetic diseases, 
 common urban health problems, infectious diseases), innovative therapeutics, 
 and disease prevention through understanding of genetic susceptibility. 
 The Institute will also seek multi-disciplinary collaboration with 
 private and public partners in research projects related to personal 
 health and health education. 
The 
 Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, to be headed by Dean of 
 Faculty of Medicine Professor Tai-fai Fok, will be housed within 
 a new 12-storey building at the Prince of Wales Hospital scheduled 
 for completion in the fourth quarter of 2006. The new medical sciences 
 building will be named after Dr Li Ka-shing in recognition of his 
 contribution. 
The 
 Li Ka Shing Foundation has been a long-standing supporter of education 
 and healthcare related projects. Since its inception in 1980, the 
 Foundation has made over HK$2.3 billion in contributions related 
 to medical care and research, accounting for 35% of total commitments. 
 
CUHK 
 and the Foundation have a history of successful collaborations. 
 Two specialist clinics at the Prince of Wales Hospital were built 
 with the support of the Foundation in 1984 and 1997, respectively. 
 In 2001, CUHK joined forces with Shantou University, which is one 
 of the Foundation's major ongoing projects, to found the Joint Shantou 
 International Eye Center to provide quality patient care and to 
 establish a new social model for medical relief through the establishment 
 of a platform and network for the delivery of medical skills and 
 technology. 
In 
 thanking Dr Li for his generous donation, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, 
 Professor Lawrence Lau, said the university admired Dr Li's legendary 
 philanthropy and public-spiritedness. 
"We 
 are truly impressed by the many significant contributions Dr Li 
 has made over the years towards educational and medical causes in 
 Hong Kong and on the mainland," Professor Lau said. 
The 
 Foundation and CUHK are in active discussion to explore new possibilities 
 for future collaboration in the education and medical spheres. 
 Captions: 
 
 An artist's impression of the Li Ka Shing Medical Sciences Building, 
 which will house the Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences when 
 completed in the fourth quarter of 2006. The institute will focus 
 on research in sickness prevention, clinical sciences and regenerative 
 medicine. 
 
 Captions:
 Professor Tai-fai Fok will head the Li Ka Shing Institute of Health 
 Sciences. Professor Fok is currently Dean of Faculty of Medicine 
 of CUHK and a member of the Prince of Wales Hospital Governing Committee. 
 A paediatrician in his own right, Professor Fok is the President 
 of the Hong Kong College of Paediatricians and was honoured with 
 the Outstanding Asian Paediatrian Award in 2003. 
About the Li Ka Shing Foundation 
 The Li Ka Shing Foundation was established in 1980 with a mission 
 to nurture "a culture of giving" in our society. The Li Ka Shing 
 Foundation focuses on a two-pronged approach: capacity empowerment 
 through education, and the building of a caring society through 
 medical and healthcare related projects. To date, the Li Ka Shing 
 Foundation and other private charitable Foundations established 
 by Dr Li have supported numerous charitable activities with grants, 
 sponsorships, and commitments of over HK$6.8 billion. 
About 
 the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 Established in 1963, The Chinese University of Hong Kong is a comprehensive 
 research university of international renown. It has achieved academic 
 excellence in many areas and nurtured many distinguished graduates 
 who have made remarkable contributions to the local community and 
 worldwide. The Faculty of Medicine was established in 1977 with 
 the mission of "serving the community through quality education, 
 caring practice and advancement of health science". It admitted 
 the first cohort of students in 1981 and offers programmes at bachelor's, 
 master's and doctoral levels. The programmes in Nursing and Pharmacy 
 were introduced in 1991 and 1992 respectively. In 2001, the territory 
 first and only School of Public Health, which aims at promoting 
 public health through research and education into disease prevention, 
 health maintenance, and health care delivery, was opened. In the 
 same year, a reform in the medical curriculum was introduced. The 
 new system-based integrated curriculum enhances students' clinical 
 exposure and emphasizes the training of communicative techniques, 
 lifelong education capability and clinical skills. For the past 
 twenty years, the Faculty of Medicine has made great advances in 
 teaching and research, gaining international recognition as a medical 
 centre of excellence and producing top-notch medical professionals 
 for the community. 

 


 
