[title]CUHK MBA and Science Students Chasing their Dream of Entrepreneurship[/title]

[date]1 February 2005[/date]


 CUHK MBA and Science Students 
 Chasing their Dream of Entrepreneurship 
 
Amidst the quest to raise techno-entrepreneurship in Hong Kong, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) sends teams with new business 
 ideas to face real challenge from venture capitalists and officers 
 who are responsible for vetting government resources. While some students 
 regarded this as simply an academic exercise, what they do not expect 
 is that they might have landed possible investment from venture capital 
 and a slot in the incubators at the CUHK Centre for Innovation and 
 Technology or at the Science Park. More rewardingly, these students 
 from science, engineering and business schools will earn a chance 
 to realize a dream career of setting up and running their own firm. 
 If these students do so, they will certainly benefit not just themselves 
 but the community as well. 
New 
 and small firms are the major job creators in many developed economies. 
 Unfortunately, Hong Kong has been lagging in this respect. If the 
 experience of other developed economies is applicable, Hong Kong must 
 catch up in order to reduce its unemployment and to restructure its 
 economy. While it is easy said than done, CUHK takes up this challenge 
 in its effort to increase student innovation, entrepreneurship, teamwork, 
 competitiveness and international experience. 
Lately, 
 at the CUHK MBA Town Centre, six teams of graduate students competed 
 for CUHK's Vice Chancellor's Cup of Student Entrepreneurship (VCCE) 
 organized by the Centre for Entrepreneurship. Each team presented 
 its plan to the judges. Mr. Vincent Chan, Director and Executive Vice 
 President, JAFCO Investment (Hong Kong) Ltd, Mr. S.W. Cheung, Vice 
 President, Business Development and Technology Support, Hong Kong Science 
 and Technology Parks Corporation, Mr. Alan Ho, Senior Manager, Technopreneurial 
 Funding, Innovation and Technology Commission, and Mr. Simon Wong, 
 Director and Executive Vice President, Transpac Asia Limited, all 
 professional investors in new ventures, studied the written plans 
 and examined each team closely in a questions and answers session 
 following each presentation. In evaluating the competing ventures, 
 Mr Wong, a CUHK alumnus, commented that the quality is beyond his 
 expectation and would consider putting money behind the winning ventures. 
 Mr. Cheung expressed that he would be interested to incubate the better 
 ventures. Professor Hugh Thomas, associate director of the Centre 
 for Entrepreneurship, commented that the projects were the best he 
 has ever seen since he hosted such an event in 1999. 
The 
 winner of the VCCE was InMotion, a team targeting the rapidly-growing, 
 digital, writing instrument market. InMotion plans to launch 
 The Wizard Marker, a device based on micro input device systems 
 and micro electrical mechanical systems motion sensing technologies 
 developed by an award-winning research team at CUHK. By sensing and 
 interpreting the motion of the writing instrument, The Wizard Marker 
 will electronically capture what is hand-written on any surface and 
 will input that writing to a computing platform using bluetooth technology. 
 The device aims to solve critical problems that international business 
 organizations presently face in virtual conferencing. Highlighting 
 the increasing diversity of CUHK's graduate student body, winning 
 group members included full time MBA students Albert Climent, Angela 
 Li, Kevin Louie, Selina Wu together with PhD student in engineering 
 Shi Guang Yi. They will represent CUHK at the Moot Corp Competition 
 to be held at the McCombs School of Business, University of Texas 
 at Austin from 4 to 7 May 2005. 
Second 
 place went to MBA students Carol Fan and Tony Liu and PhD biomedical 
 student Johnson Yan for their project, Golden Health Company. The 
 company hopes to commercialize an inexpensive blood pressure measuring 
 device developed by a CUHK research group over the past three years 
 that continuously measures blood pressure electronically without the 
 need for bulky, inflated cuffs. The team perceives a huge consumer 
 market in China, where both hypertension and health-consciousness 
 are rapidly increasing. The team will represent CUHK at the Asia Moot 
 Corp Competition in Bangkok Thailand from 15 to 17 March 2005. 
Aktinomics 
 took the third place. MBA student team members Arion Maniatis, Lisa 
 Ren and Pranav Kapoor and joined PhD students Wenjie Xia (Medicine) 
 and Thomas Wu (Electrical Engineering) in presenting their diagnostic 
 devices that promise faster, cheaper, more accurate identification 
 of a wide range of bio-molecular substances. Based on targeted, optical 
 sensing, refraction technology, their device will be sold first to 
 research laboratories and later to clinics and hospitals. 
Pro-Vice 
 Chancellor of CUHK, Professor Jack Cheng Chun Yiu, who officiated 
 at the awarding of prizes, explained that the VCCE is one of two competitions 
 now held annually at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. Whereas 
 the VCCE focuses on the commercial viability of startup enterprises, 
 its sister competition, the Vice Chancellor's Cup of Innovation (the 
 VCCI), which will be held on 2 April 2005, highlights the innovativeness 
 of products developed by students. The winners of which will compete 
 in the 9th Annual China-wide Challenge Cup at Fudan University on 
 20 October 2005. 
According 
 to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor research undertaken by CUHK 
 Centre for Entrepreneurship, only three out of one hundred people 
 establish new start-ups. While the research team did not claim that 
 low start-up rate causes high unemployment, they deemed such a low 
 rate disturbing for the Hong Kong economy. Detailed reports are available 
 at its website (www.cuhk.edu.hk/centre/entrepreneurship). 
 
The winning team, Wizard Marker, presented their business 
 plan
Professor Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK 
 announced the result of the VC Cup
From left: Mr. Simon Wong, Director and Executive Vice 
 President, Transpac Capital Ltd 
 Mr. S.W. Cheung, Vice President, Business Development and Technology 
 Support, HK Science and Technology Parks 
 Prof. Jack Cheng, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 
 Mr. Vincent C.H. Chan, Director and Executive Vice President, 
 (Regional Investment Director, Head of North Asia), JAFCO Investment 
 (Hong Kong) Ltd 
 Mr. Alan Ho, Senior Manager (Technopreneurial Funding), Innovation 
 and Technology Commission, HKSAR Government 
 Prof. Hugh Thomas, Associate Director of Centre for Entrepreneurship, 
 Faculty of Business Administration, CUHK 
The panel of judges listened to presentations of each 
 innovative business plans 



 
