[title]Distinguished Business Leaders Contribute to the CUMBA Elite Mentorship Programme[/title]

[date]12 November 2004[/date]


 Distinguished Business Leaders Contribute to the CUMBA Elite Mentorship 
 Programme 
 
The new class of full-time MBA students at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong (CUHK) will learn real-life experience from some of the 
 top-notch business leaders in town under the CUMBA Elite Mentorship 
 Programme.
The 
 MBA Elite Mentorship Programme at the CUHK is into its second year 
 and has received resounding and ongoing success as a result of the 
 full support and dedication from the alumni. The programme was kicked 
 off on November 6 where new mentors and mentees gathered to know each 
 other.
Professor 
 Lee Tien Sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration expressed 
 heartiest thanks to the mentors, "The support from CUMBA alumni has 
 been exemplary in that the total number of mentors has increased to 
 40 from 32 last year. The role of mentor requires heavy commitment 
 despite their busy work schedules. This is a great demonstration of 
 their social responsibility and contribution to help our students 
 to climb up their career ladders and contribute to the society."
"This 
 year, our mentor list continues to look like a direct copy of the 
 Hong Kong Who's Who Directory with so many well-known faces and names 
 who are without doubt the movers and shakers in the society. This 
 is indeed the honour of our MBA students to gain valuable experience 
 from them directly," continued Professor Lee.
Ms 
 Miranda Cheung, Executive Director of Hutchison Harbour Ring Limited, 
 Chairman of the CUMBA Alumni Association and a mentor of the Mentorship 
 Programme (2000 EMBA graduate), believed that the programme is very 
 practical to students, "Our mentors, who are important industry icons 
 in town, can provide the students with coaching and guidance based 
 on real life experience and insights. The programme has indeed shown 
 the strength of our MBA alumni network."
"I 
 am very touched with the continuous support from our star alumni," 
 said Mr Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Human Capital 
 Consulting Limited and chairman of the Mentorship Programme Committee. 
 "They have generously contributed their valuable time and experience 
 to help nurture Hong Kong's future business leaders."
"During 
 summer this year, eleven mentees successfully obtained their internships 
 directly through this mentorship programme. They either worked at 
 the companies where the mentors were or obtained the posts at other 
 companies recommended by the mentors. These companies include PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
 Caltex Companies (Greater China) Ltd., Aon Hong Kong Limited, Campbell 
 Soup Asia Ltd., Li and Fung (Trading Limited); A-World Communications 
 Ltd., Bank of East Asia and Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd." continued 
 Mr Lee.
Mr 
 Cheung Wing Kwong Jackson (1989 MBA graduate), Chief Executive of 
 Societe Generale Asia Ltd. said, "I am very proud to be able to contribute 
 as a mentor in this highly successful mentorship programme helping 
 the CUMBA to grow our next generation of business leaders through 
 exchanges of experiences, ideas, culture and business vision."
Ms 
 Wong Wai Kwan Anna (1983 MBA graduate), Head of Private Banking Hong 
 Kong Teams of BNP Pasibas Private Bank also said, "I am proud to be 
 a CUMBA graduate and equally proud to be a mentor of this year's mentorship 
 programme. My previous experience with CUMBA students as mentor as 
 well as mentors co-ordinator have convinced me that they are of top-notched, 
 getting them in touch with mentors during their studies would no doubt 
 broaden their perspective as well as passing on the CUMBA spirit from 
 classes to classes. I am still in touch with my mentees who had graduated 
 two years ago and now I also learnt from them."
"The 
 Mentorship Programme links up both the alumni and students and the 
 alumni themselves. It helps make the CUMBA heritage to pass on and 
 its spirit to live on from generation to generation," said Mr. Luk 
 Koon Hoo Roger (1981 MBA graduate), Managing Director and Deputy Chief 
 Executive of Hang Seng Bank.
Ryan 
 Tam, full-time MBA student from the Class of 2005 believed that the 
 Mentorship Programme is a valuable experience to him, "My mentor, 
 Mr. Wong Yick Kam, Michael, the Executive Director of Sun Hung Kai 
 Properties Ltd., is always eager to share with me his experience, 
 both his business expertise and the values that he treasures as an 
 individual. Besides, Mr. Wong also gave me an opportunity to work 
 in his department as a summer intern. During my 8-week internship, 
 I was given the opportunity to work on different projects, and became 
 acquainted with different types of tasks in the field of investments."
CUHK's 
 full-time MBA Programmes were launched in 1966, the first of its kind 
 in Hong Kong. This was followed by the part-time MBA in 1977 and Executive 
 MBA Programme in 1993. Both the MBA and EMBA Programmes have, over 
 the years, received consistently top rankings. The MBA Programmes 
 are ranked Number 1 in East Asia by business magazine Asia Inc 
 for three consecutive years from 2002 to 2004. Likewise, the EMBA 
 Programme is also ranked Number 12 worldwide in November 2004 and 
 Number 1 independent programme in Asia-Pacific in 2003 and 2004 for 
 two consecutive years, and has also been selected as Number 1 EMBA 
 Independent Programme in Asia from 2001-04 for four consecutive years 
 by Financial Times. 
from left to right:
 Mr. Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Human Capital Consulting 
 Limited and Chairman of the CUMBA Mentorship Programme
 Ms Miranda Cheung, Executive Director (Finance) of Hutchison Harbour 
 Ring Ltd. and Chairman, CUMBA Alumni Association
 Prof. Lee Tien Sheng, Dean, Faculty of Business Administration, CUHK 
 
A group photo of mentors and mentees 
 of the CUMBA Elite Mentorship Programme. 



 
