[title]New Treatment Brings Vision Back to Patients with Diabetic Macular Edema[/title]

[date]25 June 2004[/date]


 New Treatment Brings Vision Back to Patients with Diabetic Macular 
 Edema 
 
Diabetes Mellitus is increasingly a major health problem in Hong Kong 
 and worldwide. Diabetes can affect the retina (diabetic retinopathy) 
 in 2 major ways. Hypoxia can lead to abnormal new blood vessel formation 
 (neovascularization) and leakage can cause swelling of the central retina 
 (macular edema). While hypoxia can be well treated most of the time 
 by timely laser, macular edema is the main cause of poor vision in diabetic 
 patients. About 10% of the diabetic population have macular edema and 
 the proportion increases to 30% in patients with diabetes for thirty 
 years or more. In Hong Kong, the age-adjusted prevalence of diabetes 
 was reported to be 9% in men and 6.3% in women, it is estimated that 
 50,000 individuals are suffering from diabetic macular edema (DME) in 
 Hong Kong.
Dr. 
 Carmen Chan, Assistant Professor of the Department of Ophthalmology 
 and Visual Sciences (DOVS), The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) 
 said currently the only proven treatment for diabetic retinopathy is 
 laser. Whilst laser treatment can usually satisfactorily treat hypoxia 
 and neovascularization and prevent its complications; the effect of 
 laser on macular edema is less promising. Whilst macular laser has been 
 proven to reduce the risk of moderate to severe visual loss, few patients 
 have visual gain after laser in the long term. Moreover, laser treatment 
 is a destructive procedure, which may cause many side effects such as 
 macular scar formation.
Researchers 
 in Germany pioneered the method of injecting triamcinolone acetonide 
 into the vitreous cavity of the eyeball (intravitreal triamcinolone 
 acetonide "ivTA" injection) to treat DME in 2000. Triamcinolone acetonide 
 is a steroid and has been around for a long time, being used to treat 
 inflammation by injecting into joints, muscles and around the eye. Injecting 
 it into the eyeball is a relatively new use, and the first clinical 
 application in human was started in 1996. Since then more than 90 scientific 
 papers have been published on using ivTA to treat various eye conditions, 
 including DME, age-related macular degeneration and macular edema as 
 a result of retinal vein occlusion. In published papers alone over 1500 
 ivTA injections have been performed. There have been many reports of 
 success in improving the vision of patients with DME with ivTA injections, 
 even for those who did not respond to laser. DOVS, CUHK has been using 
 it since July 2002 and over 150 ivTA injections have been performed.
Professor 
 Dennis Shun-chiu Lam, Chairman of the DOVS of CUHK, explained that the 
 ivTA injection procedure takes only a few minutes and can be performed 
 in an eye clinic; ivTA can also be given at the end of cataract surgery 
 for patients with both cataracts and DME. The results so far have been 
 encouraging. There is an obvious difference between the old and new 
 treatments. The mean maximum visual gain for those receiving ivTA within 
 the first three months after treatment is 3.4 lines; whereas the conventional 
 laser treatment, 1.1 lines. Although the long-term result of ivTA is 
 not yet available, it appears to be promising. Nevertheless, repeating 
 the injection is necessary in most cases.
No procedure 
 is without risk and about a quarter of the patients develop a "transient" 
 increase in intraocular pressure after the injection. This problem can 
 usually be controlled with eye drops alone and will usually resolve 
 by itself after a few months. We have not encountered other more serious 
 complications. Generally ivTA injection is a safe procedure.
Professor 
 Lam emphasized that prevention is better than cure and good diabetic 
 control can help prevent the progression of diabetic retinopathy. A 
 balanced diet, regular exercise, stopping smoking and good control of 
 other problems like high blood pressure and raised cholesterol will 
 also help. Diabetic patients should have their eyes examined regularly 
 by doctor. As for patients with existing DME, ivTA is a new alternative 
 treatment that can be recommended for consideration.
There 
 are various clinical trials on using ivTA injection to treat DME at 
 the DOVS of The CUHK. Patients interested in finding out whether this 
 new treatment is suitable for them are most welcome to call our telephone 
 hotline 27623168 or 2637 1343 during office hours. 

Fundus 
 Photography
Fluorescein 
 Angiography
Ocular 
 Coherent Tomography



  
 
 

 
