[title]CUHK Establishes the Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases[/title]

[date]25 September 2003[/date]


 Hong Kong in the Eyes of Mainland Tourists:
 The Good, the Bad and the Ugly 
 
A survey on the perception of mainland tourists in Hong Kong was recently 
 conducted by Department of Marketing, The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong. It was discovered that mainland tourists have positive perceptions 
 toward Hong Kong's international character, efficient transportation 
 system and hotel services, and negative perceptions toward its high 
 price, environmental hygiene and deceptive retail operations.
This survey, led by Professors 
 Leo Sin, Stella So and Alan Tse, covered 308 mainland tourists. The 
 majority are in the 21-50 age bracket, well-educated (80 per cent with 
 tertiary education) and relatively high household income (56 per cent 
 with monthly income of $5,000-20,000). They are mostly executives, managers, 
 government officials, engineers and self-employed business people. 68 
 per cent are from Southeastern China (Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen 
 and Jiangsu¡K), with the balance split equally between Northeastern China 
 (Beijing, Tianjin, Zhenyang and Liaoning¡K.) and other regions such as 
 Chengdu, Xian, Wuhan and Tibet.
The survey has also revealed 
 that sightseeing and shopping are the primary purposes of these mainland 
 tourists' visit to Hong Kong. Almost half have indicated their intention 
 to spend HK$5,000 or more in Hong Kong. Their top five shopping items 
 are, in order of priority: clothing/shoes, gold and other jewellery, 
 cosmetics/perfumes, consumer electric/electronic gadgets and photo equipment.
About 96.3 per cent express 
 satisfaction with Hong Kong, more than half say they will definitely 
 come again, and will also promote Hong Kong to their relatives and friends.
Compared with the package 
 tour travelers from mainland, individual travelers from the mainland 
 tend to have the following characteristics: 
 ¡P younger with higher income,
 ¡P from major cities like Shanghai and Guangzhou,
 ¡P visiting friends and relatives as their primary objective in HK
 ¡P have visited Hong Kong before
 ¡P staying longer in Hong Kong
Professor Sin and his 
 team have proposed that Hong Kong should have a clear direction for 
 the development of Hong Kong's tourist industry which includes:
 a) To have a unique and distinctive market positioning for Hong Kong 
 as a tourist destination
 b) To establish a strong strategic alliance with Macau and cities in 
 the Pearl River Delta region.
 c) Everyone in Hong Kong should participate and contribute to the growth 
 and development of tourism industry in Hong Kong. 
 

 
