[title]CUHK Licenses Novel Orange Fluorescent Protein to Stratagene[/title]

[date]29 July 2003[/date]


CUHK Licenses Novel Orange Fluorescent Protein to Stratagene 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) announced that Stratagene 
 has acquired an exclusive license to a novel orange fluorescent protein 
 from CUHK. Based in US, Stratagene has been known for novel, reliable 
 and time-saving products in fields spanning molecular biology, genomics, 
 proteomics, drug discovery and toxicology. Stratagene will develop the 
 licensed technology for potential future commercial applications. CUHK 
 is a research-intensive university with an extensive research program 
 in various fields, including biotechnology.
"We are very excited to 
 have obtained a license on this technology from The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong," said Dr. Nicolas H. Roelofs, senior vice president of 
 marketing and Asian sales for Stratagene. "In the future, we look forward 
 to collaborating with the CUHK and other academic institutions in Hong 
 Kong in the field of biotechnology."
Professor Kenneth Young, 
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, said "CUHK is pleased to join Stratagene 
 in this international collaboration of transfer of technology. It is 
 a fine example to show that Hong Kong has become a knowledge-driven 
 and technology-intensive economy. This is very much in line with the 
 vision of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region."
Professor David Wan of 
 the Department of Biochemistry and his post-graduate student Denis Ip 
 discovered the novel orange fluorescent protein in tube anemone. It 
 is the first native orange fluorescent protein ever cloned, and has 
 an emission maximum lined at the orange color region of the visible 
 light spectrum. The protein addresses the research need for a red-shifted 
 fluorescent protein and will be an extremely useful tool for tracking 
 and quantifying biological entities in the fields of biochemistry, biotechnology, 
 molecular biology, cell biology and medical diagnosis complementing 
 fluorescent proteins from other sources currently employed.
Professor Wan said "It 
 is gratifying to know that our discovery will be made widely available 
 through Stratagene's range of fluorescent protein products. I look forward 
 to working with the company on the further development of this technology."
With this license, Stratagene 
 is extending its line of fluorescent proteins, which currently features 
 VitalityR hrGFP Mammalian Expression Vectors. 
Fluorescent proteins 
 in a spectrum from red to green were successfully produced in the laboratory 
 at CUHK. 
Professor David 
 Wan (right) of the Department of Biochemistry and his post-graduate 
 student, Denis Ip cloned the first native orange fluorescent protein 
 from tube anemone. 
  

 
