[title]Hong Kong Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) Results Released[/title]

[date]3 July 2003[/date]


Hong Kong Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) 
 Results Released 
 
The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
 organized the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA). 
 This international study compares and evaluates the effectiveness of 
 the education system by assessing how well 15-year-olds approaching 
 the end of compulsory education have acquired the knowledge and skills 
 essential for participation in society. Over 40 countries and regions 
 joined the Programme.
The HKPISA was conducted 
 by the Hong Kong Centre for International Student Assessment of the 
 Institute of Education Research of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
 During January to February 2002, 4,405 students from 140 schools including 
 government, aided and independent schools were randomly selected for 
 the assessment exercise.
Overall, Hong Kong students 
 performed well compared with students in most other countries, ranking 
 first in mathematics, third in science, and sixth in reading among the 
 participating countries. Researchers studied the equality in education 
 and how students' socio-economic backgrounds (SES) affect their ability, 
 together with other factors affecting students' reading, mathematical 
 and scientific literacy. As far as equality in education is concerned, 
 Hong Kong's high scores were not gained at the expense of higher inequality 
 in schooling. The disparities between high (95th percentile) and low 
 achievers (5th percentile) are relatively small, suggesting that most 
 students in Hong Kong have similar access to, and benefit from, the 
 Hong Kong educational system.
The study also found that 
 parental involvement is important to students' literacy performance. 
 Students who communicated with their parents more often about daily 
 "social" topics (e.g. discussing schoolwork, spending time talking, 
 and eating the evening meal together) tended to perform better in reading, 
 mathematics and science. Both cultural communication (e.g. discussing 
 books, films and television programs and political and social issues) 
 and cultural activities (e.g. visiting museums, going to concerts and 
 watching live theatre) had moderately positive effects on literacy performance 
 in Hong Kong and many countries. Family homework supervision was negatively 
 associated with literacy performance. In other words, low achievers 
 obtained more family support in homework supervision. This indicates 
 that lower achievers may need more help from family members than higher 
 achievers.
An interesting relationship 
 between parental investment and student literacy performance was observed. 
 Students whose parents invested more on educational resources such as 
 a desk, a calculator, a dictionary and a quiet place to study performed 
 better than others. In particular, the number of books at home has a 
 strong positive association with the three domains of literacy performance. 
 However, material resources such as cellular phones, TV sets, computers, 
 motorcars, and so on were found to have negative effects on achievement 
 in Hong Kong. This result is inconsistent with those results identified 
 in many other countries whereas family possessions usually have a small 
 positive effect on achievement.
The study proves that 
 with cooperation and involvement of schools, teachers and parents, we 
 are able to provide a quality and equal learning environment for our 
 younger generation. Another round of assessment, HKPISA 2003, is now 
 in process and schools are being invited to join. The assessment will 
 concentrate on mathematical ability. Assessment result of individual 
 school will be kept in confidence. Participating schools will be notified 
 their own result and that of Hong Kong as a whole. 
 

 
