[title]CUHK and Tsinghua University Celebrate the 5th Anniversary of MBA Programme in Finance[/title]

[date]6 June 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 and Tsinghua University Celebrate the 5th Anniversary of
 MBA Programme in Finance 
 
It has been five years since The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 and Tsinghua University jointly started the MBA Programme in Finance 
 in 2000. The two universities held a celebratory ceremony at the 
 School of Economics and Management of Tsinghua University in Beijing 
 to celebrate the 5th anniversary of the programme earlier, where 
 over 250 teachers, alumni and students gathered in this commemorative 
 reunion. 
The 
 joint programme has been enrolling students at the Tsinghua University's 
 campus in Beijing. Since 2004, the programme has enrolled new class 
 of students in Shenzhen as well. In the past five years, more than 
 220 talents have graduated from this programme, and become senior 
 executives of listed companies, multinationals or large enterprises. 
 Some of them also join the core management team of financial institutions. 
 They have worked very hard and made significant contribution to 
 society. 
Highlights 
 of the day included the "Finance Forum for the 5th Anniversary of 
 the MBA Programme in Finance" and the alumni gathering themed "My 
 enterprise and I", in which the alumni exchanged their background 
 and experience with one another. Twelve student representatives 
 from five classes shared the insight they gained during their study, 
 their management experience and other financial hot topics. Professor 
 Jianxi Wang, the Vice President of Central Huijin, spoke at the 
 Forum. His impressive speech on "The Reform of Wholly State-Owned 
 Banks" was thought-provoking for the alumni and guests. 
Professor 
 Tong Yunhuan, Associate Dean of the School of Economics and Management 
 of Tsinghua University was the master of ceremony of the dinner. 
 Other guests included Mr. Fan Boyuan, the Vice-Mayor of Beijing; 
 Professor Kenneth Young, the CUHK's Pro-Vice-Chancellor; Professor 
 He Jiankun, Vice President of the Tsinghua University; Professor 
 Zhao Chunjun, Dean of the School of Economics and Management of Tsinghua 
 University; Professor Lin Xiaokang, Associate Dean of the Shenzhen 
 Graduate School of Tsinghua University and Professor He Jia, Director 
 of the MBA Programme in Finance. 
To 
 recognize the fruitful results of the five-year co-operation between 
 the CUHK and Tsinghua University, the two schools presented the 
 Outstanding Contribution Awards to the outstanding teachers, including 
 Professor Zhao Chunjun, Dean of the School of Economics and Management 
 of Tsinghua University; Professor Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of the CUHK's 
 Faculty of Business Administration; Professor He Jia, Director of 
 the MBA Programme in Finance and Professor Chen Guoquan from the 
 School of Economics and Management of Tsinghua University. Contribution 
 Awards had also been presented to some teacher representatives. 
 
Professor 
 He Jia, Director of the MBA Programme in Finance said, "In view 
 of the huge market demand in the future, the CUHK and Tsinghua University 
 launched the MBA Programme in Finance in 2000. As the globalization 
 process accelerates, China faces increasingly competitive environment 
 in the global arena. Financial globalization is an essential part 
 of economic globalization, the reform and development of the financial 
 market plays a significant role in the development of China's economy. 
 The two schools wish to, through their cross-century co-operation 
 and synergy, nurture more senior financial management talents who 
 are well-equipped with theory and practical experience of international 
 financial management and are familiar with the situation in China. 
 We are happy to celebrate the 5th anniversary of the programme, 
 and we will continue to improve our programme to nurture more financial 
 talents for the greater China." 
 The teachers of the CUHK and Tsinghua University celebrated the 
 5th Anniversary of the MBA Programme in Finance with the guests.
 Professor Kenneth Young, CUHK's Pro-Vice-Chancellor (left) 
 and Professor He Jiankun, Tsinghua University's Vice President exchanged 
 souvenirs. 
 The "Outstanding Contribution Awards" were presented by the two 
 universities. From left to right: Professor He Jia, Director 
 of the MBA Programme in Finance (CUHK); Professor He Jiankun, Vice 
 President of the Tsinghua University; Professor Kenneth Young, CUHK's 
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor; Professor Zhao Chunjun, Dean of the School 
 of Economics and Management of Tsinghua University; Professor Chen 
 Guoquan from Tsinghua University 
 




 
