[title]The Chinese University Admits Top Students[/title]

[date]1 September 2006[/date]


 The Chinese University Admits Top Students
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong held the Inauguration Ceremony for Undergraduates of the 2006 intake today. Over 2,000 freshmen, including non-local undergraduates and overseas exchange students attended the ceremony after several weeks of orientation programmes.
The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Lawrence J. Lau extended a warm welcome to the freshmen. He spoke on future development plans of the University in preparation for the change to a four-year curriculum and on the establishment of new colleges. He also reported on this year¡¦s admission statistics, commending students on their outstanding achievements.
A Most Preferred University
This year, CUHK admitted 24 students with 4As or above in the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination, including one 6As student. They were all awarded a full fee matriculation scholarship. Of the top 1,000 JUPAS entrants, half were admitted to CUHK. JUPAS statistics also show that CUHK admitted the largest share of both first-choice and Band A JUPAS applicants among all local tertiary institutions. 
This year, 181 outstanding secondary six students were admitted through the Early Admissions Scheme, the largest number among the three participating institutions. Besides, there were 493 applicants under the School Principal¡¦s Nomination Scheme, where 86 students were admitted. They include recipients of the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Prize, champion of the International Triathlon Tournament (Youth Section), and champion of the Hong Kong Interschool Basketball Marathon Tournament. Under the Self-recommendation Scheme, CUHK admitted 48 students out of 3,337 applicants.
Top Scores Students from Mainland
240 outstanding Mainland undergraduates were admitted through the Unified National Colleges Admissions System, including the top scorers in Guangdong, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Shandong. In the 14 provinces and municipalities which have provided ranking information (the number of candidates in these provinces/municipalities ranges from 0.1 to 0.7 million), 15 students admitted by CUHK rank among the top 10, and 47 students rank within the top 500. English proficiency of these students is particularly impressive, with 10 students scoring above the 95th percentile and the average score above the 88th percentile in the English paper. 
Education without Borders
CUHK is committed to providing a multicultural ecology on campus and students are expected to live and work with young people from different cultures. This year, CUHK admitted 300 non-local undergraduates from 20 Mainland provinces and municipalities, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, Mauritius, Singapore, Slovakia, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, United Kingdom and United States etc. 
For this academic year, CUHK plans to enroll 800 overseas exchange students, while around 600 CUHK students will participate in exchange programmes abroad to enhance their international exposure and global perspective.
 Appendix: CUHK admissions figures 2006-07
1.
CUHK admitted the cream of the crop
 
¡E
For the top 1,000 JUPAS entrants, 500 were enrolled at CUHK, which is half of the total sum among all local tertiary institutions.
 
 
¡E
 CUHK admitted 24 students with 4As or above in HKALE, including one 6As student majoring in Professional Accountancy.
 
¡E
CUHK admitted 181 secondary six students through the Early Admissions Scheme, the highest number among the three participating universities. 8 of them obtained 10As or 9As in HKCEE.
 
 
 
2.
CUHK admitted the largest number of first-choice candidates
 
¡E
CUHK admitted 1,505 first-choice JUPAS applicants, the largest share (31%) among all local universities.
 
 
 
 
3.
The top ten CUHK programs
 
 

Over 2,000 freshmen attended the Inauguration Ceremony for Undergraduates.
 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau addressed the freshmen at the Inauguration Ceremony for Undergraduates. 
 
 
Professor Lawrence J. Lau and this year's overseas exchange students.
 
 


 
