[title]Chinese University and Microsoft Research Asia Establish Joint Laboratory[/title]

[date]4 May 2005[/date]


Chinese 
 University and Microsoft Research Asia Establish Joint Laboratory 
 
 
The Inauguration Ceremony of the Microsoft-CUHK Joint Laboratory 
 for Human-Centric Computing and Interface Technologies was held 
 today at the Chinese University. Officiating guests included Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong; Dr. Hsiao-Wuen Hon, Assistant Managing Director of Microsoft 
 Research Asia; Professor Andrew Yao, Distinguished Professor-at-Large 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong; and Professor Peter Yum, 
 Dean of Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
The 
 Chinese University and Microsoft Research Asia have long-standing 
 academic and research collaboration. Establishment of the joint 
 laboratory will further unite research strengths of both sides to 
 develop innovative human-centric computing and interface technologies 
 that improve quality of life. The joint laboratory will also strive 
 to promote collaboration between the academia and the IT industry, 
 provide leading research infrastructure and nurture talents. 
Professor 
 Lawrence J. Lau expressed his gratitude to Microsoft Research Asia 
 for its diligent efforts and dedication devoted towards the establishment 
 of the joint laboratory. He looked forward a creative, innovative 
 and rewarding research journey between the University's Faculty 
 of Engineering and Microsoft Research Asia. 
The 
 essence of human-centric computing and interface technologies is 
 to enhance user-computer interaction by imitating the natural modalities 
 of human communication. The novel technologies endow the computer 
 with perceptual abilities to "see" the user, "hear" his or her speeches, 
 and "sense" his or her gestures and touch. On the other hand, the 
 computer can generate instant multimedia messages. Thus, computers 
 will become more user-friendly, more accessible, and more applicable 
 to our daily lives. 
Professor 
 Andrew Yao, Turing Award winner and Distinguished Professor-at-Large 
 of the Chinese University, will serve as Chairman of the International 
 Advisory Board of the joint laboratory. He said, "Human-centric 
 computing is considered by many as the great unfinished revolution 
 in information technology. The establishment of this joint laboratory 
 creates a unique opportunity for the immense talents residing in 
 the Chinese University and Microsoft Research Asia to work toward 
 making this grand vision a reality." 
Other 
 members of the advisory board include Professor Fred Juang, Motorola 
 Foundation Chair Professor and Georgia Research Alliance Eminent 
 Scholar, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia 
 Institute of Technology; and Professor Victor Zue, Professor of 
 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Co-Director, Computer 
 Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute 
 of Technology. Dr. Hsiao-Wuen Hon, Assistant Managing Director of 
 Microsoft Research Asia and Professor Peter Yum, Dean of Engineering 
 of the Chinese University, will serve as Managing Directors of the 
 joint laboratory. 
"Microsoft 
 Research Asia is delivering innovation that will impact the way 
 we live, learn, work and play for years to come. We are committed 
 to working with the leading universities in the region to advance 
 the state-of-the-art in computer science research and foster local 
 talents," commented Dr. Hsiao-Wuen Hon, "Today's announcement symbolizes 
 our continued efforts to strengthen existing university relations 
 and build new partnerships with academia in the region." 
About 
 Microsoft Research
 Founded in 1991, Microsoft Research is dedicated to conducting both 
 basic and applied research in computer science and software engineering. 
 Its goals are to enhance the user experience on computing devices, 
 reduce the cost of writing and maintaining software, and invent 
 novel computing technologies. Microsoft Research employs more than 
 700 people in six labs on three continents, focusing on more than 
 55 areas of computing. Researchers collaborate with leading academic, 
 government, and industry researchers to advance the state of the 
 art in such areas as graphics, speech recognition, user-interface 
 research, natural language processing, programming tools and methodologies, 
 operating systems and networking, and the mathematical sciences. 
 
About 
 the Faculty of Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 Founded in 1963, The Chinese University of Hong Kong is a forward-looking 
 comprehensive university. The Chinese University currently has an 
 enrolment of about 18,000 students. The Faculty of Engineering, 
 established in 1991, is one of the University's seven faculties. 
 It offers many undergraduate and postgraduate programs through its 
 five departments: Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering, Computer 
 Science and Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Information Engineering, 
 and Systems Engineering and Engineering Management. The Faculty 
 of Engineering has world-class teaching staff coming from prestigious 
 universities possessing extensive teaching experience and outstanding 
 research track records. It is also equipped with state-of-the-art 
 facilities to support teaching and research activities. The Faculty 
 has set out its mission to train future leaders in engineering, 
 to pursue knowledge at the frontier of modern technology, and to 
 apply advanced technology to meet societal and human needs. 

(From 
 left to right) Professor 
 Peter Yum, Dr Hsiao-Wuen Hon, Professor Lawrence Lau and Professor 
 Andrew Yao unveiled the plaque for the Joint Laboratory.
 Dr Hsiao-Wuen Hon (left) and Professor Lawrence Lau.

 
 



 
