[title]CUHK's Study on Entrepreneurship in the Hong Kong-Shenzhen Twin Cities[/title]

[date]9 January 2004[/date]


 CUHK's Study Recommends Education and RandD Reforms to Spur
 Entrepreneurship in the Hong Kong - Shenzhen Twin Cities 
 
Researchers from The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Faculty of 
 Business Administration and the Shenzhen Academy of Social Science in 
 a recent collaborative research project find that Hong Kong's low entrepreneurial 
 activity comes from poor education and training and insufficient transfer 
 of RandD from universities to the community.
Using 
 a measure called total entrepreneurship activity (TEA) which counts 
 the percent of adults in the population involved in starting new companies 
 over the last three years, the study shows that Hong Kong, with 3.2% 
 of the population involved in new start-ups, is among the least entrepreneurial 
 in the world and trails well behind China (11.6%) and our twin city 
 of Shenzhen (10.5%).
The 
 research is part of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), an international 
 consortium of some 150 researchers in more than 40 countries who periodically 
 poll entrepreneurship worldwide. In 2003 over 100,000 adults were polled 
 and over 1,200 experts were interviewed. The Hong Kong team is led by 
 Professor Bee-Leng Chua of the Department of Management and composed 
 of professors David Ahlstrom, Kevin Au, Siu-Tong Kwok, Chee-Keong Low, 
 Shige Makino, Hugh Thomas and Dr. Law Cheung Kwok in Hong Kong. The 
 Shenzhen team is led by Le Zheng, Director of the Shenzhen Academy of 
 Social Sciences, with team members Wang Weili, Dong Xiaoyuan, Yang Lixun 
 and Yin Qingxun. Researchers conducted 2,000 phone interviews each in 
 Hong Kong and Shenzhen and interviewed 47 experts.
Hong 
 Kong and Shenzhen are similar in some ways:
 
- Unlike the rest of China and other developing countries, where most 
 entrepreneurs are forced by necessity into starting businesses, in both 
 cities, people start companies mainly to seek opportunities, not out 
 of necessity.
 
- Most start-ups bring familiar products or services to market
 
- Frequent travelers to the adjacent cities are more likely to start 
 a business.
In Shenzhen, 
 the higher the education level, the more entrepreneurial the individual. 
 Postgraduate degree holders in Shenzhen are the most entrepreneurial. 
 But in Hong Kong, entrepreneurs are drawn mainly from matriculation 
 and first university degree holders. Here, more education beyond a first 
 degree reduces entrepreneurship.
The 
 report criticizes Hong Kong's education system for stifling creativity 
 and calls for an early reform of the curriculum. Experiential rather 
 than examination focused learning is needed. Researchers give high marks 
 to those corporations which have been working with schools to train 
 and mentor students and call for more such community efforts to help 
 our youth become more entrepreneurial. The report also criticizes the 
 lack of incentives to university professors to transfer their research 
 to new and growing companies and suggests several ways that these can 
 be improved.
Shenzhen 
 is a rapidly modernizing economy whose immigrant profile resembles that 
 of Hong Kong a quarter of a century ago. Now Shenzhen is facing the 
 challenge of a special economic zone that is no longer special in China. 
 To maintain its status as an entrepreneurial playground the report recommends 
 the Shenzhen government to be more open and service oriented, strengthening 
 property rights and reducing barriers to immigration into Shenzhen.
In the 
 long run, increasing links between Hong Kong and Shenzhen will help 
 building a more entrepreneurial society as the twin cities develop into 
 a 14 million population entrepreneurial powerhouse.
The 
 full "GEM Hong Kong-Shenzhen Country Report" will be released at a 
 forum titled "Enabling Entrepreneurship" to be held on Friday, 16 January 
 2004, in Rooms 603-4, the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
The 
 forum will address two critical factors contributing to Hong Kong's 
 poor level of entrepreneurship: education and training and the transfer 
 of research from universities to industry. The "GEM Hong Kong Country 
 Report" is supported by HK$1.605 million from the SME Development Fund 
 run by Hong Kong SAR Government's Trade and Industry Department, the 
 Hong Kong Management Association's Chinese Executives Club and The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong's Asia-Pacific Institute of Business.
The 
 GEM Global Report, "Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2003 Summary Report" 
 was released in London and Boston at noon, US Eastern Standard Time 
 and 5 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time on January 8, 2004). This year shows 
 a new line-up of the most entrepreneurial economies. They are: Uganda, 
 Venezuela, Argentina, Chile and New Zealand.
GEM 
 is a research project launched by leading scholars in 1999 to measure, 
 on an annual basis, entrepreneurship around the world. A good cross-section 
 of developed and developing countries are represented. 
Attachment: 
 Figures and tables
 

 
