[title]CUHK Launches Five-day Week on[/title]

[date]1 January 2007[/date]




 

 

 


19 December 2006
 CUHK Launches Five-day Week on 1 January 2007
 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong will adopt a five-day operation week starting on 1 January 2007, for a better work-life balance for its staff members while maintaining overall operational efficiency. The provision of essential services remains the same as before.
The introduction of the five-day week is put forward after a detailed study conducted by a Task Force headed by Prof Liu Pak Wai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor to examine the feasibility. The proposal is also welcomed by the staff associations/unions of the University. 
The University¡¦s usual operating hours will be re-defined from the current 5.5-day week pattern to:
 Monday to Thursday: 8:45 am to 1:00 pm and 2:00 pm to 5:30 pm 
 Friday: 8:45 am to 1:00 pm and 2:00 pm to 5:45 pm 
Almost 90% of departments/units will adopt the five-day operation pattern. Units providing emergency services, facilities and amenities currently available on Saturday afternoons and Sundays e.g. security and transport, maintenance service, hostels, library and museum will maintain their current pattern.
The University will maintain the existing 5.5-day teaching week for full-time Undergraduate Programmes with classes scheduled as far as practicable only for Mondays to Fridays. Postgraduate and self-financed programmes will however not be affected by the 5DW Operation. Clinical activities at the teaching hospital and research activities will also continue on Saturdays (and even Sundays) as appropriate. Major student service providers such as college offices, Office of Registry Services, Office of Admissions and Financial Aid, Graduate School Office, Office of Student Affairs, Information Technology Services Centre, and University Health Service should have skeleton staff on duty on Saturday mornings for a transitional period of at least six months and review about how to continue the services will be carried out after the transitional period. 

 
