[title]CUHK Architecture Dept Launches Pioneering Wind Environment Research[/title]

[date]14 September 2006[/date]


 CUHK Architecture Dept Launches Pioneering Wind Environment Research 
 - Asia¡¦s First Urban Climatic Map to emerge 
 Since SARS broke out in 2003, people¡¦s awareness of residential air ventilation has heightened and demand for better city ventilation has increased. 
 In the Team Clean Report released in August 2003 and the First Sustainable Development Strategy for Hong Kong promulgated by the Office of the Chief Secretary for Administration in May 2005, a strategic objective to promote sustainable urban planning and design practices has been set out with regard to issues such as city air flows. 
 In Oct 2003, the Planning Department of HKSARG commissioned CUHK to explore the feasibility of establishing an assessment standard and mechanism for improved air ventilation of the city due to development impact. A research team led by Professor Edward Ng Yan-yung, Department of Architecture, CUHK to conduct a Feasibility Study on the Establishment of Air Ventilation Assessment. The Study completed in June 2005 has been well-received by members of the profession and the academic community; it was also adopted and taken forward by HKSARG. 
Award-winning research to the benefit of the public 
 The recommendations put forward by the joint effort of CUHK research team and HKSAPG have resulted in a Technical Circular jointly issued by the Housing, Planning and Lands Bureau (HPLB) and the Environment, Transport and Works Bureau (ETWB). (www.etwb.gov.hk/utilmanager/tc/jtc-2006-01-0-1.pdf) Moreover, the design guidelines for improved air ventilation have also been incorporated into the Hong Kong Planning Standards and Guidelines (HKPSG) (www.pland.gov.hk/tech_doc/hkpsg/english/ch11/ch11_text.htm). 
 The Technical Circular and HKPSG will form the basis upon which HKSARG is committed to take the lead to apply air ventilation assessment to government projects and the air ventilation impact of further developments could be objectively examined. They will guide Hong Kong towards a better living environment. The Study is a case of scientific researching guiding actions towards a better future. 
 The Study received the Hong Kong Institute of Architects (HKIA) Research Award 2005, the inaugural Professional Green Building Council (PGBC) Grand Award 2006 Research and Planning Studies category, and the Best Paper Award of the International Association of Passive and Low Energy architecture (PLEA). 
Further funding awarded for Innovative research 
 The Air Ventilation research is original and the first of its kind in the world. Most countries have guidelines for gust wind problems but as Hong Kong has the opposite - weak city wind, a set of guidelines specially created for the territory will be most needed. With the implementation of the AVA technical circular and guidelines, countries and regions like Japan, Singapore and mainland China will make reference to the Hong Kong example for their own studies. 
 With the successful completion of the earlier Feasibility Study on Establishment of Air Ventilation Assessment, a further funding of HK 9 million was recently awarded to the research team led by Professor Edward Ng by the Planning Department of HKSARG for a new phase of the project for a further 3 years. 
 The project aims at: Firstly, creating an Urban Climatic Map of Hong Kong so that planning and developments of our city could be more sensitively located and guided through translating into a planning function map. Secondly, to conduct tests, surveys and field measurements in order to establish a wind and air ventilation standard for Hong Kong. The standard will establish a benchmark upon which future developments could be more objectively and precisely evaluated. 
 The research project is participated by experts from the USA, Germany, Japan, UK and Singapore, stakeholders of the industry, the Hong Kong Observatory, Environmental Protection Department, Housing Department, Building Department, Architectural Services Department and relevant guasi- government organizations. 
Hong Kong¡¦s Urban Climatic Map 
 The Urban Climatic map informs us of the prevailing conditions and characteristics of our city environment. The research team will gather climatic parameters like wind directions and speeds, solar radiation, air temperature and superimposed into our city topography, landscape, building bulks, and street grids, thus creating a unique urban climatic map of Hong Kong. 
 The urban climatic map could help identify streets of better ventilation, spots of better comfort, the problematic zones, and buildings which have negative effect on wind penetration. Such necessary information will provide a sound basis for town planners and designers to make planning decisions. 
 Climatic mapping provides planners a holistic point of view of the city. How development of one district will affect nearby districts will easily be revealed in the map. 
Ventilation Benchmark for better comfort 
 Hong Kong has hot and humid summers with an average temperature of around 28 degree C. Sea breezes which increase air ventilation will be conducive to a more comfortable living environment. 
 The research group will conduct an extensive survey throughout Hong Kong to research into the public¡¦s needs for wind in our city.
CUHK Architecture Department propels sustainable development 
 Professor Edward Ng believed that research findings of a University should be used to the benefit of the people. The Study is original and unprecedented in the world. Typically scientist looks at gust wind problems. But Hong Kong has weak wind issues. Given our unique high density living environment, we have to approach the issues fundamentally and from first principles. If successfully conducted, Hong Kong will lead the world in terms of urban weak wind studies and policies. The project will be internationally collaborated. Not only that the knowledge to be gained will be useful for Hong Kong, we are also taking the opportunity to establish an international focus group to advance the scholarship. Professor Ng said. 
 The Architecture Department of CUHK has strived to promote sustainable development, with a view to creating a better living environment for Hong Kong and the world. Besides actively engaging in innovative research, the Department has also invited experts from the world over to lecture in Hong Kong, and it¡¦s the only academic department in south Asia to offer the MSc in Environmental and Sustainable Design programme (www.sustain-cuhk.info). 

From left:
 Professor Edward Ng Yan-Yung, Professor, Department of Architecture, CUHK
 Professor Paul Lee Siu-Nam, Dean, Faculty of Social Science, CUHK
 Professor Essy Baniassad, Chairman, Department of Architecture, CUHK 

Professor Edward Ng Yan-Yung, Professor, Department of Architecture, CUHK 
 
 

 
