[title]Stop Further SARS Hospital Outbreaks Strict Infection Control Measures Called[/title]

[date]5 April 2003[/date]


Stop Further SARS Hospital Outbreaks
 Strict Infection Control Measures Called 
 
The School of Public Health of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 jointly with the Prince of Wales Hospital and the WHO, has been carrying 
 out surveillance on the SARS infection control among health care workers 
 who have been taking care of SARS patients in the PWH.
The investigation team 
 administered a questionaire survey to the 26 infected hospital workers 
 who had onset of symptoms on or after March 20, 2003. All of them had 
 worked in the SARS patient wards in the PWH.
Professor Joseph Lau Tak-Fai, 
 member of the investigation team and Director of the Centre for Epidemiology 
 and Biostatistics of the School of Public Health, pointed out that the 
 virus is highly infectious. Hospital workers in SARS patients' wards 
 have to implement every infection control measure strictly in order 
 to protect themselves and to stop further hospital outbreaks.
From March 12 on, the 
 PWH has adopted a "mask policy" and therefore, almost all 26 infected 
 workers had put on their mask in the ward almost all the time. Among 
 them, over 60% were too busy to carry out an adequate hand hygiene procedure 
 before and after contacting patients. About half of the infected hospital 
 workers, though putting their mask on almost all the time, may find 
 it stuffy and had adjusted their mask or touched their face without 
 firstly washing their hands.
Being overload with patient 
 care, some infected workers had some lax in the infection control procedure, 
 such as taking off their protective gown after washing their hands. 
 Another investigator, Professor of the Department of Community and Family 
 Medicine Wong Tse Wai, pointed out that ward workers have to use all 
 protective equipments, including protective mask, gloves, goggles, without 
 any lax, so that it will truely be protective. Adequate infection control 
 training for all staff before they work in these wards are the most 
 essential, especially for those seconded staff and non-medical and non-nursing 
 staff. Nebulizers should only be used with extreme caution. The investigators 
 also suggest that hospital workers in other hospitals should increase 
 their awareness and training to implement infection control measures 
 strictly. 

 
