[title]A Novel Cost-effective Strategy to Prevent Obesity-related Heart Disease[/title]

[date]27 April 2004[/date]


 A Novel Cost-effective Strategy to Prevent Obesity-related Heart 
 Disease 
Hypertension, 
 high blood fat, smoking, diabetes, stress and family history are all 
 known risk factors of cardiovascular disease. However, pioneering research 
 led by Professor Woo Kam-sang, Professor of Medicine and Therapeutics 
 and Professor Rita Sung, Professor of the Department of Paediatrics 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong showed that, for normal adults 
 and children who have no clinical pathological problems, obesity alone 
 may cause great damage to cardiovascular function.
The 
 research has aroused the attention of medical professionals worldwide 
 and was widely discussed this April when several prestigious medical 
 journals reported the study results.
In the 
 April's issue Arteriosclerosis Thrombosis and Vascular Biology, 
 published by the American Heart Association, Professor Woo found that 
 in 228 healthy subjects who have neither heart disease or diabetes but 
 with "high normal" glycemia levels (or with a number of components of 
 metabolic syndrome), carotid intima-media thickening, an important marker 
 for arteriosclerosis, was observed. Usually, the glycemia levels of 
 obese children at the time when they grow up will fall in this "high 
 normal" range or even higher. Hence, the study documented important 
 evidence for preventing cardiovascular disease at the early stage.
Professor 
 Woo and Professor Sung stated in an article titled "Overweight in children 
 is associated with arterial endothelial dysfunction and intima-media 
 thickening" in International Journal of Obesity that overweight, 
 even of mild to moderate degree, in otherwise healthy children is independently 
 associated with the development of vascular abnormalities. Yet, we are 
 able to prevent or reverse the occurrence of cardiovascular disease 
 at an early stage. In another article in top heart journal Circulation 
 also published by the American Heart Association, the two professors 
 reported that the abnormal arterial function and structure in obese 
 children could be readily reversed through sustained changes in diet 
 and regular exercise.
Earlier, 
 a survey by The Chinese University of Hong Kong using a completely new 
 set of standards found that the prevalence of obesity in children is 
 increasing rapidly from the age of six. The overall prevalence is 10.1% 
 (female 8.9%, male 11.3%). Rising obesity in children and youth has 
 become an extremely serious problem to the local community.
"Endothelial 
 vasodilator dysfunction and carotid intima-media thickening are the 
 early markers of arteriosclerosis," explained Professor Woo. "In adult 
 obesity, there are many other risk factors such as hypertension and 
 abnormality in lipids metabolism, it is very difficult to delineate 
 the direct effect of obesity to vascular changes. However, it may be 
 easier in children when we can avoid the interference of other risk 
 factors and more precisely isolate the effect of obesity."
A multi-disciplinary 
 team with scientists, dietitians, physiotherapists and medical professionals 
 from the Departments of Medicine and Therapeutics, Paediatrics, Chemical 
 Pathology, and Diagnostic Radiology and Organ Imaging of CUHK and the 
 Prince of Wales Hospital were formed to examine the relationship between 
 obesity and early atherosclerosis in children. With high-resolution 
 ultrasound, specially trained researchers examined 82 obese and 58 normal 
 weight children aged 7-12 years. "It was discovered that the endothelial 
 function of obese children are impaired by 30% compared with normal 
 children, and such abnormalities are similar to those found in middle-aged 
 smokers who are over 40 years old and have smoked cigarettes for over 
 10 years," Professor Woo and Professor Sung reported. "Fortunately, 
 the vascular function of these children was found significantly improved 
 after a short intervention programme of dietary modification and guided 
 exercise for six weeks. The follow-up after a year showed that children 
 with sustained controlled diet and regular exercise in the past year 
 thrived better in cholesterol and fasting glucose levels, endothelial 
 function and carotid intima-media measurement, than those with dietary 
 change alone and those who stopped regular exercise."
"To 
 date, there are few similar studies documenting such accelerated atherogenesis 
 in obese children so far, and this innovative project by CUHK clearly 
 indicates that overweight or obesity in children may cause various impairment 
 of endothelial function." Professor Woo elaborated. "This may lead to 
 cardiovascular disease or other metabolic diseases when the child grows 
 up. Hence, preventing and controlling obesity through dietary modification 
 and regular exercise, especially in childhood, is the most cost-effective 
 strategy to prevent cardiovascular disease."
Professor 
 Woo stressed the worldwide recognition achieved by this pioneering project 
 is the result of the joint effort by researchers from different departments, 
 pooling together resources and utilizing high technologies. This research 
 project was sponsored by the Research Grant Council of Hong Kong and 
 The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charity Trust (via The Hong Kong Institute 
 of Heart Health Promotion) and is one of the key research activities 
 of the Centre for Atherosclerosis Studies of CUHK. The study provides 
 valuable information and guidance and will have a great implication 
 in public health promotion against atherosclerosis. 
 

 
