[title]CUHK Admitted 40% of HKALE Candidates with 3As and Above[/title]

[date]31 July 2006[/date]


 CUHK Admitted 40% of HKALE Candidates with 3As and Above
 In 2006-07, The Chinese University of Hong Kong has made a total of 2,367 admission offers via the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS). Among them, 2,319 are Band A applicants, accounting for 98% of the total number admitted. The programmes with the best admission results include Professional Accountancy, Translation, Journalism and Communication, Music, Global Business Studies, Medical Studies, Quantitative Finance, Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis and Risk Management Science (see tables below).
One of the two current year HKALE candidates who obtained 6As, Yam Shu Jun from Hang Seng School of Commerce, is admitted to the Professional Accountancy Programme. The Gold Award recipient of 2005 and 2006 International Mathematical Olympiad, Tsoi Yun Pui from Sha Tin Government Secondary School, is admitted to the Mathematics Programme. In order to fulfill his aspiration in becoming a Mathematics student at CUHK, he gave up the opportunity of admission via the Early Admissions Scheme last year. Apart from the aforesaid outstanding applicants, about 40% HKALE candidates with 3As or above are admitted to CUHK in 2006-2007.
CUHK has awarded bonus points or conditional offers to 288 JUPAS applicants under the School Principal¡¦s Nomination Scheme. 85 applicants with distinguished achievements in non-academic performance including sports and cultural activities and community services; and those with demonstrable leadership potentials are admitted under the said Scheme. Such outstanding admittees include the Champion of the International Triathlon Tournament (Youth Section), Champion of Hong Kong Interschool Basketball Marathon Tournament, several recipients of the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Prize, and awardees in regional competitions. Under the Self-recommendation Scheme, 82 applicants have been awarded bonus points and 48 applicants are subsequently admitted. 
 Table 1
Top 5 Programmes Based on The Median Results of All Applicants Admitted
Programme/Stream
Global Business Studies
Medical Studies
Quantitative Finance
Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis
Risk Management Science 


 
 
Table 2
Top 5 Programmes Based on The Results of The Best Applicant Admitted
Programme/Stream
Professional Accountancy
Translation 
Journalism and Communication
Music
Global Business Studies


 
 
Office of Admissions and Financial Aid
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong
 


 
