[title]'CUHK' HKQoL Index Reveals the Continuous Improvement of Hong Kong Quality of Life[/title]

[date]28 June 2005[/date]


'CUHK' 
 Hong Kong Quality of Life Index Reveals 
 the Continuous Improvement of Hong Kong Quality of Life 
 
The 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index, which is compiled 
 by the Faculty of Social Science of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong, shows that the quality of life in Hong Kong has improved continuously 
 in the last two years. 
In 
 2003, the Faculty of Social Science designed the 'CUHK' Hong 
 Kong Quality of Life Index. It is the intention of the Faculty 
 to use this composite index to measure and keep track of Hong Kong 
 quality of life in the 21st century, and provide policy makers and 
 the community with a useful reference tool. It also aims to advocate 
 the quality of life in Hong Kong and draw public attention to this 
 issue. Starting from the year of 2003, the Index is released annually. 
 
The 
 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index consists of 21 indicators 
 that are grouped into three sub-indices (see Appendix 1). The indicators 
 are selected according to the coverage, measurability, representativeness, 
 and importance to the quality of life in Hong Kong. 
Taking 
 the year of 2002 as the base year of the study, the 'CUHK' Hong 
 Kong Quality of Life Index of 2002 is 100. If the Index of a 
 year is above 100, it means that the quality of life in Hong Kong 
 in that year is better than that in 2002. If it is below 100, it 
 reveals that the quality of life in Hong Kong in that year is worse 
 than that in 2002. If the Index is 100, it indicates that the Hong 
 Kong quality of life in that year is the same as that in 2002. 
According 
 to the 'CUHK' Hong Kong Quality of Life Index released this 
 year, the preliminary score of the Index of 2004 is 107.53. It is 
 higher than the scores of 2003 (104.31) and 2002 (100), indicating 
 that the quality of life in Hong Kong has improved consistently. 
 
The 
 socio-cultural and economic sub-indices increased continuously from 
 2002 to 2004, while the environmental sub-index declined slightly 
 in 2004. 
As 
 compared with last year, 12 of the 21 indicators improved in 2004. 
 The stress index, the overall crime rate and the unemployment rate 
 declined in this year. The life expectancy at birth, the press criticism 
 index, the index of current economic conditions and the public expenditure 
 on education as a proportion of the GDP were higher in 2004. The 
 Hong Kong people were more satisfied with their lives, and their 
 satisfaction with the performance of the HKSAR Government drastically 
 increased. With regard to the environment, the water quality and 
 the recycle rate of municipal solid waste were better than that 
 in the previous year. Although the air index improved in this year, 
 the increase was minimal, indicating that the air quality did not 
 improve significantly. 
Seven 
 indicators were worse in this year. The notification rate of notifiable 
 infectious disease increased slightly. The press freedom index declined. 
 This might be because the press freedom opinion survey was conducted 
 in August last year, when at that time respondents were influenced 
 by the debate on patriotism and thereby lost confidence in the press 
 freedom in Hong Kong. In addition, the recent economic recovery 
 attracted more graduates to the labour market, leading to the decline 
 of the age participation rate for first-degree programmes and post-graduate 
 programmes in local universities. While the local economy began 
 to recover, the rental index increased, and the housing affordability 
 ratio and the real wage index dropped. There was more noise pollution 
 in 2004. 
In 
 sum, as compared with 2003, 12 indicators were better and seven 
 were worse in 2004, while the standardized mortality rate and the 
 public expenditure on health as a proportion of the GDP remained 
 unchanged. 
Appendix 1-3
 
 
From left:
 Professor Catherine S K Tang, Professor, Department of Psychology, 
 CUHK
 Professor Chan Ying Keung, Professor, Department of Sociology, CUHK
 Professor Paul S N Lee, Director and Professor, School of Journalism 
 and Communication, CUHK
 Professor Andy C C Kwan, Associate Professor, Department of Economics, 
 CUHK
 Professor Ng Sai Leung, Associate Professor, Department of Geography 
 and Resource Management, CUHK
 



 
