[title]First Chinese Turing Award Winner Joined CUHK As Distinguished Professor-at-Large[/title]

[date]20 January 2005[/date]


 First Chinese Turing Award Winner Joined the Chinese University 
 
 As Distinguished Professor-at-Large 
 
Professor Andrew Chi-chih Yao, world-renowned computer scientist 
 and the first Chinese scientist to receive the prestigious Turing 
 Award of the Association for Computing Machinery, the highest honour 
 in computer science, has joined The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 as Distinguished Professor-at-Large.
The 
 prestigeous Turing Award is presented annually by the Association 
 for Computing Machinery (ACM) to a selected individual whose contributions 
 are of lasting and major technical importance to the computer field 
 and have propelled the information technology industry. The award, 
 named after Alan M. Turing, the British mathematician considered to 
 be one of the fathers of modern computer science, is regarded as the 
 Nobel Prize of computer science. As a winner of the Award, Professor 
 Yao's profound contributions to the advancement of computer science 
 and technology is widely recognized worldwide.
Professor 
 Yao was born in Shanghai, China. He completed his undergraduate education 
 in physics at Taiwan University and furthered his studies at Harvard 
 University. After he was awarded a PhD degree in physics from Harvard 
 University in 1972, he decided to switch to computer science, foreseeing 
 the unprecedented changes that computer science would bring to the 
 global community. In 1975, he received his second PhD, in computer 
 science, from the University of Illinois. After teaching and researching 
 at MIT (1975-1976), Stanford University (1976-1981, 1982-1986) and 
 UC Berkeley (1981-1982), he joined Princeton University in 1986 as 
 the William and Edna Macaleer Professor of Engineering and Applied 
 Science. In 2004, he became a Professor of Computer Science at Tsinghua 
 Univeristy in Beijing.
Professor 
 Yao was awarded the Turing Award in 2000, "in recognition of his fundamental 
 contributions to the theory of computation, including the complexity-based 
 theory of pseudorandom number generation, cryptography, and communication 
 complexity". His research activities are in the design of efficient 
 computer algorithms, and complexity theories in emerging new areas 
 of theoretical computer science, such as quantum communication and 
 computing. A prolific scientist, Professor Yao has published over 
 100 articles in these areas and brought ground-breaking developments 
 to computer science.
A 
 world-leading computer scientist, Professor Yao has received numerous 
 honours and awards. Before the Turing Award, he had won two prestigious 
 awards: the George Polya Prize and the first Donald E. Knuth Prize. 
 He received an Honorary Doctor of Science degree from City University 
 of Hong Kong in 2003, and an Honorary Doctor of Engineering degree 
 from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 2004. Professor 
 Yao is a member of the US Academy of Sciences, a Fellow of the American 
 Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of Academia Sinica in Taipei. 
 He was recently elected a foreign fellow of the Chinese Academy of 
 Sciences.
The 
 Distinguished Professor-at-Large is a specially created chair with 
 university-wide responsibilities. Currently three world-class masters 
 have joined as Distinguished Professor-at-Large. They are Professor 
 Yang Chen Ning, the first Chinese Nobel Laureate, Professor Sir James 
 A Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economics 1996, and Professor Yau Shing 
 Tung, Director of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences of CUHK and 
 the only Chinese Fields Medallist. They have made remarkable contributions 
 to the University in providing quality education and strengthening 
 the relation between Hong Kong and the international scholarly community. 
 

Professor 
 Andrew Chi-chih Yao
 
 


 
