[title]CEO of the Swiss Bankers Association lectured at CUHK


 

 

 [/title]

[date]22 November 2006[/date]

 
CEO of the Swiss Bankers Association Lectured at Chinese University 
Dr. Urs P. Roth, Chief Executive Officer of the Swiss Bankers Association gave a lecture on Swiss Banking: Know-How + Innovation = Success today at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. In his presentation, Dr. Roth gave a sketch of the Swiss banking industry as it stands today and examined some of the factors behind Switzerland¡¦s success as a leading international financial centre. Special attention was given to the vast body of professional know-how Swiss bankers have accumulated over the years, with emphasis given to their ability to create innovative financial products and keep up with their clients¡¦ ever-changing requirements. The most valuable asset a bank has is its reputation, and protecting the integrity of Switzerland¡¦s financial system from being abused by criminal elements is a top priority of Swiss bankers. Dr. Roth explained how Swiss banks fight crimes such as money-laundering and the financing of terrorism while at the same time protecting the privacy of innocent bank clients.
Dr. Urs P. Roth was born in 1947. After finishing his law studies with a doctorate in Zurich and qualifying as an attorney-at-law, Dr. Roth joined UBS in 1976 and worked until February 2001 in Zurich as UBS AG¡¦s Group General Counsel. As such he was responsible for advising UBS AG globally on legal and compliance issues.
Dr. Roth has served for many years on various commissions and working groups of the Swiss Bankers Association. He has also written numerous academic papers on banking and stock exchange law. Since its establishment in 2005 Dr. Roth has been a member of the Foundation Board of the Swiss Finance Institute, a joint initiative of the Swiss Financial Services Industry, the Federal Government and leading Swiss Universities, to promote research and executive education in finance and banking.

 
 
 
 

 
