[title]CUHK Performs Territory's First Cervical Artificial Disc System Implantation[/title]

[date]16 December 2004[/date]


 The Chinese University of Hong Kong Performs
 Territory's First Cervical Artificial Disc System Implantation 
 
The Division of Neurosurgery of the Department of Surgery of The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong has successfully performed an implantation 
 of a cervical artificial disc system for a 33-year-old patient suffering 
 from symptoms of nerve root and spinal cord compression caused by 
 the damaged disc disease. The implanted artificial disc is expected 
 to reduce neighboring disc degeneration in the long run, which the 
 does not apply to the conventional fusion procedure. The surgery, 
 the first case done in Hong Kong, marks the milestone in Hong Kong 
 cervical spine operation history.
Cervical 
 disc disease is usually associated with degenerative problems. The 
 discs lose their water content and shock absorption property with 
 aging. When a disc ruptures in the cervical spine, it puts pressure 
 on one or more nerve roots or on the spinal cord, thus causing pain 
 and other symptoms in the neck and arms. Since diagnostic techniques 
 are becoming more available, an increasing number of patients are 
 found with cervical spondylosis at the early age. 30 to 40% of the 
 Hong Kong population above the age of 40 have cervical spondylosis. 
 The symptoms associated include neck and arm pain, limb weakness, 
 walking difficulty and urine incontinence. If the patient does not 
 take an immediate treatment, it will reduce the chance of recovery 
 because of the long-term spinal cord or nerve compression. Severe 
 cases require operation.
The 
 conventional spinal fusion procedure, in which a bone graft (harvested 
 from patient's own pelvic bone) is placed between vertebrae, aims 
 to unite the adjacent vertebral bodies after several months of healing. 
 Fusion has been the traditional operation to alleviate neck and arm 
 pain, a concept which is similar to that used in the welding in industry. 
 However, since the fusion procedure reduces the seven supporting columns 
 in the spine to six, the physical stress on each column increases 
 and therefore accelerates disc degeneration elsewhere in the neck. 
 Unlike the rigid fixation of the fusion procedure, the artificial 
 disc features a shock-absorbing cushion. The disc consists of a flexible 
 centre sandwiched between 2 small, shell-shaped metal caps and is 
 surrounded by a protective sheath. It thus allows for motion at the 
 operated disc level and therefore reduces neighboring disc degeneration 
 as occurs following the fusion operation.
The 
 cervical artificial disc operation performed on 25th November 2004 
 and lasted for two hours. It started with general anesthesia, which 
 allowed the patient to undergo the surgery without experiencing pain 
 and awareness. After the removal of damaged disc through an incision 
 made in front of the neck, the surgeons implanted the artificial disc 
 system, which provided motion and elasticity to restore the function 
 of a normal intervertebral disc. The patient who undergone this surgery 
 was discharged from hospital the next day after operation. She is 
 now under speedy recovery.
More 
 than 500 artificial discs were implanted across Europe in the past 
 2 years without any rejection case reported. The Prince of Wales Hospital 
 is the first hospital in Hong Kong to have performed this surgery. 
 While the number of adequately trained spine surgeons increases, it 
 is expected that cervical artificial disc system operation will become 
 a common treatment in the near future. 



 
