[title]Consul-General of the Republic of Korea Lectured at CUHK


 

 

 [/title]

[date]14 November 2006[/date]


Consul-General of the Republic of Korea Lectured at CUHK
 Mr. Cho Whan Bok, Consul-General of the Republic of Korea in Hong Kong and Macau gave a lecture on For a Permanent Peace on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia: Beyond the Nuclear Challenge and the Cold War today at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). During the lecture, Mr. Cho examined the North Korean nuclear issue which has drawn considerable attention in the international community. The Six Party Talks has made important progress in addressing the issue. However, high hopes were diminished with the unexpected turn of events beginning with the U.S. financial measures against the Banco Delta Asia of Macau. With the launch of the North Korean missiles and its nuclear test in July and October respectively, the nuclear issue could be headed for a prolonged stalemate or even a full-brown crisis. The present situation, while seemingly deadlocked, should instead be seen as a crucial juncture in Northeast Asia¡¦s movement toward peace.
Mr. Cho Whan Bok is the Consul-General of the Republic of Korea in Hong Kong and Macau. His foreign service career spans more than 31 years and has been posted in such a diverse countries as Switzerland, Bolivia, France, Mexico, Kenya, Canada and China. He served as the Director-General for the International Economic Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Korea and Minister at the Korean Embassy in Beijing. He studied in Seoul National University and European Institute at the Amsterdam University. He has represented Korea in numerous international negotiations, in particular, in the areas of trade, environment and development issues.
With a view to broadening students¡¦ horizon and enriching their exposures, CUHK has been organizing the Consuls-General / diplomats lecture series since last year. A number of famous diplomats, including the Consuls-General of the USA, UK, Japan, and France, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to PRC, and the Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC in Hong Kong have delivered lectures on CUHK campus. 





 
View Past Lectures

 
