[title]Northbound Pleasures: Pattern of Cross-Boundary Drug Use of Hong Kong Marginal Youths[/title]

[date]29 April 2004[/date]


 Northbound Pleasures:
 Pattern of Cross-Boundary Drug Use of Hong Kong Marginal Youths 
Background 
 of Study
Funded 
 by the Research Grants Council of the University Grants Committee, the 
 Department of Sociology and Department of Psychology of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong, and the Department of Social Work and Social 
 Administration of The University of Hong Kong, in collaboration with 
 five social service agencies (including Hong Kong Children and Youth 
 Services, North District Outreaching Social Work Team of Evangelical 
 Lutheran Church of Hong Kong, Boys' and Girls' Club Association of Hong 
 Kong, Hong Kong Lutheran Social Services, and the Society for the Aid 
 and Rehabilitation of Drug Abusers) have conducted a study to examine 
 the pattern of cross-boundary (Shenzhen) drug use of Hong Kong marginal 
 youths, and the associated social and psychological factors of this 
 pattern.
 Methodology 
 and Sample
The 
 research design of the study was sample survey through face-to-face 
 interviews with respondents using a standardized questionnaire. The 
 sampling frame was composed of the lists of youths aged between 14 and 
 19 from nine institutions of the Correctional Services Department, four 
 boys' and girls' homes of the Social Welfare Department, and the aforementioned 
 five collaborating agencies. Data collection was carried out in November 
 2002 and ended in March 2003, just before the outbreak of SARS in Hong 
 Kong. 504 marginal youths were successfully interviewed. It is believed 
 that several months after the SARS outbreak, Hong Kong marginal youths' 
 drug abuse in Shenzhen had gradually resumed to the pattern prior to 
 the SARS outbreak.
Among 
 the 504 respondents, 76% were male and 24% female. The mean age was 
 16.9 years. One-third (33%) of the respondents were having licit employments, 
 11% were involved in illicit jobs, and the remaining 56% were either 
 still in school or unemployed.
 Marginal 
 Youths' Pattern of Drug Use in Shenzhen
In the 
 12 months prior to the interview, 72% of the respondents (362) had taken 
 drugs in Hong Kong, and 44% (219) had used drugs in Shenzhen. One-fifth 
 (20%) of the respondents had not taken any drugs in the past 12 months. 
 
Among 
 those who had taken drugs, 46% (183) had used drugs in Hong Kong only, 
 44% (179) had used drugs in both Hong Kong and Shenzhen, and 10% (40) 
 had used drugs in Shenzhen only.
Among 
 those who had taken drugs in Shenzhen (219), 80% were male whereas 20% 
 were female. This sex ratio is similar to that of the whole sample.
Among 
 those who had taken drugs in Shenzhen, 75% had used drugs occasionally 
 (not more than three times a month), and 25% had used drugs once to 
 six times a week. No respondents had used drugs on a daily basis.
Among 
 those who had used drugs in Shenzhen, almost all of them (98%) consumed 
 drugs at discos, and 25% also took drugs in hotels/inns, 13% in Karaoke 
 lounges, and 11% in pubs.
The 
 three most popular drugs consumed in discos in Shenzhen were ketamine 
 (consumed by 89% of respondents who had used drugs in Shenzhen's discos), 
 "ecstasy" (88%), and cannabis (54%). These were also the most popular 
 drugs consumed by marginal youths in discos in Hong Kong. 
Effects 
 of Drug Use in Shenzhen on Frequency of Drug Use in Hong Kong
Among 
 those who had taken drugs in Shenzhen (176), over two-thirds (68%) reported 
 that their frequencies of drug use in Hong Kong had not been affected 
 by their drug use in Shenzhen. Less than one-third (30%) reported that 
 they had reduced their frequencies of, or even stopped, drug use in 
 Hong Kong after they had consumed drugs in Shenzhen. Only 2% had increased 
 their drug use in Hong Kong after drug use in Shenzhen.
 Drug 
 Use in Shenzhen in relation to Residential Location and Employment Status
Residential 
 location seems related to drug use in Shenzhen. Among respondents who 
 had used drugs in Shenzhen (219), about 80% lived in northern districts 
 or along the railway such as Yuen Long, Shatin, Tai Po, Fan Ling, and 
 Sheung Shui. Among those who only used drugs in Hong Kong (183), only 
 one-quarter lived in these towns. Marginal youths living in areas close 
 to Shenzhen or near the railway are more likely to have used drugs in 
 Shenzhen. 
Regarding 
 employment status, among those who had used drugs in Shenzhen (213), 
 one-quarter (25%) were students, 41% "out of school and out of work," 
 and one-third (33%) working (among them, about 70% were having licit 
 employments and 30% were taking up illicit jobs). Among those who had 
 used drugs in Hong Kong only (179), only 19% were students and 24% were 
 both out of school and out of work. The proportion of working respondents 
 was 58% (among them, also about 70% were having licit employments and 
 30% taking up illicit jobs). Thus, it seems that marginal youths who 
 were still in school or who were out of school but unemployed were more 
 likely to go to Shenzhen for drug use.
 Attraction 
 of Drug Use in Shenzhen
Respondents 
 who had used drugs in Shenzhen or Hong Kong tended to agree that the 
 advantages of Shenzhen over Hong Kong as a venue for drug use included 
 "lower probability of arrest," "greater availability of illicit drugs," 
 "larger discos and better atmosphere," "cheaper and larger variety of 
 drugs," and "feeling more relaxed outside Hong Kong."
Compared 
 with those who had used drugs in Hong Kong only, those who took drugs 
 in both Hong Kong and Shenzhen were more likely to believe that "the 
 risk of being arrested for drug use in Shenzhen was lower", "availability 
 of illicit drugs in Shenzhen was greater" and "discos in Shenzhen were 
 larger and having better atmosphere.
 Social 
 and Psychological Factors Affecting Marginal Youths' Drug Use in Hong 
 Kong or Shenzhen
Regardless 
 of whether drugs were used in Hong Kong or Shenzhen, the most significant 
 factor that affected drug use among marginal youths was "association 
 with drug-using friends." The more drug-using friends a marginal youth 
 has, the higher is his/her drug use frequency. Other factors in drug 
 use included "insufficient family support and supervision," "poor past 
 or present (if still in school) school performance," "low self-esteem," 
 and "past trouble with law." 
Concluding 
 Remarks
To recap, 
 the major findings of the study are as follows:
 - Drug use in Shenzhen is still quite popular among Hong Kong marginal 
 youths (about 40% of the respondents in the study had used drugs in Shenzhen). 
 However, the majority of them were using drugs infrequently in Shenzhen. 
 
 - In Shenzhen, the most popular venue of drug use was the disco. This 
 suggests that Hong Kong marginal youths went to Shenzhen for group recreational 
 purposes. 
 - The most popular drugs consumed by Hong Kong marginal youths in Shenzhen 
 discos were ketamine, ecstasy, and cannabis. 
 - The majority of marginal youths who used drugs in Shenzhen reported 
 that their drug use in Shenzhen did not result in any increase of drug 
 use in Hong Kong.
- 
 Due to easy transportation, marginal youths living in towns in northern 
 districts and along the railway were more likely to travel to Shenzhen 
 for drug use.
 - Drug use in Shenzhen seems to be more popular among marginal youths 
 who were students or who were out of school without a job.
 - Marginal youths who had used drugs generally agreed that there were 
 certain situational advantages of using drugs in Shenzhen. These included 
 a lower probability of arrest, greater availability and variety of illicit 
 drugs, and larger discos.
 - Among marginal youths who had used drugs, family support and supervision, 
 improvement of school performance (if still in school), staying away from 
 drug using friends, raising of self-esteem, and avoiding trouble with 
 law were protective factors that could reduce, or even stop, their drug 
 use in Hong Kong or Shenzhen.
More 
 resources should be allocated to the creation of employment opportunities 
 for marginal youths who have left school, the strengthening of family 
 and school support/supervision for them, helping them to stay away from 
 drug-using friends, and raising their self-esteem. 
 

 
