[title]CUHK's BA Faculty Proposes Ways to Raise The Cost Competitiveness of Hong Kong Businesses[/title]

[date]2 December 2004[/date]


 New hope for advanced stage nasopharynx cancer patients:
 Molecular Targeting and Intensity-modulated radiotherapy 
 
Targeting patients with advanced stage Nasopharynx cancer, the Department 
 of Clinical Oncology at The Chinese University of Hong Kong has successfully 
 pioneered the technique of Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) 
 to increase local control rate, as well as applying a novel approach 
 of molecular targeting to the clinical setting. The results of these 
 landmark studies have recently been published in two major international 
 journals.
Conventional 
 radiotherapy can achieve a local control rate of around 60 % in NPC 
 patients with locally advanced disease. For the last 5 years the radiation 
 oncology team in the Prince of Wales Hospital has developed the use 
 of IMRT in an attempt to improve local control in patients with advanced 
 disease. Dr Kwan Wing Hong, Honorary Clinical Associate Professor 
 of the Department of Clinical Oncology, commented that "we reached 
 a plateau after 2 decades of refining the conventional radiotherapy 
 techniques, and a new standard has now been set using IMRT".
Dr 
 Michael Kam, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor of the Department 
 of Clinical Oncology, who has spear-headed the development of the 
 technology of IMRT, has reported on the excellent results of the largest 
 Asian series of advanced NPC patients treated with IMRT in the December 
 issue of the International Journal of Radiation Oncology, Biology 
 and Physics, achieving a 3 year local control rate of 88% in patients 
 with locally advanced disease. "This technique is labour-intensive 
 for the doctors and physicists involved, but the hard work is worthwhile 
 since previously incurable cases can now be satisfactorily treated", 
 said Dr Kam.
With 
 the ground-breaking clinical studies conducted at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong developing combined chemotherapy-radiotherapy treatment, 
 survival rates of NPC patients with locoregionally advanced disease 
 have significantly improved. However, with about 30% of patients failing 
 with distant metastases, novel approaches are still very much needed.
Professor 
 Anthony Chan, Director of the Hong Kong Cancer Institute and Chairman 
 of the Department of Clinical Oncology at The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong, and Professor Qian Tao, Head of the Cancer Epigenetics 
 and Tumour Virology Laboratory in the Sir YK Pao Centre for Cancer, 
 have successfully demonstrated for the first time in a group of NPC 
 patients who have failed standard therapies, that demethylation of 
 the EBV genome can be achieved using Azacytidine, a study published 
 in the Journal of Clinical Oncology with a leading editorial describing 
 the work as "a model for future trials in solid tumors".
"At 
 the Hong Kong Cancer Institute and the Department of Clinical Oncology 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, we are committed to bringing 
 novel therapeutic strategies and new hope to cancer patients in Hong 
 Kong," said Professor Chan. 



 
