[title]CUHK's EMBA Among Top 15 Schools Worldwide[/title]

[date]24 October 2005[/date]


 CUHK' s EMBA Among Top 15 Schools Worldwide 
 No. 1 Independent EMBA in Asia-Pacific Again 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong¡¦s Executive MBA Programme has announced that it has scored another success in the Financial Times 2005 ranking of EMBA programme, released today. 
In its latest global survey of over 90 EMBA Programmes worldwide, the London-based Financial Times ranked CUHK¡¦s EMBA Programme No. 15 in 2005. 
We are very pleased to note this result. Ours is the first EMBA Programme in Hong Kong, and a truly made-in-Hong Kong product. The Programme¡¦s success is, therefore, Hong Kong¡¦s success, Professor Andrew C.F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme, said. In addition, we owe the result to the support of our University management and the dedication and hard work of all our faculty members, staff, students and alumni.
Of note, of all the independent programmes in the Asia-Pacific, CUHK¡¦s EMBA Programme has been ranked top in 2003-05, for the last three consecutive years; among all independent programmes in Asia, it has been ranked top from 2001-05, for five consecutive years.
In terms of percentage of international faculty and women students, the Programme was ranked among the Top 10 Schools around the globe. It scored high in such areas as salary increase, women students, women faculty, women advisory board and international advisory board.
CUHK¡¦s EMBA Programme is distinguished not only as a uniquely Hong Kong programme, but also one of three business schools in the top 15 where the medium of teaching is bilingual (the others are Instituto de Empress in Spain and Ceibs in the mainland). 
As always, ranking is not our foremost pursuit, Prof Chan said, What is important is maintaining our ability to nurture world-class management talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the region.
We will continue with our tradition of keeping a good balance between theory and application, and continue to innovate to make sure that we keep pace with the dynamics of the market place. We have, since 2002, enriched our programme considerably by providing more opportunities for students and alumni to share insights from business leaders. As such we have organized with RTHK, ATV and Cable TV the popular Talking to CEOs: CEO in the New Century series, and the New Thinking in Management live programme currently aired every Sunday afternoon on RTHK¡¦s Radio One. For reaching a broader spectrum of audience and readers, the content of these programmes as well as that of our EMBA Forum, Conference, Seminars, etc. were published and produced regularly in the format of books, DVDs and newspapers such as Hong Kong Economic Journal and Hong Kong Economic Times, he added. 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong¡¦s Independent EMBA Programme was ranked no. 1 in Asia by both Financial Times and BusinessWeek in 2001, and again by Financial Times in 2002-2005. It was also granted The Best EMBA Educational Organization Award by the SmartFortune Magazine in 2004. Its MBA Programmes also received top ranking by Asia Inc. in 2002-2004. 


 
