[title]CUHK Survey Shows Students and Professionals Pessimistic and Worried about SARS[/title]

[date]19 May 2003[/date]


Chinese University Survey Shows Students and Professionals
Pessimistic and Worried about SARS
 
A recently completed survey of university students and professionals 
 by The Chinese University of Hong Kong has revealed that an overwhelming 
 majority regard SARS as Hong Kong's leading threat in the coming year. 
 They are considerably more pessimistic about the chance of personal 
 infection and fatality than are supported by actual statistics or estimates 
 given by the WHO. 
However, most respondents 
 believe that Hong Kong has the capability of dealing with this epidemic, 
 and approve of the mandatory measures implemented by government. 
The survey, led by Professor 
 Jia Jian Min of the Department of Marketing of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong, was conducted at the end of April, and mid-May, 2003 and 
 covered 155 university students and 55 professionals in various industry 
 sectors. 
The key findings are: 
 
a) 93 per cent of the respondents 
 name SARS as the Number 1 threat to Hong Kong citizens in the coming year, 
 ahead of the bird flu, lung cancer, pneumonia, AIDS and nuclear radiation. 
 
b) Their estimated probability 
 of infection by the general population is 11 per cent, personal infection 
 eight per cent, and survival rate only 80 per cent. Their perceived 
 survival rate is significantly lower than the publicized WHO estimates 
 of 85-86 percent, and 99 per cent for those under age 24. 40 per cent 
 of the respondents have, at some point, imagined that they have contracted 
 SARS. 
c) This over-pessimistic 
 attitude is due to inadequate understanding of the cause of SARS, uncertainty 
 about the consequence of infection, the fact that no effective cure 
 has been found, the highly infectious nature of the virus and wide media 
 coverage. 
d) Of the twenty factors 
 which affect respondents' assessment of the risk arising from SARS, 
 the top factors are infections by family, friends and work associates, 
 new cases of infection announced by government and increase in fatality 
 cases. 
e) Respondents have confirmed 
 that the SARS epidemic has had a significant impact on their work and 
 study, and to a large extent undermined their confidence in their future 
 lives and careers.
 f) Respondents have, in 
 the past few weeks, taken preventive measures such as wearing face masks, 
 improving personal hygiene (e.g. frequently washing their hands), reducing 
 shopping and eating out. However, they have not deliberately cut down 
 on class attendance and riding public transportation. One-third of them 
 did resort to medication, including Chinese herbal medicine. 
g) While respondents admit 
 that they do not have a good understanding of the SARS situation in 
 Mainland China and Beijing, 91.6 per cent think the epidemic situation 
 in Beijing is far worse than in Hong Kong. This may be due to the fact 
 that the epidemic is still raging in China, while it has probably peaked 
 in Hong Kong. 
"The survey has uncovered 
 a number of interesting findings," said Professor Jia. "One of these 
 is the attention they pay to new cases of infection rather than suspected 
 cases." 
"I hope our findings will 
 help improve understanding by government and related organizations of 
 Hong Kong citizens' psychological state and behaviourial response, thus 
 facilitating their policy deliberations," he added. "Government could 
 consider actively helping to alleviate the various feelings of uncertainty 
 in people's minds. They can, perhaps, publicize the longer-term health 
 implications of SARS sufferers, the progress of various research in 
 the prevention and treatment of SARS. All these can eliminate feelings 
 of uncertainty about the epidemic and help build a more rational assessment 
 of the SARS risk." 

 
