[title]Increasing Salt Intake Predisposes Hong Kong People to Hypertension and Its Complications[/title]

[date]19 May 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 Aviation Policy Experts Commented on the 
 Partial Privatization of the Airport Authority Hong Kong 
 
The Chek Lap Kok Airport is the most valuable and strategic infrastructure 
 project ever built in Hong Kong. Recent estimates show that the 
 aviation industry and other derived services contribute to 10% of 
 Hong Kong's GDP. Any changes in its governance structure, decision-making 
 process and operational features should be undertaken with extreme 
 care and supported by detailed assessment. 
The 
 Aviation Policy and Research Center (APRC) at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong has been studying the aviation policy in Hong Kong. 
 The Center's Director, Professor Japhet Law and the Associate Directors, 
 Professor Michael Fung and Dr. Law Cheung-kwok commented on the 
 Government's proposal to privatize the Airport Authority. 
In 
 listing the reasons in support of the privatization proposal, the 
 Government considers that the exercise can strengthen market discipline 
 in the running of the airport for greater efficiency and more commercial 
 opportunities. However, members of the Center suggest that less 
 disruptive and more direct approaches should be explored to improve 
 efficiency by the board and management of the Airport Authority 
 before resorting to using privatization as the means. There is no 
 doubt that a listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange will provide 
 additional access to the capital market. However, given the high 
 potential for improvement in the Airport Authority's financial position 
 in the years to come, there is good likelihood that superior alternatives 
 will be available to satisfy the future capital needs. 
The 
 other reasons such as adding diversity to the local financial markets, 
 and providing a chance for Hong Kong people to take part in the 
 success of a well-managed company by the privatization exercise 
 are considered "not convincing" by the Center. It should be noted 
 that the original proposal of the privatization may have been motivated 
 by a need for balancing our budget amid financial difficult times 
 in previous years. However, the Central Government's recent CEPA 
 initiative and the introduction of individual travel schemes has 
 significantly brightened the economic outlook for Hong Kong, thus 
 minimizing the need for immediate or medium term financial needs 
 for the Government. 
The 
 Center considers it more important to bring the concept of cost-benefit 
 into this deliberation. There are obviously costs involved in the 
 privatization exercise, both in terms of monetary and other resources. 
 The cost of continuing to maintain a listed company, and continuously 
 finding a balance between the public good for all of Hong Kong and 
 the financial benefits of the minority shareholders in the new Company 
 are all significant costs that cannot be ignored. A glance at the 
 list of issues contained in the Government's consultation paper 
 indicates that many of them are not amendable to simple or easy 
 solutions, while others are of the nature that if a less-than-optimal 
 choice is being selected, the long term repercussion can be tremendous 
 in terms of the overall cost to Hong Kong's economy. This list of 
 issues is a clear reflection of the totality of the "costs" involved 
 in this proposed exercise, not to mention the political and legal 
 issues that may arise. 
When 
 the cost-side is being brought into the picture, together with the 
 lack of strength in the justifications for the privatization exercise 
 and the significantly diminished need for short to medium term fixes 
 to the financial position of the Government, the Center concludes 
 that the case for the partial privatization of the Airport Authority 
 is not there at this time or in the foreseeable future. 
If 
 the privatization is launched, the Center suggests that the new 
 company should pursue continuous improvement towards the established 
 mission of the Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA), and that 
 (1) the overall service quality, particularly the service quality 
 of the aeronautical services will not fall below the service quality 
 level of the HKIA before the privatization, (2) The overall level 
 of charges will also not be higher than that before the privatization; 
 and (3) the overall performance of HKIA will not be worse than that 
 before the privatization. 
Professor 
 Japhet Law, Director of the Center said, "We advocate that the partial 
 privatization of the Airport Authority be postponed and we suggest 
 adopting improved governance and other effective practices; to continue 
 to project future capital needs and evaluate and plan for the most 
 cost effective means to support future funding needs; and to continue 
 to study and implement appropriate regulatory frameworks to ensure 
 the Hong Kong International Airport and the Airport Authority to 
 continue to improve and remain a center of international and regional 
 aviation" 
 
 



 
