[title]CUHK and HKIEd Signed Agreement on Deep Collaboration[/title]

[date]9 July 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 and HKIEd Signed Agreement on Deep Collaboration 
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Hong Kong Institute 
 of Education (HKIEd) announced that they have entered into an agreement 
 on deep collaboration in the area of teacher education. The agreement 
 was signed today between Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor 
 of CUHK and Professor Paul Morris, President of the HKIEd. 
The 
 two institutions had appointed a joint task force, which after in-depth 
 discussion recommended a set of principles. These principles were 
 subsequently approved by the two Councils in their respective meetings 
 in June. The agreement signed today formalizes these principles, 
 and provides a platform upon which collaborative projects will be 
 considered, planned and implemented. 
It 
 is expected that the combined strength of CUHK and HKIEd will create 
 synergy and facilitate cross-fertilization, which will enhance the 
 quality of education and the teaching profession throughout Hong 
 Kong, as well as the performance of both institutions in their respective 
 roles agreed with the University Grants Committee (UGC), ensuring 
 for them the leading position in teacher education in Hong Kong. 
 The collaboration will also be able to play a significant role across 
 the Asia-Pacific region, and contribute to making Hong Kong a regional 
 higher-education hub. 
CUHK 
 and HKIEd acknowledge, recognize and respect the differences in 
 missions, roles and traditions between the two institutions, and 
 agree that the best of these should be preserved and enhanced in 
 the future collaboration. 
The 
 collaboration is to be developed for the academic and professional 
 enhancement of teacher education in Hong Kong and the region, and 
 is not meant for resource saving purposes. 
The 
 discussions between the two institutions will first focus on two 
 triennia (2005-08 and 2008-11), during which various levels of cooperation, 
 other than a full merger, will be developed. During these two triennia, 
 the two institutions will continue largely with their present governance, 
 and operate on their respective existing campuses. Appropriate changes 
 might be adopted for the second triennium upon mutual consent. 
For 
 the second triennium, the two institutions have obtained an assurance 
 from the UGC that its resources devoted to teacher education in 
 each institution would be at least preserved, subject to the progress 
 of the deep collaboration. 
The 
 UGC has also reaffirmed to both institutions its willingness to 
 consider, at an appropriate time, a joint submission from both institutions 
 seeking additional financial support of this initiative in this 
 and/or the next triennium. 
The 
 two institutions are aware that, in the longer term, greater benefits 
 may be realized by a clear vision with a high level of synergy. 
 The discussions between the two institutions, therefore, will seek 
 to arrive at an eventual model that benefits all parties. 
Professor 
 Lawrence Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said, "I firmly believe that 
 the deep collaboration between CUHK and HKIEd will be a fruitful 
 one, not only for the two institutions, but also for teacher education 
 in Hong Kong and in the region. Support from members of both institutions, 
 from the UGC and the Education and Manpower Bureau, and from the 
 teaching profession at large will be needed to realize the full 
 potential of this deep collaboration." 
Professor 
 Paul Morris, President of the HKIEd said, "We believe that by capitalizing 
 on our complementary strengths, and creating a combined critical 
 mass of teaching and research expertise, deep collaboration will 
 not only bring benefits to our students, but also make a positive 
 difference to the education sector at large. With enriched learning 
 experiences and wider exposure, I have no doubt that together we 
 will turn out teachers of ever rising quality, who will in turn 
 enable ever improving education quality for future generations." 
 
With 
 the signing of the agreement, the CUHK-HKIEd Task Force on Deep 
 Collaboration, spearheaded by a vice-presidential level group, will 
 start to draw up mid- to long-term strategies and plans. 


 
 
 


 
