[title]CUHK BA Students Participate in Internaltion Competition with Creative Business Plan[/title]

[date]22 March 2006[/date]


 CUHK Faculty of Business Administration
 MBA Students and Undergraduate Students Participate in 
 International Competition with Creative Business Plan 
 Some CUHK undergraduate business students and MBA students will represent Hong Kong to participate in international business plan competitions with their innovative business ideas. Their plans have made them the champion and the first runner-up of the CUHK Vice-Chancellor¡¦s Cup of Student Entrepreneurship Competition organized by the CUHK¡¦s Center for Entrepreneurship earlier respectively. 
 Five students studying MBA Programme in Finance co-offered by CUHK and Tsinghua University including Andy Bai, Tingwu Cao, Joe Xie, Jonathan Ye, Rollion Zhang and Alessandro Pagella who is studying the double MBA degree porgramme of CUHK and HEC in France, will represent Hong Kong to compete with leading business schools in Thailand, Singapore, India, Japan and Philippines etc. at the Asian Moot Corp Competition held in March 22-25 in Bangkok, Thailand. Most of these top-notch business students are elites from the Mainland who now have the valuable opportunity to meet and learn with overseas business students through participating in an earlier competition held in Hong Kong. 
They form NanoPure Limited and plan to establish a professional one-stop cleaning service for the clothing worn by workers in the ultra-clean rooms of the high-technology electronics manufacturing. The potential market of cleanroom in China is enormous. The team estimates the potential market will increase by 30% to HK$14 billion in 2010. They plans to get involved in the whole cleanroom industry and become a one-stop cleanroom service provider. The CUHK-Tsinghua MBA in Finance students consist of professionals in the cleanroom field, investment banking and finance. They are looking for US$1.5 million investment in exchange for 37.5% of shares of the company to the investors. They will also bring over 30% turnover to the investors.
 Another team consisting undergraduate business students Wong Wing Sinn and Ko Hui Lui and Wong Leung Chung, a PhD candidate in computer science and engineering will also represent Hong Kong to compete with top business schools in the world such as London Business School, Northwestern University, Oxford University and Michigan University at the Moot Corp Competition held in US in May. The team has received sponsorship on the hotel accommodation for the competition from North China Shipping Holdings Co. Ltd They form Maxway International Development Limited and have invented an environmental friendly Rat Climbing Preventer, a patent device which can effectively prevent the rats from climbing up various objects, particularly the water pipes and trees, without using any chemical or electricity, hence to protect human life and properties and the agricultural products. They plan to US$120,000 for the initial start-up cost.
About The CUHK¡¦s Center for Entrepreneurship
The Center for Entrepreneurship¡¦s mission is to inspire a passion for, and an understanding of, entrepreneurship among the staff and students of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the wider community. The Center is a multi-disciplinary organization dedicated to promoting entrepreneurship through:
 ¡E Research - The Center seeks to understand this force through scholarly and applied research. Since 2002, the Center has been a member of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM). It works with business and research organizations in Hong Kong and Greater China to identify and investigate the issues affecting entrepreneurship.
¡E Education - The Center¡¦s education programme enhances and expands the University¡¦s current offering of courses in entrepreneurship. The activities include seminars, workshops, and visits to entrepreneurial ventures.
¡E Practice - The Center helps students plan new companies that create value by satisfying market needs. It encourages students, faculty, alumni and members of the community to form multi-disciplinary teams.
 
Front: Wong Wing Sinn Cindy
Back row (from left to right): Ko Hiu Lui, Wong Leung Chung and Prof. Kevin Au (associate director of the Center for Entrepreneurship, the team's advisor) 
From left to right: Andy Bai, Prof, Hugh Thomas (associate director of the Center for Entrepreneurship, the team's advisor), Alessandro Pagella, Jonathan Ye and Rollion Zhang


 
