[title]Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz of Pakistan Lectures at the Chinese University[/title]

[date]8 August 2005[/date]


Prime

 Minister Shaukat Aziz of Pakistan Lectures at the Chinese University 
 
 
His Excellency Mr. Shaukat Aziz, Prime Minister of Pakistan, will 
 visit The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and deliver a distinguished 
 lecture on 12 August. 
The 
 title of the lecture is "Pakistan's Vision for the Asian Century: 
 Promoting Cooperation for Peace and Development", one of the greatest 
 concerns of our time. The growing importance of Asian countries 
 in shaping world affairs in the 21st century is a widely subscribed 
 notion, given their emerging political and economic power. Within 
 South Asia, Pakistan has a vital role to play. Prime Minister Aziz 
 is therefore one of the most qualified individuals to speak on this 
 topic. 
Before 
 he became the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. Aziz was a veteran 
 banker. He is also currently the Minister of Finance of Pakistan. 
 Under his leadership, the economy of Pakistan has experienced significant 
 growth. With his extensive political and financial experience, Mr. 
 Aziz will be able to share some valuable insights with CUHK students, 
 staff, consuls and community leaders at the lecture.
It 
 has become a common practice for the visiting head of state of government 
 to lecture in a leading university of the host country. The Chinese 
 University is delighted with the valuable opportunity to host the 
 lecture of the Prime Minister of Pakistan during his visit to Hong 
 Kong. 
This 
 lecture will add to the CUHK's initiatives to promote international 
 links. Over the years, many famous academics and leaders in different 
 fields from around the world have lectured at CUHK. By sharing their 
 wisdom and accomplishments, they have enlightened not only students 
 and staff, but also the Hong Kong public. 
His 
 Excellency Mr. Shaukat Aziz, Prime Minister of Pakistan
Biography 
 of His Excellency Mr. Shaukat Aziz, Prime Minister of Pakistan
 




 
