[title]Survey on Youth Risk Behaviour[/title]

[date]8 April 2004[/date]


 Predict Youth Risk Behaviour
 Way to Develop Healthy and Harmony School Life 
The major causes of adolescent 
 mortality and morbidity are not diseases, but preventable health risk 
 behaviors such as intentional injuries, suicidal ideation or attempt. 
 Recent researchers have shown that other health risk behaviours apart 
 from depression and hopelessness also place the adolescents at risk 
 of suicidal ideation and behaviour.
 
In 2001, a Youth Risk 
 Behaviour Survey (YRBS) was conducted by The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong Centre for Health Education and Health Promotion amongst a total 
 of 7,192 Hong Kong students from 16 primary schools and 18 secondary 
 schools from school network of the Centre which composes schools of 
 different academic levels in different geographical areas throughout 
 the territory. The key findings include: 
The high risk factors 
 which influenced the suicidal ideation include: Self-harm, early sexual 
 experience, drug abuse, depression, gender (female), violence, satisfaction 
 with life scale and exercise. 
The high risk factors 
 which influenced the suicidal behaviour include: Self-harm, suicidal 
 thoughts in the past 12 months, smoking, gender (female), violence 
 in the past 30 days, violence in the past 12 months and depression.
 Regular exercise and 
 life satisfaction are the protective factors which could trim down 
 the problem of suicidal ideation and depression. 
In 2003, the Centre conducted 
 another related research. A total of 3,498 students, graded Form 1 to 
 Form 6 from 17 secondary schools selected by random sampling, have participated 
 in the study. The findings indicated that: 
 29.2% of the students 
 had a feeling of depression and hopelessness in 2 consecutive weeks 
 in the past 12 months and 11.4% of them considered their emotion problem 
 influenced their daily life and social activities; 
 11.1% had suicidal ideation 
 in the past 12 months; 
9.1% thought about how 
 to commit suicide in the past 12 months; 
4.0% have attempted suicide 
 few times in the past 12 months by wrist slitting or drug abuse. 
 
The findings of another study demonstrated that satisfaction with 
 life and perceived family relationships have direct or indirect effect 
 on depression. 
These findings suggest 
 the need for a more supportive and positive environment especially at 
 schools with strong psychosocial correlation with health compromising 
 behaviours. The results of these studies would also alert the professionals 
 working on youth and also family physicians by early identification 
 of those adolescents at risk. As well, schools and communities can provide 
 an important avenue for health education and health promotion programs 
 that aim to reduce the youth risk behaviors. The concept of 'Health 
 Promoting Schools' emphasizing holistic and school based approach would 
 be beneficial for personal development of students. The Centre will 
 continue its effort to dedicate to promote health via the 'Healthy Schools 
 Programme' to enhance students' physical, mental and social health through 
 a holistic approach. 
 

 
