[title]Birth of Hong Kong's first baby conceived from blastocysts derived from frozen eggs and sperm[/title]

[date]6 August 2004[/date]


 Birth of Hong Kong's first baby conceived from blastocysts 
 derived from frozen eggs and sperm 
 
The Assisted Reproduction Technology (ART) team of the Faculty of 
 Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong announces the birth of 
 a healthy baby on April 29, 2004 at the Prince of Wales Hospital following 
 the transfer of blastocysts derived from frozen-thawed eggs fertilized 
 with frozen-thawed sperm. 
The 
 patient is a 37-year-old woman who presented with a history of tubal 
 occlusion of five years duration and came for her first IVF treatment 
 in March 2003. On the day of egg collection, 23 eggs were collected 
 but her husband failed to produce a semen sample. The couple chose to 
 have the eggs frozen. Three months later, the husband produced a semen 
 sample which was also frozen. Subsequently, 14 eggs were thawed out, 
 of which 10 survived. These eggs were inseminated with the husband's 
 frozen-thawed sperm by the intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) technique. 
 Of the 10 injected eggs, 8 fertilized and developed into early embryos 
 on day 3. Two embryos developed into blastocysts on day 5 and were transferred 
 back to the wife's uterus. A healthy baby boy weighing 3.14 kg was subsequently 
 born at the 35th week of gestation by cesarean section. This is the 
 first report of a live birth following the transfer of blastocysts derived 
 from frozen-thawed eggs and frozen-thawed sperm. 
Although 
 it is not so difficult to freeze embryos, successful pregnancies remain 
 difficult to achieve from the freezing of human eggs. Throughout the 
 world in the past 15 years, fewer than 70 live births have been reported. 
 Whilst the clinical efficiency is low, these healthy children born from 
 frozen eggs may provide confirmation of the safety of human egg freezing. 
 The potential applications of this technique in assisted reproduction 
 include problematic sperm production at the time of egg collection, 
 egg donation programmes, in country where embryo freezing is prohibited, 
 and preservation of fertility for young women with malignancy prior 
 to radiotherapy or chemotherapy. 
The 
 CUHK IVF programme has carried out research on human egg freezing since 
 the beginning of 1999. It receives support from the Hospital Authority, 
 the Lee Hysan Clinical Sciences Research Laboratories and the Department 
 of Chemical Pathology. Up till now, our Unit has only offered egg freezing 
 to couples when no sperm is available on the day of egg collection. 
 Altogether 85 eggs have been cryopreserved from 12 women and 73 of these 
 frozen eggs have subsequently been thawed out in 11 patients, only 8 
 patients had viable embryos available for transfer. The overall survival, 
 fertilization and cleavage rates of frozen eggs after thawing have been 
 61.6% (45/73), 48.9% (22/45), and 81.8% (18/22) respectively. The implantation 
 and pregnancy rates are 9.0% (1/11) and 12.5% (1/8) respectively including 
 all stages of embryo being transferred. This research project has been 
 approved by the Ethical Sub-committee of the Faculty of Medicine. While 
 further study will be needed to determine the most effective conditions 
 and methods for freezing of human eggs, the live birth presented here 
 and those reported by others provide some ground for cautious optimism 
 for the future of this technology.
A 
 blastocyst derived from frozen egg and frozen sperm 
 T 
 
 

 
