[title]Business Leaders Nurture MBA Students through Elite Mentorship Programme[/title]

[date]15 September 2006[/date]


Business Leaders Nurture MBA Students through Elite Mentorship Programme
The new class of full-time MBA students at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be learning their ropes, first hand, from some of the top-notch business leaders in town under a well-designed Elite Mentorship Programme. The programme was kicked off today at the InterContinental Hong Kong where new mentors and mentees gathered to know each other. 
 Over 50 mentors have contributed to the Elite Mentorship Programme since its launch in 2003. This year, 26 business leaders have committed to be mentors. All of them are the movers and shakers of the society including Chairmen, CEOs, Managing Directors and General Managers of multinational and home-grown companies, as well as an Assistant Commissioner of Police from the Hong Kong SAR Government. 
 What is unique about this programme is not just the impressive credentials of the mentors themselves, but the fact that they are all excellent alumni of the MBA and EMBA programmes of the CUHK who have been contributing to the Hong Kong community in their organizations. 
 Professor Lee Tien Sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration expressed heartiest thanks to the mentors, The role of mentor requires heavy commitment and I am particularly touched to see our alumni who are willing to add this responsibility to their crowded schedules. This is a great demonstration of their social responsibility and contribution to the future of Hong Kong. It can only come from big and caring hearts towards our MBA students.
 A mentorship programme that forms part of the MBA studies at the CUHK gives students the opportunity to benefit from former graduates. I am proud to say that this programme provides our students with the key to open the doors to the strongest MBA alumni network in Hong Kong and the accompanied career and business opportunities that a student alone will not have the means to acquire. With the internationalization of our programmes, our alumni network will continue to develop and expand into every part of the world, said Professor Lee. 
 Mr Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Consulting Group Co. Ltd. and Chairman of the Elite Mentorship Programme Committee said, We have so many outstanding alumni in the top echelons of management in the public and private sector. The programme enables us to get these star alumni to lend a hand to our MBA students in their academic, career as well as personal development. It is a crucial complement to classroom teaching as it brings a real-life dimension to their studies. 
 Thomas Wan, Managing Director of Jardine OneSolution (China) Limited said, It has been an interesting experience in my last twelve months as a mentor for the CUHK MBA Elite Mentorship Programme. Not only has it given me the opportunity to share some of my experience and thoughts with some of the brightest young people in town, it also helps me understand better those potential next generation leaders who are going to be an important asset of the society. Through this programme it also provides me with additional platform to keep in touch with CUHK and meet with other alumni members which allow me to meet executives in different industries. I enjoy very much the programme and look forward to another good experience sharing with other young people in the next twelve months. 
 Andre Liem, full-time MBA student of Class 2007 and mentee of Mr. Thomas Wan, said that the programme is a valuable experience to him, The Elite Mentorship Programme is a great way for MBA students to learn from the best in the business: CUMBA's alumni. Many mentors are Managing Directors from big named companies who have substantial experience and wisdom. I greatly value the advice given to me by my mentor who has helped me stay focused on my true goals. 
 CUHK¡¦s full-time MBA Programme was launched in 1966, the first of its kind in Hong Kong. This was followed by the part-time MBA Programme in 1977 and the Executive MBA Programme in 1993. Both the MBA and EMBA programmes have, over the years, received consistently top rankings. The MBA Programmes were ranked No.1 in East Asia by business magazine Asia Inc for three consecutive years from 2002 to 2004. Likewise, the EMBA Programme is also ranked No. 15 worldwide in 2005 and No. 1 independent programme in Asia from 2001 to 2005 for five consecutive years by London-based Financial Times. 
 
 Attachment: 2006 Mentor List 

 
