[title]International Student Assessment Programme[/title]

[date]7 December 2004[/date]


 International Student Assessment Programme Shows HK Students' Outstanding 
 Performance in
 Mathematics, Science and Problem Solving 
 
Hong Kong 15-year-old students performed well compared with students 
 in most other countries, the recent Hong Kong International Student 
 Assessment (HKPISA) released. They were found ranked first again in 
 Mathematics, third in Science, and tenth in Reading (Chinese) among 
 41 participating countries and regions.
Hong 
 Kong students were also ranked second for Problem-Solving Skills, 
 a new assessment domain introduced this time. Students were assessed 
 of their general competencies to solve life's challenges. They were 
 asked to solve problems set in unfamiliar situations by drawing on 
 cross-curricular competencies.
However, 
 researchers found that although the effect of socio-economic status 
 to students' performance is modest, reflecting that Hong Kong is providing 
 a relatively high quality and high equity of educational opportunities 
 for all students, it is found that between-school variance in Hong 
 Kong is significantly high.
The 
 Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), organized by 
 the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 
 compares and evaluates the effectiveness of the education system by 
 assessing how well 15-year-olds approaching the end of compulsory 
 education have acquired the knowledge and skills essential for participation 
 in society.
HKPISA 
 2003 was commissioned by the Education and Manpower Bureau to the 
 Hong Kong Centre for International Student Assessment of the Hong 
 Kong Institute of Educational Research of The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong. This year the assessment focused on Mathematics. During 
 May to July 2003, 4,478 students from 145 schools including government, 
 aided and independent schools were randomly selected for the assessment 
 exercise.
HKPISA 
 2003 found that in Mathematics, Hong Kong scores 550 and keeps 
 its 1st rank compared with HKPISA+. But the score is NOT significantly 
 different from that of Finland, Korea, Netherlands, Liechtenstein, 
 and Japan. In Science, Hong Kong scores 539 and ranks 3rd, 
 tailing Finland and Japan but the difference is NOT significant. In 
 Problem Solving Skills, Hong Kong achieves the second highest score 
 of 548, which sits Hong Kong among the six best performancing participants 
 together with Korea, Finland, Japan, New Zealand and Macao, China. 
 In Reading, Hong Kong scores 510 and ranks 10th, which is significantly 
 lower than Finland, Korea, Canada, and Australia. (Table 
 1 and Table 2) Another 
 interesting observation is that there are no significant gender differences 
 in Mathematics, Science and Problem Solving in HKPISA 2003, but the 
 gender gap in reading is wide with boys of the lower forms perform 
 poorer. (Figure 1)
Researchers 
 studied the equality in education and how students' socio-economic 
 backgrounds (SES) affect their ability. It is found that the effect 
 of students' SES including parental occupation and education level 
 has not significant whereas parental involvement was more important. 
 Students who communicated with their parents more often on various 
 topics (e.g. discussing books, films, social issues and television 
 programmes and school work) and even spending time chatting, and eating 
 the evening meal together tended to perform better. The learning strategies 
 and attitudes were also important factors to student's performance. 
 High achievers tended to have a higher self concept and self efficacy. 
 They also showed higher interest/enjoyment in learning and higher 
 motivation for better career prospects but lesser anxiety. Also, they 
 employed multiple learning strategies more frequently. And they used 
 both competitive and cooperative learning strategies.
The 
 study also found that school climate is related to the good performance 
 of Mathematics among schools. (Figure 
 2) The relatively salient characteristics of high achieving and 
 low achieving schools are positive student and teacher morale, orderly 
 disciplinary climate, stronger sense of belonging, and positive attitude 
 toward school respectively, which are statistically significant. This 
 again proves that the nurturing of caring norm and learning norm by 
 schools and teachers is important to providing a quality and equal 
 learning environment for our younger generation.
Researchers 
 found that between-school variance in Hong Kong accounts for 46.6% 
 of the test score differences for Mathematics, which is higher 
 than the OECD average (32.7%). In both Science and Reading, 
 the between-school variations in HK are also much higher than the 
 OECD average (29.9% and 31.4%), which are 45.4% and 42.2% respectively. 
 (Table 3)
Between-school 
 variance is mostly associated with streaming and academic segregation. 
 Our study provides very positive proof that with the active involvement 
 of teachers, parents and the school authorities, we are able to provide 
 our students a quality and equal learning environment. Disadvantaged 
 schools will be able to provide students a better environment and 
 raise their performance if these schools actively carry out improvement 
 plans and are given more support from the Government. 



 
