[title]Business Leaders Contribute to Nurture CUMBA Students for Future Challenges[/title]

[date]5 November 2005[/date]


Business Leaders Contribute to Nurture CUMBA Students for Future Challenges
 The new class of full-time MBA students at The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be learning first hand and real-life experience from some of the business leaders in town under the CUMBA Elite Mentorship Programme 2005.
37 business leaders have committed to be mentors for the programme, and the list reads like a mini Who¡¦s Who of Hong Kong¡¦s blue chip companies Chairman, CEOs, Managing Directors, General Managers of multinational and home-grown companies. The CUMBA Elite Mentorship Programme is now into its third year. The programme is kicked off today at the Hotel Intercontinental Hong Kong where new mentors and mentees gathered to know each other.
What is unique about this programme is not just the impressive credentials of the mentors themselves, but the fact that they are all top-notch alumni of the MBA and EMBA programmes of the CUHK. The earliest graduate of the list graduated in 1973 and the latest graduated in 2001, spanning three decades.
Professor Lee Tien Sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration expressed heartiest thanks to the mentors, I am very glad that the programme has received resounding and ongoing success because of the support and dedication from our valuable alumni. 18 among them have been helping us in this programme for three consecutive years. The role of mentor requires heavy commitment despite their busy work schedules. This is a great demonstration of their social responsibility and contribution to help our MBA students to climb up their career ladders and contribute to the society. This is indeed the honour of our students to gain real-life experience from them directly.
A mentorship programme that forms part of MBA studies at the CUHK gives students the opportunity to benefit from former graduates¡¦ real-life experience. By having mentors share their guidance and insight into the world of commerce, the programme makes a valuable contribution to the education of Hong Kong¡¦s future business leaders, said Professor Lee.
Mr Armstrong Lee, Managing Director of Worldwide Consulting Group Co. Ltd. and Chairman of the Mentorship Programme Committee said, The superior quality of management professionals in Hong Kong has been instrumental in maintaining the territory¡¦s status as an international, financial and commercial hub over many decades. Our mentors, who are important industry icons and the movers and shakers in the society, can provide the students with coaching and guidance based on real life experience and insights. This programme has clearly demonstrated the strength of our MBA alumni network.
Ms. Wong Wai Kwan Anna (1983 MBA graduate), Managing Director, Head of Private Banking Hong Kong Team of BNP Paribas Private Bank said, What have I done in the past 12 months as mentor to two young and beautiful mentees? I have met them 6 to 7 times, including gatherings with my two other mentees from another university and my previous CUMBA mentees. The most memorable gathering was my visit to CUHK in which both mentees gave my family, including my two daughters a campus tour and we played badminton together. Sharing experiences with young people is rewarding for both sides. I trust that what I can tell them will be seeds for their personal development, and I benefit from sharing their experiences, which refresh and enlighten me.
 Ms Maria Ho, full-time MBA student from the Class of 2006 and mentee of Ms Wong Wai Kwan Anna, claimed that the Mentorship Programme is a valuable experience to her, Through the mentorship programme, I not only built friendship with my mentor through gatherings and sports activities, but also learnt lots from her. I gained more insights in the private and corporate banking industries, and advice on course selections and interview skills. On the other hand, through our interactions, I also learnt lots from her attitudes of enthusiasm, great energy, and charismatic leadership style. This was truly a precious chance for me to learn from a role model businesswoman who is not only successful at work, but also well balanced with her family life. This opportunity is especially important for overseas students who would like to understand more of the work culture in Hong Kong and ingredients for success in this part of the world.
CUHK¡¦s full-time MBA programme were launched in 1966, the first of its kind in Hong Kong. This was followed by the part-time MBA programme in 1977 and the Executive MBA programme in 1993. Both the MBA and EMBA programmes have, over the years, received consistently top rankings. The MBA Programmes were ranked Number 1 in East Asia by business magazine Asia Inc for three consecutive years from 2002 to 2004. Likewise, the EMBA Programme is also ranked Number 15 worldwide in October 2005 and Number 1 independent programme in Asia from 2001-05 for five consecutive years by London-based Financial Times.


 
