[title]Mr. Alex Yasumoto Donates HK$100 Million to the Chinese University[/title]

[date]22 September 2005[/date]


 Mr. Alex Yasumoto Donates HK$100 Million to the Chinese University
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) is delighted to announce a donation of HK$100 million from Mr. Alex K. Yasumoto. The donation will be used to support international exchange efforts as well as academic and research development of the University.
Mr. Alex Yasumoto said, I strongly believe that our younger generation should have a better understanding of the world we live in. I support the vision and efforts of the Chinese University to expand the international horizon of its students and promote cultural exchanges among the young people of Hong Kong, Mainland China, Japan and many other places of the world. The Chinese University is a leading institution with a strong and clear vision of internationalism, an excellent record of academic achievements and outstanding students. I consider it my long-term partner which can help me realize my vision of a better world ahead.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK expressed sincere gratitude to Mr. Yasumoto, We are so excited that you share our aspirations to build a great university with an international outlook. We feel so honoured and privileged that you have chosen us to be your partner in promoting cultural exchange and international cooperation. He continued, We are so gratified that you have full confidence in us¡Xin the quality of our academic programmes, and in the potential of our staff and students to achieve excellence.
CUHK is indeed the first university in Hong Kong to have established student exchange programmes with overseas partners, from as early as 1965. Now, CUHK partners with nearly 200 institutions worldwide, including leading universities such as Peking University, Tsinghua University, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Toronto. This year, CUHK has 613 incoming students and 450 students going out to these partner institutions. Additionally, 1,200 CUHK students will participate in exchange activities of shorter durations.
CUHK has continued to heighten its efforts to internationalize the campus by broadening its student mix, with the objective of adding more value to the education it offers. At the same time, CUHK also draws scholars and students from around the world to its campus, giving them a deeper understanding of Hong Kong, Mainland China, and East Asia, and a greater appreciation of Chinese culture. This year, some 280 non-local undergraduates have been recruited from across five continents. They come from 17 mainland provinces and municipalities, the United States, Australia, Italy, Peru, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and South Korea. With Mr Yasumoto¡¦s remarkable contribution, the University will further enhance its effort to promote academic development and international and cultural exchange programmes that are crucial for nurturing young talents from different parts of the world.
 Attachments: 
 VC's Speech 
Speech by Mr. Alex K. Yasumoto
Video of the Ceremony 
 
 
 



 
