[title]CEOs Show Roadmap to Success[/title]

[date]26 February 2003[/date]


CEOs Show Roadmap to Success
 
The "Talking to CEOs" Programme series, co-organized by the EMBA Programme 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and RTHK, is scheduled for public 
 broadcasting between March and early July 2003. About ten highly-regarded 
 leaders in Hong Kong from various well-established companies and organizations 
 will be invited. The principal objectives of the programme are to leverage 
 the management experiences, insights and personal philosophy of these 
 leaders to demonstrate positive attitude and creative thinking towards 
 crises as well as to bring encouraging messages to the Hong Kong community 
 and people around.
Mr. Francis Yuen, Deputy 
 Chairman of PCCW Limited, shared his valuable experiences and insights 
 with students and alumni of the University's EMBA, MBA and OneMBA Programmes, 
 at the inaugural show of the "Talking to CEOs" Programme series. Professor 
 Andrew C. F. Chan, Director of the EMBA Programme of the University, 
 and Mr. Chow Yung of RTHK co-hosted the show. A wide range of issues 
 was covered in the lively and often hilarious exchanges between Mr. 
 Yuen and the co-hosts as well as the audience during the Q and A session. 
 Included were philosophical subjects such as attributes of a real leader 
 and benefit of different management styles. The "Talking to CEOs" show 
 featuring Mr. Francis Yuen will be broadcast on RHTK Radio 1 and simultaneously 
 posted on the RTHK website (http://www.rthk.org.hk) 
 on March 2.
Mr. Francis Yuen has a 
 distinguished academic and career history. A graduate of the University 
 of Chicago and a student of celebrated economist Milton Friedman, the 
 Nobel Prize Winner, he joined the Pacific Century Group in 1996 as deputy 
 chairman and is currently a deputy chairman of PCCW. He is also a member 
 of PCCW's Executive Committee and chairman of Pacific Century Insurance 
 Holdings Limited. Previous positions held included Chief Executive of 
 The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (1988-1991), Managing Director 
 of Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers Hong Kong Limited (1986-87), and management 
 position in Wardley (1977-85).
This is the first of a 
 series of ten shows. Other speakers in future shows also include Sir. 
 Gordon Wu, Chairman and MD of Hopewell Holdings Ltd.; Dr. William Fung, 
 Group Managing Director of Li and Fung Ltd., Mr. Linus Cheung, Deputy 
 Chairman of PCCW Ltd.; Mr. Joe Yiu, Corporate VP and GM of Motorola, Mrs. 
 Selina Chow, Chairman of Hong Kong Tourism Board, Mrs. Pamela Chan, 
 Chief Executive of Consumer Council; Ms. Marjorie Yang, Chairman of 
 Esquel Group of Companies; and Mr. Raymond Or, GM of The Hongkong and 
 Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. Please visit the EMBA website (www.cuhk.edu.hk/emba) 
 as well as the Faculty website (http://www.baf.cuhk.edu.hk/news/press.html) 
 for a more detailed coverage of these shows. 

 
