[title]Chairman of China Banking Regulatory Commission Lectures at Chinese University[/title]

[date]25 September 2006[/date]


Chairman of China Banking Regulatory Commission Lectures at Chinese University
 Professor Liu Mingkang, Chairman of China Banking Regulatory Commission delivered a lecture on Banking in China at The Chinese University of Hong Kong today. Three hundred guests attended the lecture, including Mr. Paul Chow, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, Dr. Edgar Cheng, Council Chairman of CUHK, Mr. Kwok Kwok Chuen, Government Economist, Mr. Stephen Ng, Chairman of i-Cable Communications Limited, Mr. Joseph Poon, Deputy Chief Executive of Hang Seng Bank, foreign consuls, bankers, business people, academics and CUHK students. Professor Liu Mingkang was also inaugurated as Honorary Professor of CUHK¡¦s Faculty of Business Administration.
Said Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, Professor Liu Mingkang has made tremendous contributions to the development, regulation and supervision of China¡¦s banking sector. He is a key pioneer in China¡¦s financial reform who has been pushing relentlessly for improved practices at the commercial banks across the board. All of us at the Chinese University look forward very much to his staunch support and sage advice in our quest for excellence.
Biography of Professor Liu Mingkang
Professor Liu Mingkang took office as Chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) in March 2003. Before heading the CBRC, Professor Liu held various positions in both banking institutions and government agencies, including, among others, Chairman and President of Bank of China (BOC) (February 2000 March 2003), Chairman of China Everbright Group (July 1999 June 2000), Deputy Governor of the People's Bank of China (March 1998 July 1999), Deputy Governor of the State Development Bank of China (January 1994 March 1998), Deputy Governor of Fujian province and Head of the Secretariat of Fujian provincial government (January 1993 January 1994), President of the BOC Fujian provincial branch (November 1992 January 1993), Vice President of BOC Fuzhou municipal branch (September 1988 November 1992), General Manager of the trust and investment company affiliated to the BOC Jiangsu provincial branch (May 1987 September 1988) and the department manager of the BOC London branch (July 1984 May 1987).
 Professor Liu has been active in international groupings and academic institutions. He is Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, a guest professor at the City University of Hong Kong, Peking University, Tsinghua University and Fudan University. He serves as a member of the Financial Stability Forum Chairman's Advisory Council, and Director of the Board of International Center for Leadership in Finance (ICLIF) of Bank Negara Malaysia.
Introduction of the Faculty of Business Administration
The Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong has always been a pioneer in business education in Hong Kong. It was the first to offer undergraduate business administration programme, MBA programme, and Executive MBA programme. The Faculty consists of School of Accountancy, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Department of Decision Sciences and Managerial Economics, Department of Finance, Department of Management, and Department of Marketing.
 The Faculty excels in teaching and research. It has been named the Best MBA School in East Asia by Asia Inc. for three consecutive years. Its Executive MBA Programme has been ranked No.1 independent programme in Asia for five consecutive years by the London-based Financial Times. It also has an international faculty mix whose research output has been published in reputable international journals.
The Faculty runs joint programmes with distinguished institutions including Tsinghua University, Shanghai National Accounting Institute, Copenhagen Business School, and University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. Professor Sir James Mirrlees, Nobel Laureate in Economics is Distinguished Professor-at-Large of the Chinese University, while the Faculty of Business Administration¡¦s list of honorary professors include Cheng Siwei, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People¡¦s Congress, Liu Mingkang, Chairman of China Banking Regulatory Commission, Liu Hongru, First Chairman of China Securities Regulatory Commission, and Joseph Yam, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
The Faculty has over 17,000 alumni, the largest number among all business schools in Hong Kong. Many of them are now key decision-makers in the government and the business world.
The Faculty of Business Administration will continue to strive for excellence, and to become a leader in business research and education in Hong Kong, Mainland China and Asia by nurturing world-class talents. 

Professor Liu Mingkang and Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK at CUHK's Pavilion of Hanmony. 
Professor Lawrence J Lau presented appointment certificate of Honorary Professor of Faculty of Business Administration to Professor Liu Mingkang.
 
 
 

  

 
