[title]Sir T L Yang and Dr Anthony Neoh SC at the helm of the CUHK Law School[/title]

[date]30 March 2005[/date]


 Sir T L Yang and Dr Anthony Neoh SC at the helm of the CUHK Law 
 School
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has appointed Dr the Honourable 
 Sir T L Yang and Dr Anthony Neoh SC as the Chairman and Vice-Chairman 
 of the Executive Committee of the School of Law respectively. Professor 
 Liu Pak Wai, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, is appointed as the third member 
 of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will provide strategic 
 leadership to the School of Law and be responsible for its initial 
 phase of operation, discharging the duties and functions of the School 
 Board and the Dean until the Dean of School is appointed.
Sir 
 T L is a distinguished and well-respected retired judge in Hong Kong. 
 He is a former Chief Justice and a former Executive Council member. 
 Sir T L has been a staunch supporter of higher education, in particular 
 legal education. He has a long-standing relationship with The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong. He has been a Member of the Council of the 
 University, the Vice-Chairman of the Chung Chi College Board of Trustees, 
 and the Convener of the Co-ordinating Committee of the Chinese Law 
 Programme. In 1984, Sir T L was conferred Doctor of Laws honoris causa 
 by the Chinese University. Since his retirement, he has devoted his 
 time to serving the community. He is currently Vice Patron of the 
 Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups and Chairman of the Hong Kong 
 Red Cross. He was knighted in 1988 by Queen Elizabeth II and awarded 
 the Grand Bauhinia Medal in 1999 by the HKSAR Government. He was also 
 elected an Honorary Bencher of Gray's Inn in England in 2004.
Dr 
 Anthony Neoh is a senior member of the bar, and has been Chairman 
 of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission as well as the 
 Chief Adviser to the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Dr Neoh 
 was Nomura Visiting Professor of International Financial Systems at 
 Harvard Law School in 2004. He is also visiting Professor in many 
 major universities in Mainland China, including Peking University 
 and Tsinghua University. Dr Neoh is currently a Member of the Council 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong believes that the rule of law is a 
 major competitive advantage for Hong Kong and there is a growing demand 
 for legal talent. The School of Law of the University was established 
 with the firm mission of training Hong Kong students with an inquiring 
 mind and a critical understanding of law. The School will produce 
 lawyers with a high degree of professional skill who can practise 
 in Hong Kong and easily adapt to legal practice in China and within 
 the Asia-Pacific region; the School will also contribute to the learning 
 and development of law through research, particularly in the context 
 of the different legal and constitutional traditions of the region.
The 
 School of Law will admit the first batch of students in 2006. 



 
