[title]CUHK Co-organizes Swiss Re University Student Exchange Programme[/title]

[date]1 June 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 Co-organizes Swiss Re University Student Exchange Programme 
 
The first Swiss Re University Student Exchange Programme started 
 at 27 May 2005. As a leader in the world insurance industry, Swiss 
 Reinsurance Company initiated and generously sponsors the first 
 university student exchange programme. The Chinese University of 
 Hong Kong is one of the co-organizer of the programme which provides 
 insurance students of Hong Kong and Mainland China an opportunity 
 to deepen their understanding of insurance industries in the two 
 places and to learn from one another of their cultural and personal 
 similarities and differences. 
Seven 
 top students, including year 1 to year 3 students from the BBA Programme 
 in Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis of the Chinese University 
 joined. They have acquired relevant knowledge in insurance and are 
 enthusiastic to learn about the economy and culture in Shanghai 
 and Hong Kong. During the ten-day programme, the participants will 
 visit insurance companies, insurance regulators, and major industrial 
 companies in both places. 
The 
 group arrived in Shanghai on May 27 for a five-day visit. They visited 
 Bao Steel Company, Shanghai Biochip Company, AIG subsidiary in China, 
 China Pacific Insurance Company, China Life Insurance Company, Shanghai 
 Stock Exchange Market and the Shanghai University of Finance and 
 Economics. 
Their 
 activities in Hong Kong started today until 5 June. They will visit 
 to The Office of Commissioner of Insurance, HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) 
 Holdings Ltd., HSBC Broking, Swiss Reinsurance Company, Royal and 
 Sun Alliance Insurance (HK) Ltd. and Hong Kong Stock Exchange. 
The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong and Swiss Re deeply appreciate all 
 participating companies for their hospitality and generous sharing 
 of their expertise and insights. 
About 
 Swiss Reinsurance Company 
Swiss 
 Re is one of the world's leading reinsurers and the world's largest 
 life and health reinsurer. The company operates through more than 
 70 offices in over 30 countries. Swiss Re has been in the reinsurance 
 business since its foundation in Zurich, Switzerland, in 1863. Through 
 its three business groups Property and Casualty, Life and Health and 
 Financial Services, Swiss Re offers a wide variety of products to 
 manage capital and risk. Traditional reinsurance products, including 
 a broad range of property and casualty as well as life and health 
 covers and related services, are complemented by insurance-based 
 corporate finance solutions and supplementary services for comprehensive 
 risk management. Swiss Re is rated 'AA' by Standard and Poor's, 'Aa2' 
 by Moody's and 'A+' by A.M. Best. 
Swiss 
 Re has been associated with Asia since 1913, and now has more than 
 600 staff in 13 offices in Asia Pacific. 
About 
 BBA Programme in Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis 
The 
 BBA Programme in Insurance, Financial and Actuarial Analysis will 
 provide students with the conceptual understanding of, and analytical 
 skills necessary for insurance, financial and actuarial analysis, 
 plus a sound knowledge of the structure, practices and business 
 functions of the insurance industry. In response to the need of 
 the market, this programme shall be rooted in the Hong Kong institutional 
 environment, but students shall also be exposed to international 
 issues and practices. University-level insurance, financial services 
 and actuarial education is essential to the growth of the industry 
 and to maintain and promote professional standards. Graduates will 
 be equipped to function effectively as managers in insurance and 
 related fields, for which there are excellent career opportunities 
 in Hong Kong. They will also specialize in the quantitative techniques 
 of insurance and receive preparatory training for possible careers 
 in actuarial-related disciplines. 
 Ms Zhang Xun Hua, FLMI underwriter from China Life shared with the 
 group the latest development in the life insurance market in China.
 Students engaged with executives from China Pacific Life Insurance 
 Co Ltd more in-dept discussions. 
 




 
