[title]Rotavirus infection in Hong Kong[/title]

[date]22 November 2003[/date]


 Rotavirus infection in Hong Kong 
 
Rotavirus is the most common cause of severe diarrhoea in children. 
 Almost all children will be infected before the age of five years. Study 
 confirms that approximately one third of children admitted to hospital 
 with diarrhoea have rotavirus and reinforces need for a safe, effective 
 vaccine.
 ¡P Rotavirus, 
 first identified in 1973
 ¡P Causes a global disease of young children characterised by acute watery 
 diarrhoea, fever, and vomiting.
 ¡P Self-limiting diarrhoea usually persists for 3-8 days but may last 
 for up to 3 weeks.
 ¡P Fever and vomiting are most prominent during the first few days of 
 the illness.
Compared 
 with other common causes of diarrhoea, rotavirus infections are more 
 often severe and more likely to be associated with dehydration and require 
 hospitalisation. Consequently, the proportion of children hospitalised 
 for diarrhoea caused by rotavirus is much higher than the proportion 
 seen in the community or outpatient clinics.
Almost 
 all children are infected with rotavirus and the peak incidence of infection 
 is between 6 to 24 months of age. However infection may be asymptomatic, 
 particularly among young infants under three months of age.
In both 
 developed and developing countries approximately one third of all children 
 admitted to hospital with diarrhoea will have rotavirus. However children 
 in developing countries tend to be infected with rotavirus at an earlier 
 age. In Hong Kong rotavirus has a distinct winter seasonality.
As rotavirus 
 infection cannot be prevented by improvements in sanitation and hygiene, 
 a vaccine is seen as the best option for controlling this disease. Prevention 
 of rotavirus is a high priority and as part of a global initiative to 
 fast track the development and introduction of a rotavirus vaccine, 
 regional rotavirus surveillance networks are being set up to increase 
 awareness of rotavirus disease and to collect disease burden data using 
 similar protocols. Hong Kong has been participating in a regional network 
 collecting data on rotavirus for the past 3 years.
In this 
 study prospective surveillance was conducted at four of twelve public 
 government HA hospitals. Hospital staff were encouraged to collect stool 
 specimens from all children under five admitted with a primary or secondary 
 diagnosis of diarrhoea. Children who failed to pass a diarrhoeal stool 
 after admission or had vomiting only were excluded. Stool samples were 
 assayed for rotavirus. There were 7391 diarrhoea admissions for the 
 two-year period 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2003 and 80% (5881/7391) had 
 a stool specimen sent for rotavirus testing and 30% of these were positive 
 for rotavirus (24% of all diarrhoeal admissions). Rotavirus is a significant 
 cause of hospitalisation among children under five years old in Hong 
 Kong, emphasising the potential benefit of a safe and effective rotavirus 
 vaccine in this region. 
 


 
