[title]Tomson Group Donates HK$3.5 Million to CUHK[/title]

[date]16 January 2006[/date]


 Tomson Group Donates HK$3.5 Million to the Chinese University
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong is proud to announce that it has received a donation of HK$3.5 million from Tomson Group; HK$2.5 million will be used to support non-local scholarships, namely, Tomson Group Scholarships, and HK$1 million will be used to support the Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center of the Faculty of Medicine.
Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University expressed deep gratitude to Tomson Group. He said, We wish to nurture talents for the nation and add diversity to our student body by enrolling more outstanding students from the Mainland. I believe the donation by Tomson Group will greatly benefit the scholarship recipients by allowing these outstanding Mainland students to concentrate in their studies and engage in the pursuit of all-round development. The donation also helps to promote research and public education on mood disorders.
Mr. Albert Tong, Executive Director of Tomson Group said, Under the guidance of my late father, Mr. Tong Cun Lin, Tomson Group has devoted to development in the Mainland since early 1990¡¦s and in view of the current stable development of the Group, we would like to establish a scholarship to sponsor Mainland students to further their studies in Hong Kong so as to requite the society and enhance the exchange between the Mainland and Hong Kong. It also aims to nurture talents for the country and to continue the diligent spirit of the late Mr. Tong. The Group may consider regular sponsorship to Mainland students in the future.
The Chinese University participated in the Unified National Colleges Admissions System for the first time in 2005, and admitted 250 outstanding students from 17 provinces and municipalities. For example, a Fujian student admitted to the Business Administration programme scored the second highest marks among 250,000 students in Fujian province who sat for the national examination. In addition, 15 students were among the top 100, while 30 students were among the top 500 of their respective provinces or municipalities. Some of these outstanding students are from more remote areas. The Chinese University is very pleased with its genuinely broad intake from many different parts of the country. 
 
 Mr. Albert Tong, Executive Director of Tomson Group (right) presented a cheque to Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (left). 
 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau (left) presented souvenirs to Mr Albert Tong (right). 


 
