[title]Commissioner Yang Wenchang lectures on CUHK campus today[/title]

[date]12 October 2005[/date]


 Mr Yang Wenchang
 Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC in HKSAR
 lectures on CUHK campus today 
Mr Yang Wenchang, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People¡¦s Republic of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, delivered a lecture at The Chinese University of Hong Kong entitled China¡¦s Road of Peaceful Development and Foreign Policy of Peace today.
Commissioner Yang Wenchang was born in September 1944 in Shandong Province. He graduated from Beijing Institute of Foreign Languages (now Beijing Foreign Studies University). He has held positions in the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the United Kingdom of the Great Britain and Northern Ireland (1972-1974); Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the Republic of France (1974-1979); Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the Republic of Singapore (1993-1995). He was Ambassador of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1995 to 1997, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1997, Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1998 and was appointed Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People¡¦s Republic of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in August 2003.
CUHK has the mission of combining tradition and modernity, and bringing together China and the West. To broaden students¡¦ international horizon and to live up to the University¡¦s mission, CUHK will organize a series of lecture on campus. The first lecture is delivered by Commissioner Yang Wenchang today. Other lectures to follow include: Mr. James B. Cunningham, U.S. Consul-General in the Hong Kong and Macau Special Administrative Regions on 9 November, Mr. Stephen Bradley, British Consul-General in Hong Kong on 1 December, and Mr. Takanori Kitamura, Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong in January 2006. 
Attachment:
Speech of Commissioner Yang Wenchang (in Chinese) 
 
 
 
 
View Past Lectures


 
