[title]Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University Encouraged Freshmen to Reach Out to the World[/title]

[date]1 September 2005[/date]


 Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University Encouraged Freshmen
to Reach out to the World 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong held the Inauguration Ceremony for Undergraduates today. Over 2,000 freshmen, including non-local undergraduates and exchange students from overseas, attended the Ceremony. 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of the Chinese University , addressed the freshmen at the Ceremony. He stressed the University¡¦s tradition to combine tradition and modernity, and to bring together China and the West, and emphasized the added dimension of this aspiration as China rises in the world. CUHK will nurture talents for Hong Kong who are steeped in Chinese culture and equipped with international perspective, which are also important for students¡¦ personal development. Besides, the general education programmes at CUHK have prepared students with a sound knowledge base, wide-ranging interests, good tastes, and a sense of responsibility. 
 CUHK has heightened its efforts to internationalize the campus by creating a broad student mix. This year, some 280 non-local undergraduates have been recruited. This is the first year CUHK has participated in the Unified National Colleges Admissions System, through which students from 17 provinces and municipalities are recruited, including some from remote areas. Other undergraduates come from the United States , Australia , Italy , Peru , India , Indonesia , Malaysia and South Korea . 
 This year, the Chinese University foresees to enroll 613 overseas exchange students, some 30% higher than last year. To support exchanges, in 2004-05 the University gave out 134 exchange scholarships (total $4.4 million), an increase of 45% over the year before. CUHK has also invited world renowned scholars and leaders in different fields to its campus. These distinguished individuals have been sources of inspiration to students. Last year alone, ten Nobel Laureates have delivered lectures at CUHK. 
 Professor Lau called the students the cream of the crop. While announcing the outstanding admissions figures this year, he encouraged students to develop their full potentials through healthy competition with other bright students. According to the latest JUPAS statistics, in 2005-06, CUHK has admitted the largest share of both first-choice and Band A JUPAS applicants. Of the top 1,000 JUPAS entrants, more than half have chosen to enroll in CUHK. Moreover, 178 outstanding Secondary 6 students were admitted through the Early Admissions Scheme; of these fourteen had obtained 10As or 9As in HKCEE. 
 Professor Lawrence Lau said that there are many opportunities for growth and expansion for the Chinese University ahead. The new School of Law will start to offer programmes next year. The University has secured more funds to establish scholarships for outstanding students. To provide a better learning environment, a host of new facilities will be completed in the coming few years, such as new hostels, a pedestrian piazza outside the KCR station, a new integrated teaching building, the Central Science Laboratory Building, a new medical sciences building and a teaching hotel. 
Appendix: CUHK admissions figures 2005-06 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau addressed the freshmen at the Inauguration for Undergraduates 
 Over 2,000 freshmen attended the Inauguration. 
 Professor Lawrence J. Lau and this year's overseas exchange students. 


 
