[title]Professorial Inaugural Lecture by Professor Anthony P.C. Yim[/title]

[date]12 December 2003[/date]


 Professorial Inaugural Lecture by Professor Anthony P.C. Yim
 Professor of Surgery and Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 
Professor Anthony P.C. Yim, Chair Professor of Surgery and Chief of 
 Cardiothoracic Surgery at The Chinese University of Hong Kong delivered 
 his professorial inaugural lecture titled "The Cutting Edge" on Friday, 
 12 December 2003 at 6:00 pm in the Shaw Auditorium, Postgraduate Education 
 Centre, Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
 Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin.
Professor 
 Yim would like to dedicate this lecture to the frontline health care 
 workers who fought SARS . He will speak about major issues faced by 
 surgeons today in Hong Kong. At the present time, there is a change 
 in gender mix of the medical profession as there seem to be more female 
 medical students than male students, indicating that the future of surgery 
 depends on the integration of females into the traditionally male-dominated 
 profession. The aging population shows that more emphasis should be 
 placed in geriatric surgery, and new surgical approaches for the elderly 
 should be used. The current severe budgetary deficits, uncertain career 
 prospects and perceived diminished training opportunities represent 
 major challenges to the profession. They are seriously damaging to the 
 morale of the surgical trainees, and deterring medical graduates from 
 surgery. The future of the specialty depends on the surgeons' tenacity 
 to create opportunity out of adversity.
Professor 
 Yim pioneered the development of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) 
 in Asia, which earned him an international reputation. He received his 
 medical education at Cambridge University and the Oxford University 
 Medical School in UK, and received his medical training in University 
 of Chicago Medical Center and Massachusetts General Hospital in USA. 
 He joined The Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1992, and is currently 
 Chair Professor of Surgery, Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery and Co-director 
 of the Cardiovascular Research Laboratory. On top of being a member 
 of over thirty learned bodies and societies, Professor Yim is the Chairman 
 of the Cardiothoracic Surgery Board of the College of Surgeon of Hong 
 Kong and is one of the very few Asian members of the American Association 
 for Thoracic Surgery (AATS), the oldest organization of this specialty. 
 He currently also serves on the Biology and Medicine Panel of the Research 
 Grants Council (RGC) of Hong Kong.
Professor 
 Yim is the lead editor of the standard text in the field Minimal Access 
 Cardiothoracic Surgery, and has contributed to over 30 book chapters 
 and 250 publications in peer-reviewed journals. He currently serves 
 on twenty-four editorial boards of international journals, and has been 
 invited to many leading academic institutions as a visiting professor 
 and to deliver prestigious lectures. 
 

 
