[title]EMBA Forum: Public Speaking is as Simple as Cooking[/title]

[date]10 November 2003[/date]


 EMBA Forum: Public Speaking is as Simple as Cooking 
 
Sir Winston Churchill once said that only two things are worse than 
 speaking in public: to climb up a ladder that is leaning towards you 
 and to kiss a pretty girl who is leaning away from you.
This 
 was Mr. Ng Ming Lam's opening anecdote at the last EMBA Forum. The EMBA 
 Forum was organized by The Chinese University of Hong Kong's EMBA Programme 
 and supported by the University's Asia Pacific Institute of Business.
Making 
 a speech is like preparing a dish: decide on the title, get the ingredients 
 (main body), the seasoning (some jokes), the correct timing (appropriate 
 length) and you have a potential winner. 
Speeches 
 should not be too long, he stressed. The worst mistake is to make your 
 audience wish they were somewhere else.
Try 
 to weave stories and jokes into your speech for added interest. Stories 
 and jokes can be collected from Readers' Digest or the Internet.
Remember 
 also that how the speaker looks and sounds is more important than what 
 he is saying. Skills such as tonality and gestures are equally important.
The 
 content should be supported by credible argument; the speaker's own 
 sincerity and should appeal to the audience's emotions.
Elaborating 
 on the need for sincerity and responsible behaviour, Mr. Ng referred 
 to the incident of contaminated Coke in Belgian, where the company spokesman's 
 opening statement "My apologies to the people of Belgium. I should have 
 spoken with you earlier" immediately won his audience's hearts. Similarly, 
 immediately after the oil spill in 1999, the British Petroleum's CEO 
 scored points for saying: "Our lawyers tell us it is not our fault, 
 but we feel like it is our fault and we are going to act like it's our 
 fault".
What 
 the above incidents demonstrate is that no matter what, timely and responsible 
 action is the best way for damage control. As U.S. President Truman 
 said: "The buck stops here." People are simply tired of buck-passing.
A journalism 
 graduate of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Mr. Ng joined the media 
 in 1969 and became the News Controller of RTHK in 1983. He has been 
 the anchor-presenter of many popular radio and television programs, 
 including the City Forum, Headliner, Today in Legco, Hong Kong Today 
 and a phone-in program, the Nineties. He is currently host of 
 a number of news and public affairs programs at Metro Finance, including 
 China Focus, Corporate Expo and Ming's Teahouse.
Mr. 
 Ng has extensive experience in media skills training. Since 1985, he 
 has conducted more than 350 workshops for business executives and senior 
 government officials.
Mr. 
 Ng was a Jefferson Fellow of the East West Center in Hawaii where he 
 studied political and economic developments of the Pacific Rim countries 
 (1985). He was also trained in BBC, London (1974) and in 1976 he was 
 awarded a scholarship to study Financial Journalism at the Thomson Foundation 
 in Cardiff.
The 
 above EMBA Forum featuring Mr. Ng Ming Lam on October 15, 2003, was 
 the second of a series of similar talks for the 2003/4 academic year 
 by business leaders in Hong Kong. The EMBA Forum is organized by the 
 EMBA Programme of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and is open to 
 students and alumni of the University's EMBA and MBA Programmes.
The 
 EMBA Forum with Mr. Ng Ming Lam was also co-sponsored by the Asia Pacific 
 Institute of Business, the executive education arm of the University's 
 Faculty of Business Administration. 
Mr. Ng 
 Ming Lam
 


 
