[title]Increasing Salt Intake Predisposes Hong Kong People to Hypertension and Its Complications[/title]

 




[date]11 May 2005[/date]

Increasing 
 Salt Intake Predisposes Hong Kong People 
 to Hypertension and Its Complications 
 
Hypertension (defined as blood pressure over or equal to 140/90 
 mmHg in an adult) is an important public health problem because 
 of its common occurrence and aetiological importance in stroke, 
 myocardial infarction, heart failure and kidney disease. Globally,[/title]

26.4% of the adult population in 2000

 had hypertension, and it was 
 projected by 2025 the proportion would rise to 29.2%. 
The 
 most important modifiable environmental risk factors for hypertension 
 include high salt intake, low potassium (vegetable and fruit) intake, 
 obesity, alcohol intake, stress and low physical activity. The current 
 WHO recommendations for adults to reduce their daily salt intake 
 from 9-12 to less than or equal to 5-6g/day will have a major effect 
 on blood pressure and cardiovascular disease. 
 
 
Contrary to the people's knowledge on hypertension, surveys conducted 
 by the Faculty of Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 indicated that salt intake in Hong Kong people was on the rise and 
 much higher than WHO recommendations. In healthy adults, the average 
 salt intake increased from 8.0 g/day during 1989-1991 to 9.4 g/day 
 during 1996-1998 and 9.9 g/day during 2000-2002. 
Chinese 
 are particularly susceptible to dietary salt-induced hypertension 
 because they lack of an efficient mechanism to facilitate renal 
 excretion of salt (sodium). Following an increase in dietary salt 
 intake, the kidney normally synthesizes dopamine to inhibit sodium 
 reabsorption and induce relaxation of blood vessels. This renal 
 dopamine response is not seen in Chinese. In the early stage and 
 before structural changes occur in blood vessels, salt-induced high 
 blood pressure may still be reversible. 
Reducing 
 our current level of salt intake and optimising the other dietary 
 and lifestyle factors have many advantages. The risk of hypertension 
 is lower even in susceptible subjects (e.g. subjects with a family 
 history of hypertension, the elderly, obese subjects and subjects 
 with diabetes or renal disease). In patients with hypertension, 
 reducing the salt intake may help control blood pressure and prevent 
 complications (e.g. left ventricular hypertrophy, renal damage and 
 cardiovascular disease). 
The 
 public should know the aetiological importance of salt intake and 
 other factors in hypertension and the current recommendations and 
 try to reduce their salt intake. Since 75-80% of intake derives 
 from salt in processed foods, more attention should be paid to the 
 sodium content in these food products. Patients with hypertension 
 must have regular follow-ups and treatment. Even in apparently healthy 
 adults, blood pressure should be monitored from time to time. 
 
 



 
