[title]Salesmanship: What it Takes to Sell[/title]

[date]1 September 2003[/date]


 CUHK EMBA "New Thinking in Management" Show:
 Salesmanship: What it Takes to Sell 
 
Taken at face value, salesmanship may seem to apply only to sales 
 people pushing products. In fact, it relates to everyone. All of us 
 are selling something - a merchandise, an idea or a service - at one 
 time or another.
As special guest Mr. Kelvin 
 Wong (District Director, Manulife (International) Limited and also President, 
 The Life Underwriters Association of Hong Kong Limited) said, a kid 
 who wants to get pocket money from his father also needs some salesmanship 
 to succeed.
Professor Andrew Chan, 
 Director of the CUHK EMBA Programme and co-host of the "New Thinking 
 in Management" show, emphasized that successful salesmanship is more 
 than reaching a sales target. A more important goal is customer satisfaction. 
 A good merchandise salesman should not focus solely on selling the merchandise, 
 but should try to understand the customer's needs, as well as whether 
 and how the merchandise meets these needs.
In short, a sale should 
 be a win-win deal, with both sides feeling happy. 
Some sales jobs have more 
 dimensions and require more careful strategizing than others.
Selling Article 23 to 
 Hong Kong people, for example, is a mammoth task. The SAR Government 
 has to look beyond its immediate customer - the legislators - to target 
 their constituents as well as the domestic and international media who 
 can wield enormous power in terms of shaping public opinions.
Professor Leo Sin of CUHK's 
 Department of Marketing and also co-host of the show, pointed out that 
 good salesmanship requires good conversational techniques, particularly 
 in Hong Kong, where time is a premium for most people. A must-read for 
 new salespeople is "EQ Salesmanship" by Pat L. Kwan.
Speaking from experience, 
 Mr. Wong said there are four parts to the selling cycle: establish a 
 rapport with the prospect -- identify a problem -- define the problem 
 and provide a solution. Relationship with the customer is always the 
 determining factor. "The decision to close a deal is made from the heart, 
 not from the head," he pointed out.
Above all, sales professional 
 should keep a good, positive attitude. Some deals may take a long time 
 to close, or not close at all, in which case just regard the experience 
 as a learning process.
Practise this to a finesse, 
 and you may even succeed in selling ice to the Eskimos.
The above show featuring 
 Mr. Kelvin Wong was aired on August 3, 2003, on RTHK Radio 1. The "New 
 Thinking in Management" show is jointly organized by The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong's EMBA Programme and RTHK. It is a live show aired on Sunday, 
 2-4 p.m., on RTHK Radio 1. Co-hosts are Professors Andrew Chan (Director 
 of the EMBA Programme) Leo Sin (Department of Marketing) of The Chinese 
 University of Hong Kong and Ms. Jenny Lee of RTHK. The audience can 
 phone in during the second half (3-4 pm.) of the show. This show debuted 
 in July, and will run until December, 2003. 
(from left to right) Professor C.F. Chan, Director 
 of EMBA Programme; Mr. Kelvin Wong, District Director, Manulife (International) 
 Ltd.; Professor Leo Sin, Dept. of Marketing; Ms Jenny Lee, RTHK. 

 
