[title]CUHK Sets up Centre for the Study of Humanistic Buddhism[/title]

[date]18 April 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 Sets up Centre for the Study of Humanistic Buddhism 
 
The Department of Cultural and Religious Studies at the Chinese 
 University has established a Centre for the Study of Humanistic 
 Buddhism to promote Buddhist culture. Officiating at the inauguration 
 ceremony on 18th April 2005 were the Venerable Master Hsing Yun, 
 director of Fo Guang Shan Foundation for Buddhist Culture and Education, 
 and Prof. Lawrence J. Lau, vice-chancellor of the University. 
At 
 the ceremony, the Venerable Master Hsing Yun thanked the Chinese 
 University for setting up the centre and expressed the hope that 
 the centre will play a leading role in research on humanistic Buddhism 
 and in creating a 'pure land' in the human world. Prof. Lawrence 
 J. Lau lauded Fo Guang Shan Foundation for its support of education 
 and charity, and its promotion of Chinese culture. He believes that 
 collaboration between CUHK and the foundation will further enhance 
 the capacity for academic research at the University. 
Over 
 150 Buddhist monks, scholars, Buddhist enthusiasts and other guests 
 from mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan attended the inauguration 
 ceremony held in Cho Yiu Hall. Prof. Lai Pan-chiu, chairman of the 
 Department of cultural and Religious Studies and director of the 
 new centre, said the centre will focus on promoting Buddhist studies, 
 training scholars, enhancing global academic exchange among scholars 
 and promulgating Buddhist culture. He also thanked the Fo Guang 
 Shan Foundation for its generous support of the centre's establishment. 
 
The 
 Department of Cultural and Religious Studies currently has a full-time 
 professionship in Buddhist Studies. It also offers undergraduate 
 and general education courses in Buddhism as well as master's (research 
 and taught) and doctoral programmes in the area. The centre will 
 invite eminent Buddhist scholars worldwide to the University as 
 visiting professors to conduct research and to give lectures. The 
 foci of its research will include Buddhism and Chinese society, 
 Buddhism and contemporary ethical and cultural issues, and comparative 
 studies and dialogues between Buddhism and other religions. With 
 the aim of promulgating Buddhist culture and enhancing academic 
 exchange, the centre will organize academic conferences and publish 
 academic works on Buddhist studies such as periodicals and books 
 in Chinese and other languages. 
The 
 Venerable Master Hsing Yun and the Venerable Tze Hui of the Fo Guang 
 Shan Foundation, and the Venerable Man Lian, general secretary of 
 the Hong Kong branch of the International Fo Guang Society, have 
 joined the advisory committee of the centre as honorary advisor, 
 chief advisor, and coordinator respectively. Advisory committee 
 members are scholars from mainland China, France, the UK, and the 
 US. 
On 
 the same evening, the Venerable Master Hsing Yun delivered a lecture 
 on the 'Education of Self-Enlightenment in Zen Buddhism' to an audience 
 of over 2,000 at Sir Run Run Shaw Hall. 
Venerable 
 Master Hsing Yun (left) and Prof. Lawrence J. Lau (right)

Venerable 
 Master Hsing Yun





  
 
 


 
