[title]Re-positioning Hong Kong to Capture the Tourist Boom[/title]

[date]28 March 2003[/date]


Re-positioning Hong Kong to Capture the Tourist Boom 
 
Statistics may suggest that Hong Kong was the most popular tourist 
 city destination in Asia in 2002, with over 16 million visitors or 20.7 
 per cent increase over 2001. However, actions are needed to strengthen 
 branding and partnership in order to realize its full potential as a 
 tourist destination, urged industry experts from Hong Kong, Europe and 
 the U.S. at the Tourism Forum hosted by the School of Hotel and Tourism 
 Management of The Chinese University of Hong Kong on March 22, 2003 
 at the University's Town Centre.
Entitled "Charting Strategies 
 for Developing Hong Kong as a Tourist Destination", the Forum was attended 
 by some 220 leaders of the hospitality industry, policy makers and educators 
 as well as students. The Tourism Bureau of Macau was also represented.
Organized around the theme 
 of internationalization and partnership, the Forum featured three presentations, 
 followed by concurrent panel discussions, on: Europe's strategies for 
 successful city destinations; tourism in developing countries and the 
 potential for Hong Kong in developing tourism with other destinations 
 in China and Asia; as well as an update on the Hong Kong Disneyland 
 project and the development of Hong Kong as a tourist destination.
Keynote speaker Selina 
 Chow, Chairman of the Hong Kong Tourism Board, reiterated the SAR Government's 
 commitment to developing the tourist industry. Faced with the "double 
 whammy" of the Gulf War and outbreak of the atypical pneumonia at the 
 moment, "We will keep our heads down and build for the future", she 
 said. "But we are already planning for a comeback (when the current 
 problems are resolved)."
Two of the issues that 
 the Tourism Board plans to tackle are: eliminate tourist rip-offs and 
 ensure the balance of supply and demand of tourist-related services.
In its "2020 Vision" report, 
 The World Tourism Organization has forecast international arrivals to 
 reach over 1.56 billion. The top three tourist receiving regions are 
 expected to be: Europe (717 million), East Asia and the Pacific (397 
 million) and the Americas (282 million).
In Hong Kong, some industry 
 experts also expect tourism to peak by 2005, when Disneyland officially 
 opens and the benefit of other Government initiatives realized. How 
 should Hong Kong position itself to capitalize on this tourist boom?
Hong Kong is in the mature 
 stage of the tourism area life cycle, noted Dr. Judy Siguaw of Cornell 
 University's School of Hotel Administration. This means that market 
 segments previously attracted to Hong Kong may no longer be attracted. 
 Hong Kong needs, therefore, to find ways of "extending the brand". Proposed 
 strategies include continued positioning as Gateway to Asia; collaboration 
 with neighboring tourism destinations; promoting safety and security 
 and creating promotional strategy for targeting third-world travelers.
Branding is likewise central 
 to the strategy suggested by Dr. Colin Johnson, Director, Lausanne Institute 
 for Hospitality Research of Switzerland.
Today's tourists are different, 
 Dr. Johnson pointed out. They are more mature and better informed; travel 
 is part of a lifestyle and their travels are more frequent but shorter 
 in duration. There are two emerging consumer trends: those who seek 
 ways to live better lives with joy and happiness and those who search 
 for simplicity, tradition and real values.
Examples of branding success 
 in Europe include: London which has repackaged itself as "the city that 
 has everything"; Edinburgh as the "City of Festivals"; Glasgow as the 
 "City of Culture"; Rotterdam as the "City of Experience" and Flims, 
 the Swiss ski resort, as the "e-business destination" with the launch 
 of the smartcard system.
He noted that Hong Kong 
 already has impressive attributes as an innovative, cosmopolitan and 
 leading city in Asia. It has succeeded in moving from manufacturing 
 to service to financial centre and now the knowledge-based economy. 
 It also has a number of strong internationally known brands such as 
 Cathay Pacific Airways, HSBC, the Mandarin Oriental and the Peninsular 
 Hotels. However, more is needed to create a critical mass for stronger 
 brand recognition.
While it is possible for 
 tourist destinations to "reinvent' themselves, however, successful branding 
 depends on several key factors, advised Dr. Johnson. There has to be 
 a complete harmonization of design; it has to be believable; and it 
 should be a coherent statement of identity which is the sum total of 
 tourism, business, culture, lifestyle and the environment.
Don Robinson, Group Managing 
 Director, Hong Kong Disneyland and a Disney veteran of over 30 years, 
 sees great potential in Hong Kong as a family vacation destination. 
 However, it has to work harder to
 - Capitalize on its natural 
 beauty, the energy and productivity of workforce
 - Promote itself as a family destination with activities for every member 
 of the family
 - Make tourism easy by continuing to reduce hassle factor
 - Encourage the development of more affordable accommodations
 - Focus on repeat visitation versus maximizing one-time transaction
 - Create a culture of "hospitality as career of choice for top talent"
 - Leverage key industry partnerships.
Other speakers at the 
 Forum were: Mr. Mark Lettenbichler, General Manager, The Ritz-Carlton 
 Hong Kong; Mr. Duncan Pescod, Deputy Commissioner for Tourism; Mrs. 
 Clara Chong, Executive Director, Hong Kong Tourism Board; Mr. Andy Tung, 
 General Manager - Marketing and Sales, Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd.; 
 Ms. Paddy W.Y. Lui, Managing Director, Stanford Hotels International 
 and Mr. William Ng, Executive Director, Star Cruises (HK) Ltd.
"Tourism is an important 
 source of revenue and provider of employment in Hong Kong and one of 
 the industries targeted for growth," said Professor K.H. Lee, Director 
 of The Chinese University's School of Hotel and Tourism Management and 
 organizer of the Forum. "This is an opportune time to bring together 
 key stakeholders to brainstorm future directions on how this industry 
 can be further enhanced."
The Tourism Forum is one 
 of the events in commemoration of the 40th Anniversary of the University. 
 The School of Hotel and Tourism Management was established in 1998 to 
 help train up talents to meet the needs of Hong Kong's hospitality, 
 tourism and real estate industries. The School is planning Hong Kong's 
 first teaching hotel, expected to be completed by 2005. 
 
Caption: Participants applaud the presenters on "Hong 
 Kong Disneyland and the Development of Hong Kong as a Tourist Destination"

Caption: Vice-Chancellor Professor Ambrose King presents 
 souvenir to the Hon Mrs. Selina Chow. Chairman, Hong Kong Tourism Board
Caption: Vice-Chancellor Professor Ambrose King (4th 
 from right) and Professor KH Lee(second from right), Director 
 of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management pose with some of the 
 industry presenters and panellists as well as Professor Leung Wai Kin 
 (first from left) and Professor Eliza Tse (2nd from right).

 
