[title]Accurate Day 1 blood testing for SARS[/title]

[date]23 June 2003[/date]


Accurate Day 1 blood testing for SARS
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong announces a new diagnostic test 
 for SARS, accurate from day one of the disease. This major breakthrough 
 will drastically reduce cross infections in hospitals and prevent large-scale 
 outbreaks in future. 
The severe acute respiratory 
 syndrome (SARS) epidemic is subsiding. Experience to date shows that 
 the inability to confirm SARS infections objectively during the early 
 stage of disease had been a prime hurdle to the effective control of 
 SARS. Sensitive tests that can detect the SARS-coronavirus during the 
 earliest stage of infection will prevent major SARS outbreaks in the 
 future. Unfortunately, current tests fail to meet these requirements. 
 
The research team led 
 by Professor Dennis Lo, Associate Dean (Research), Faculty of Medicine, 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), in collaboration with Professor 
 John Tam from the Department of Microbiology, has developed and evaluated 
 a new test for SARS; its accuracy and applicability early in the course 
 of disease represent a major breakthrough. Professor Lo has a distinguished 
 track record in the development of novel tests based on the analysis 
 of blood plasma. For example, he has successfully detected the genetic 
 material of unborn foetuses from the blood plasma of pregnant women. 
 Professor Lo's experience in blood plasma analysis has given the CUHK 
 team a competitive advantage in developing a new blood-based test for 
 SARS. 
In this novel blood test 
 for SARS, 80% of SARS patients can be positively identified on the first 
 day of hospital admission. The test is based on the detection of the 
 genetic material, namely RNA, of the SARS-coronavirus in blood. It accurately 
 determines the amount of virus carried by the patient, while requiring 
 only a small quantity of blood and a short period of analysis time. 
 Professor Lo has focused on blood because he believes that this approach 
 will give a more representative picture of the total virus load in the 
 whole body. 
The new blood test offers 
 many advantages over existing tests, and represents a major advance 
 in SARS testing. Existing tests based on the detection of antibodies 
 are generally useful only 2 weeks after the start of the disease. Other 
 tests that detect the SARS-coronavirus RNA have largely focused on the 
 use of nasopharyngeal aspirates, urine and stools. As reported, these 
 tests only allow the identification of 30% of the SARS patients by the 
 third day of disease. Also, nasopharyngeal aspirates can only provide 
 a limited picture of the virus load in specific locations of the body. 
 
The performance of the 
 new test has been confirmed by extensive evaluation. The quantitative 
 readout of the test has provided new useful information which had not 
 been possible to obtain previously. Testing from day 1 of hospital admission 
 already reveals patients who have a more severe disease. All 100% of 
 the patients who eventually need to be admitted to the Intensive Care 
 Unit (ICU) were tested positive on day 1, and they have a median virus 
 load that is 28 times higher than those not eventually requiring treatment 
 in the ICU. In addition, this new test can provide a day-to-day reading 
 of the virus load in a particular patient during the course of hospital 
 stay. These results could potentially be used to guide treatment. 
The development of this 
 new test represents a new powerful addition to our arsenal against SARS 
 and will provide a strong line of defense if this disease re-emerges. 
 


 
