[title]Recent Achievements of the CUHK Faculty of Business Administration in Asia[/title]

[date]14 April 2005[/date]


Recent 
 Achievements of the CUHK Faculty of Business Administration in Asia 
 
 
Smart Fortune Magazine, a leading professional magazine 
 in human resources in the Asia-Pacific region, organized the "Smart 
 Fortune China Human Resources Forum and Annual Award" earlier in 
 Macau. On behalf of the CUHK's Faculty of Business Administration, 
 Professor Lee Tien Sheng, Dean of the Faculty and Professor Andrew 
 Chan, Director of EMBA Programme, attended the forum and the award 
 presentation ceremony to receive "The China Business School Dean 
 Leadership Achievement Award" and "The Best EMBA Educational Organization 
 Award" from Smart Fortune respectively. 
Organized 
 for the third time since 2002, the China Human Resources Annual 
 Award aims to recognize the achievement of individuals and organizations 
 for their contribution in the development of human resources in 
 China, including Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau. 
Following 
 the recognition from Smart Fortune, the CUHK's Faculty of 
 Business received another award from The Centre of International 
 Business of the Amity Business School in India earlier. The Centre 
 presented the Amity Academic Excellence Award to Professor Lee Tien 
 Sheng at their "7th International Business Horizon Inbush 2005" 
 - the Biggest International Business Summit and Research Conference 
 of Asia held at the Amity Business School in Noida of India. The 
 summit lays down a platform where captains from companies of repute, 
 bureaucrats and renowned politicians come together and present their 
 views on the changing dynamics of the business environment. The 
 Centre pointed out that this award is "to acknowledge the unrelenting 
 efforts of Professor Lee Tien Sheng in accomplishing the herculean 
 task of blending the best business practices with the world of academics 
 to achieve excellent results in the form of unparalleled growth 
 in spreading the doctrine of knowledge." 
Professor 
 Lee Tien Sheng thanked all Faculty members for their contributions 
 to the Faculty of Business Administration, "All this could not have 
 been possible without the commitment of our Faculty members, the 
 dedication of our students and alumni as well as the tremendous 
 support of the community. We hope to make further contributions 
 to the creation of knowledge in business education and to producing 
 first-class business professionals for Hong Kong, mainland China 
 and the region in the years to come." 
CUHK's 
 Faculty of Business Administration has always been a leading business 
 school in the region and has attained international recognition. 
 For instance, its MBA Programmes have been ranked Number 1 in East 
 Asia by business magazine Asia Inc for three consecutive 
 years from 2002 to 2004. Likewise, the EMBA Programme is also ranked 
 Number 12 worldwide in November 2004 and the Number 1 independent 
 programme in Asia from 2001 to 2004 for four consecutive years by 
 Financial Times. Recently the Faculty has also been ranked fourth 
 worldwide and the first in Asia in international business research 
 by Management International Review, a leading international 
 business journal based in Germany. The survey ranked the productivity 
 of business schools based on the total number of articles published 
 in three top international business journals. CUHK is ahead of renowned 
 universities such as the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard Business 
 School and New York University. 
 


 
