[title]Chinese Academy of Engineering Delegates Visit CUHK[/title]

[date]14 September 2006[/date]


 Chinese Academy of Engineering Delegates Visit CUHK
 An eight-member delegation of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, including six academicians and two representatives from the Division of Agriculture and Division of Environment, Light and Textile Industries Engineering visited The Chinese University of Hong Kong. This is the first time that a high-level delegation of the Academy visited local universities.
The delegation attended seminars organised by UGC AoE Plant and Fungal Biotechnology Center and the Institute of Plant Molecular Biology and Agricultural Biotechnology of CUHK and met local academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Chinese Academy of Sciences, scientists and postgraduate students of CUHK and other institutions. They exchanged invaluable experience and views in various strategic areas including food security of the nation, and latest developments in agricultural biotechnology, ocean science and chemical science. Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK greeted the delegation and Professor Samuel Sun, Academician of the Academy of Engineering and Professor of Biology of CUHK briefed them on the agricultural biotechnology researches in Hong Kong. The four-day visit of the Academy of Engineering promoted in-depth exchanges between higher educational institutions and engineering sectors in Hong Kong and on the Mainland. It also provided a platform for further cooperation for the advance in scientific and engineering research and development in China. 
The Academy of Engineering is a national and independent organization composed of elected members with the highest honour in the fields of engineering and technological sciences of the nation. Its missions are to initiate and conduct strategic studies, provide consultancy to the Government for decision-making in key national issues in engineering and technological sciences, and promote the development of the undertaking of engineering and technological sciences in China and devote itself to the benefit and welfare of the society.
 
The Chinese Academy of Engineering delegation visited CUHK and pictured with 
 Prof Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor (middle), Prof Samuel SM Sun, Professor of Biology (2nd from the left) 
 and Prof Lam Hon Ming, Department of Biology (1st from the left).
 
Professor Dai Jingrui, Deputy Director of Division of Agriculture and 
 Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering 
 briefed seminar participants on the food security of the nation


 
