[title]Forefather of Chinese Market Economy Theories Lectures at CUHK[/title]

[date]16 March 2006[/date]


 Forefather of Chinese Market Economy Theories Lectures at the Chinese University
 Professor Wu Jinglian, Senior Research Fellow at the Development Research Center of the State Council of the People¡¦s Republic of China delivered a lecture on Transformation of the Growth Pattern and China¡¦s Industrialization at The Chinese University of Hong Kong today. More than 200 staff and students attended the lecture.
 Professor Wu Jinglian is one of the most influential economists in contemporary China. He was presented the first China Economics Award in March 2005 in recognition of his contributions in theoretical economics and China¡¦s economic reform. He co-founded the Chinese comparative institutional analysis, making him one of the forefathers of market economy theories in China. He has also given numerous valuable policy advices in the course of economic reform and development of China, in areas such as private enterprises and competitive market systems.
 Professor Wu Jinglian was born in Nanjing in 1930. After graduating in 1954 from the Department of Economics of Fudan University, he had served at the Institute of Economics of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences as research intern, assistant research fellow, senior research fellow, and professor. Since 1984, he has been a senior research fellow at the Development Research Center of the State Council of the People¡¦s Republic of China, Deputy Director of the Office for the Panel on Economic Reforms Project of the State Council, Standing Committee Member of the 9th and 10th Chinese People¡¦s Political Consultative Conference, and The Advisory Committee for State Informatization (ACSI). Professor Wu is currently a professor at the Graduate School of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Peking University, and the China Europe International Business School. He was also visiting researcher or professor at Yale University, Oxford University, Stanford University, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
  
 
 
Professor Wu Jinglian 
 


More than 200 staff and students attended the lecture
  

Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK (right) presented hand-painted snuff bottles to Professor Wu Jianglian (left). 
 


 
