[title]CUHK Study Finds Voluntary HIV Testing Effective in Promoting Safer Sex[/title]

[date]25 September 2006[/date]


CUHK Study Finds Voluntary HIV Testing Effective in Promoting Safer Sex
 A recent consultancy report commissioned by the Hong Kong Advisory Council on AIDS and other local studies have pointed out that the high prevalence of Hong Kong men purchasing sex in mainland China presents a threat to the future HIV scenario in Hong Kong. Accordingly, the Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the School of Public Health, The Chinese University of Hong Kong and the AIDS Concern with the sponsorship from the Research Fund for the Control of Infectious Diseases, Health, Welfare and Food Bureau investigated the efficacy of using rapid HIV antibody testing and counselling as a means of HIV prevention during January 2005 through March, 2006. 
The study used a strict and scientific randomized control method, which randomized 301 Hong Kong-mainland China truck drivers who admitted having had sex with a female sex worker (n=220) or having a non-regular sex partner (n=110) in the last 2 months in mainland China into 2 groups: one that received voluntary testing and counseling (VCT) service and another received only information materials. They were being followed up by mobile phone calls after 6-8 weeks to investigate any differences in HIV-related behaviors.
Releasing the study results, Professor Joseph Lau Tak Fai, Director of the Centre said, among these participants, about 60% to 70% of the members in both groups used condoms every time when having sex with female sex workers (61% in the VCT group versus 67% in the Information group). However, the rate of using condoms every time when having sex with female sex workers increased to 86% in the VCT group but remained at 69% in the Information group at the end of the study period (see attached figures). Similarly, the prevalence of using condoms every time when having sex with non-regular sex partners increased from 27% to 55% in the VCT group during the study period, but only changed slightly from 32% to 36% during the study period in the Information group. These results are statistically significant, showing that the voluntary counselling and testing approach not only could inform testees of their HIV status; it could also promote safer sex among men visiting female sex workers or having non-regular sex partners.
Professor Lau recommends more people having had some risk behaviors to receive the testing services. He pointed out that the prevalence of HIV testing remains less than 20% in different groups that are vulnerable to HIV infection in Hong Kong, which was lower than those of many other countries. In the aforementioned consultancy report commissioned by the Hong Kong Advisory Council on AIDS, the consultant pointed out that cross-border HIV prevention work has been underfunded and as a result, the coverage is inadequate. He said, These testing services are now being provided by highly professional organizations. They are free and well received. Affected people should be more open to receive such services, rather than denying the HIV problem that occurred daily to others and may also occur to oneself.
Ms Margaret Pang of the AIDS Concern said, The testee has to face himself for the possible consequences that his behaviors could bring along, and hence they are beginning to change their risk behaviors. We are very much encouraged by the results. We urge the Hong Kong Government to provide more resources for this type of testing and suggest more organizations to offer such services to different social groups that are affected by HIV/AIDS.
In addition, Professor Lau pointed out that about 30% of the study participants did wear the condom after penetration occurred and this is dangerous and not an effective way for HIV prevention. The annual number of reported HIV cases in Shenzhen increased from 27 in the year 2000 to over 500 in the year 2005, he added. Therefore, if we take the incorrect use of condom into account, the level of risk behaviors may even be higher than it seems. There were 30-40% of the respondents believing that at least 10% of the female sex workers working in mainland China were infected with HIV. However, this perception was not significantly associated with condom use behaviors. Therefore, respondents were aware of the high risk but did not take preventive action. In other words, he argued that it is inadequate for HIV workers to only remind their clients about the high risk associated with their behaviors, nor is it adequate to only provide them with HIV-related information. More innovative and in-depth intervention methods, such as voluntary counselling and testing, needs to be developed and implemented with a wide coverage. 



 
