[title]Survey on HK Teenage pregnancy[/title]

[date]27 July 2006[/date]


 CUHK Survey shows
 HK adolescents lack senses and knowledge of human sexuality
 The roles of parents and schools crucial yet unfulfilled 
 Our knowledge and senses in Human sexuality has never been investigated in HK. Our views and values on Teenage pregnancy have never been explored too. 
Dr S F Lin from Department of Psychology of the CUHK and Mother¡¦s Choice pioneered a large-scale study on HK Teenage pregnancy- their values, attitudes and decision making. 3299 adolescents who are still receiving full-time education in HK (aged 14-21 years) were invited to fill in a questionnaire concerning their values and attitudes towards teenage pregnancy, and factors affecting their decision-making once they got pregnant. 140 parents of children aged 12-21 years old were also invited to fill in a questionnaire which is paralleled to teenagers¡¦ questionnaire. 5 teenagers who experienced teenage pregnancy were also interviewed and the interviews were analyzed qualitatively on difficulties, problem-solving, source of help, and factors affecting decision-making. 
 No previous study on the issue has ever been done as thoroughly as this one before, not even in Western countries, at least not documented.
The study findings reflected a lack of senses and knowledge about human sexuality when facing life choices. Our results indicated that HK Adolescents seem
1) NOT ready to Date: Adolescents who are currently dating, 35% (119) reported that they have sexual experiences and among which 50% (60) of them do not use or not sure if they will use contraceptives. Overall, 17.2% (203) of adolescents studying in F.1 and F.2, 13.6% (257) studying in F. 3 to F.7 reported that they have sex experiences. Overall, 61.6% (124) of adolescents studying in F.1 and F.2, 56.8% (146) of adolescents studying in F. 3 to F. 7 do not or not sure if they will use contraceptives. 
2) NOT ready to be parents: 87% (2887) reported that they were not capable to be parents yet BUT among them 50.9% (1472) chose parenting when facing teenage pregnancy; 
3) NOT ready to face life choices: 83.3% (2671) considered that their future orientation was important BUT among them 51.9% (1389) chose parenting when facing teenage pregnancy; 86.8% (2783) contended that family and kinship is important BUT among them 24.2% (668) chose adoption. They have problems with Values particularly their internal beliefs and their self-identity, self-efficacy and their own future orientation when making decisions. 
Adolescents indicated a need and intention for guidance and directions from teachers and social workers, however, there is a discrepancy between expectation and our everyday practice. Our teenage-mothers are all overwhelmed by problems and pressures derived from the pregnancy without appropriate guidance and support ready-at hand. Resources from community have been scarce and far from adequate. The roles of parents, teachers and social workers are crucial yet unfulfilled. This gap indicated problem with our perceived roles as parents, teachers and social workers; this gap also exemplified a much larger problem with our sex education philosophically, conceptually and practically. 
These findings have considerable significance on the enlightenment on 1) formal education, 2) parenting and 3) social support. Sex education is more than teaching what we are (biological make-up) but who we are and how we behave during our courses of development. Sex education should not be only about sex because sexuality is more than sex. It includes values, health and safety, human development, physical intimacy, gender identity and sensuality. All these should be taught in formal school education starting from primary to ensure that all teens are prepared for their development and life choices. 
It alarms us that parents should be trained and be ready for any anticipatory guidance at home. Parents know not what to say and how to say. Parents are suggested to provide our teens with 5 core needs: Affirmation, Information, Values clarification, Limit setting, and Anticipatory guidance. 
Resources should be allocated to NGOs for sexuality education and all related supporting services including psychological support such as counseling; and practical support such as home for the pregnant girls. Last but not least, a partnership is called for: between families and schools; families and social workers.
Attachment
 
From right:
 Ms Lau Siu Cho, Mother's Choice 
 Dr S F Lin, Department of Psychology, CUHK 


 
