[title]The Evolutionary History of the SARS-coronavirus - the complete story[/title]

[date]30 January 2004[/date]


 The Evolutionary History of the SARS-coronavirus 
 - the complete story 
 
Researchers at the Chinese University of Hong Kong joined over 50 
 scientists from Mainland China and the United States to form the Chinese 
 SARS Molecular Epidemiology Consortium to study the complete evolutionary 
 history of the SARS-coronavirus during last year's SARS epidemic. This 
 project is partially supported by the Hong Kong Research Grants Council. 
 The results of the study are published today in the world renowned scientific 
 journal, Science. This research represents the most extensive 
 molecular epidemiological study of the SARS-coronavirus to-date. A total 
 of 63 SARS-coronavirus genomic sequences isolated from SARS patients 
 infected at various time points, from the beginning until the end, of 
 the epidemic were analysed. The viral genomic sequences were analysed 
 in combination with detailed epidemiological data to map the precise 
 landmarks of the evolution of the SARS-coronavirus. 
The 
 study revealed several key findings: 
1. 
 Continuous evolution 
The 
 analysis revealed that the SARS-coronavirus was mutating continuously 
 throughout the epidemic. The estimated mutation rate of the virus, 
 however, is one-third that of the virus responsible for the acquired 
 immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
2. 
 Active adaptation to the human host 
The 
 mutation rate of the virus was most rapid during the early part of 
 the epidemic between the time of the first emergence of SARS to the 
 first major outbreak in Guangdong Province. Thereafter, the mutation 
 rate slowed gradually. The highest rate of mutation is seen in the 
 part of the virus genome coding for the Spike protein, the component 
 of the virus which enables human cell entry. These data suggest that 
 during the early part of the epidemic, the SARS-coronavirus was under 
 significant pressure to change in order to become an efficient human 
 virus. 
3.
A surprising genotype emerged towards the end of the epidemic
Most 
 of the human SARS-coronavirus sequences differ from the sequences 
 of the coronavirus isolated from Himalayan palm civets by the lack 
 of 29 units of genetic code in one region of the virus. However, a 
 surprising finding of the present study was the isolation of a SARS-coronavirus 
 sequence that had a further deletion of 386 units of the genetic code 
 in the same region of the virus genome. This sequence was initially 
 found in 2 patients who were diagnosed with SARS at the North District 
 Hospital, Hong Kong, in May 2003. The same sequence was subsequently 
 found in a group of 15 SARS patients whose infections were inter-related. 
 This sequence represents the largest truncation in the SARS-coronavirus 
 genome that has been documented to date. 
Implications 
 of the study findings: 
1.
A blueprint for future outbreak predictions 
The 
 completed evolutionary map of the SARS-coronavirus provides a blueprint 
 for the prediction of the future sequence of events should SARS re-emerges. 
 This foresight would allow for the better planning of public health 
 control measures to prevent the occurrence of major outbreaks. 
2.
Encouraging news for vaccine development 
The 
 mutation rate of the SARS-coronavirus is shown to be moderate in comparison 
 with those rapidly-mutating viruses, such as the virus for AIDS. This 
 suggests that there is a greater likelihood that if vaccines are successfully 
 developed to prevent SARS infection, then they are more likely to 
 remain effective than vaccines for the more rapidly mutating viruses. 
 
3.
Implication for the development of diagnostic tests 
For 
 diagnostic tests to be effective for the detection of the different 
 strains of the SARS-coronaviruses, the tests should be developed to 
 target regions of the virus genome that are less likely to mutate. 
 
In conclusion, 
 this study pieces together the different chapters of the complete evolutionary 
 story of the SARS-coronavirus and represents a significant milestone 
 in the understanding of SARS. 
 

 
