[title]Dr. David Li Kwok-po Spoke on "A Banker's Perspective on Closer Integration with the Mainland"[/title]

[date]15 March 2006[/date]


 Dr. David Li Kwok-po Spoke on
 A Banker¡¦s Perspective on Closer Integration with the Mainland
 at the CUHK Faculty of Business Administration¡¦s Distinguished Speakers¡¦ Series 
 To celebrate the 40th Anniversary of the MBA Programmes, The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Business Administration organizes the Distinguished Speakers¡¦ Series, as the commencement of the series of celebration activities. The Distinguished Speakers¡¦ Series features three eminent local business leaders of the banking and financial sector in town. They will share with the CUHK¡¦s MBA alumni, students, professors and business partners their values, leadership style and insights on selected financial topics. The Series will feature two other talks by Dr. Vincent Cheng Hoi-chuen, Chairman of HSBC Ltd. on April 6 and Dr. Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority on April 20 respectively. 
Dr. Hon David Li Kwok-po, Chairman and Chief Executive of the Bank of East Asia Ltd., delivered a talk on A Banker¡¦s Perspective on Closer Integration with the Mainland to the alumni, students, professors and business partners of the Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong Kong at Conrad Hotel today.
The talk attracted more than 150 participants including CEOs, general managers, managing directors, directors, senior executives, analysts and experts of the banking and finance industry from renowned organizations like HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank, Hong Kong Monetary Authority and Bank of China. It was also well-attended by leaders of various industries and organizations, such as telecommunications, IT, marketing, human resources, property, public utilities and government bodies.
In Dr. Li¡¦s talk on A Banker¡¦s Perspective on Closer Integration with the Mainland, he addressed how we can prepare for Hong Kong's rise as the international financial centre for China. While much of Hong Kong's economy has already become tightly integrated with the Mainland, one notable exception remains - banking and finance. There is a need to develop a closer integration between Hong Kong and the Mainland in the banking and finance sector.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong established the first full-time MBA programme in 1966, followed by the first part-time MBA programme in 1977 and the first EMBA programme in 1993 in Hong Kong. For more than 40 years, the Faculty has nurtured over 3,800 MBA graduates, which is the largest contingent of any business school in Hong Kong, and many of them are key decision-makers in the business world.
Prof. Lee Tien-sheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business Administration said, The Distinguished Speakers¡¦ Series kicked off the 40th Anniversary Celebrations of our MBA Programmes. Together with our alumni, we are going to organize a series of celebration programmes to commemorate this historical moment. We are most honoured to have invited Dr. David Li to share his professional experience and values with our students, alumni and friends today.
Prof. Lee continued, Our MBA Programmes aim to offer innovative management education which features at combining global vision with local relevance. We are always committed to providing world-class education and research in business administration to cope with the needs of Hong Kong, the mainland and the international community. One of our main directions is to expand our China and global networks through connections with leading business schools. For example, in 2000, we launched an MBA Programme in Finance in collaboration with Tsinghua University in Beijing. In 2002, we launched the OneMBA, Global Executive MBA Program (an innovative EMBA programme offered in concert with five top-ranked business schools in Asia, Europe, North America and South America) and a co-operative MBA programme offered with the HEC School of Management in France. Recently in 2004 we launched an Executive MBA (China) Programme in Xian in collaboration with Xian Jiaotong University and in 2005, we launched an Executive MBA (Asia Pacific) Programme in Taipei in collaboration with National Sun Yat-sen University and Chang Gung University.
Following these innovations, the Faculty of Business Administration has received regional and international recognition. The Faculty was named the Best MBA School in East Asia by business magazine Asia Inc from 2003 to 2004. It was also ranked Number 1 in Asia-Pacific by the magazine in August 2002. The EMBA Programme ranked Top 15 worldwide in 2005 and the Number 1 independent programme in the Asia-Pacific from 2003 to 2005 for three consecutive years, and the Number 1 independent EMBA programme in Asia from 2001 to 2005 for five consecutive years by London-based Financial Times. The programme was also granted The Best EMBA Educational Organization Award by SmartFortune Magazine, a leading professional magazine in human resources in the Asia-Pacific region in December 2004 while Prof. Lee Tien-sheng also received the China Business School Dean Leadership Achievement Award from Smart Fortune Magazine.
 


 
