[title]Shenzhen and CU Signed Memorandum to Promote Shenzhen-Hong Kong Collaboration[/title]

[date]5 June 2006[/date]


 Shenzhen Government and the Chinese University Signed Memorandum
 to Promote Shenzhen-Hong Kong Collaboration
 Mr. Liu Yingli, Executive Vice-Mayor of the Shenzhen Municipal Government, led a delegation of around seventy to visit The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today. The delegation includes Shenzhen officials responsible for industrial, trade, educational, technological, manpower and financial affairs, as well as representatives from the advanced technology sector, higher education sector, and enterprises. 
On behalf of the Shenzhen Government and CUHK, Mr. Liu Yingli and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, signed a memorandum of cooperation. They agreed to promote together the collaboration between Shenzhen and Hong Kong in education, science research, training of talents, and the establishment of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Innovation Zone. 
Contents of the memorandum include:
 The Shenzhen Government and CUHK will develop a close partnership in higher education to nurture undergraduate, master and doctoral students. 
 The Shenzhen Government will recommend talents in medicine, science, education, engineering, and business administration to attend professional trainings at CUHK. 
 The Shenzhen Government will provide CUHK with physical space and other facilitations to set up a permanent organization in the Shenzhen Virtual University Science Park . 
 CUHK will cooperate with Shenzhen¡¦s institutions of higher education, including mutual visits of teachers and student exchange. 
 The Shenzhen Government will promote CUHK¡¦s research in Shenzhen through technology transfer and encourage Shenzhen enterprises to collaborate with CUHK in research and development. 
 Shenzhen and CUHK will cooperate to take part in key technology research projects of the nation. They will share research facilities and resources. 
 A committee with members from both sides will be set up to coordinate and implement the relevant tasks. 
Said Professor Lawrence Lau, We see increasing integration in business and trade between Hong Kong and Shenzhen in recent years. Further cooperation of the two cities, especially in technology research and exchange of talents, will strengthen the economic development of the Greater Pearl River Delta and bring about complementary advantages. As a comprehensive research university in Hong Kong , CUHK has the best research facilities and professional talents. CUHK and Shenzhen are only 20-minutes drive apart, giving us exceptional geographical advantage. We will foster collaboration with the Shenzhen Government for the establishment of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Innovation Zone and contribute to the development of the nation together. 
On the same occasion, Mr. Liu Yingli delivered a lecture on The Shenzhen-Hong Kong Innovation Zone, while Professor Lawrence Lau lectured on the Opportunities for Hong Kong-Shenzhen Cooperation. They shared valuable insights and analyzed how Shenzhen and Hong Kong can advance and mutually benefit through further cooperation. 


Mr. Liu Yingli, Executive Vice-Mayor of the Shenzhen Government and Professor Lawrence J. Lau, Vice-Chancellor of CUHK, signed a memorandum of cooperation.

Mr. Liu Yingli lectured on The Shenzhen-Hong Kong Innovation Zone. 
Professor Lawrence Lau lectured on the Opportunities for Hong Kong-Shenzhen Cooperation. 
 




 
