[title]Schools Against SARS[/title]

[date]14 April 2003[/date]


Schools Against SARS
 CUHK Launches Public Health Campaign for Schools 
 
When classes resume, school principals, teachers and students of primary 
 and secondary schools as well as their parents will need to be better 
 equipped to fight against Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong, drawing upon its medical expertise 
 and the experience gained in developing the world's first systematic 
 treatment protocol for SARS, has launched an educational campaign "Schools 
 Against SARS", targeting primary and secondary schools.
The campaign aims at educating 
 teachers and students on preventive measures against SARS, expressing 
 appreciation of medical professionals and fostering a positive attitude 
 and solidarity among Hong Kong people. Professor Kenneth Young, Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong said, "With the University's 
 expertise and experience gained in research and in successfully managing 
 the first wave of SARS outbreak, we feel that we have the duty to share 
 our knowledge with the community, especially the school sector. In fact, 
 early and resolute measures have contained problems on the CUHK campus 
 itself, despite the flow of staff and students to and from the Prince 
 of Wales Hospital. We hope that we can contribute in a small way to 
 the community's collective effort to fight SARS."
The campaign will pool 
 experts from CUHK School of Public Health, The CUHK Nethersole School 
 of Nursing and frontline clinicians. An educational video aiming at 
 preventive measures against SARS especially in the school setting and 
 promoting support among Hong Kong people will be produced. This video 
 will first be distributed on the web and then as VCDs; a pamphlet will 
 also be made available to primary and secondary schools. The video will 
 provide information about preventive measures against SARS, and health 
 tips and guidelines for schools to follow. It will also feature experience 
 sharing by clinicians and the latest developments in the medical sciences 
 in relation to SARS.
The campaign is solely 
 sponsored by the Eagle Star Insurance Group as part of its "Eagle Star 
 Shines" initiative. Mr Denny Chan, Director of Life Business, Eagle 
 Star Insurance Group, said at the press conference, "Eagle Star strongly 
 believes that children are the heart of our community. As a strong corporate 
 citizen of Hong Kong, we share a responsibility with the community to 
 help the children in every possible way during this uncertain health 
 situation. Through the programme, we hope to highlight that insurance 
 is more than just protection but also prevention, and to encourage people 
 to take precautions to ensure their well-being. It has been tailor-made 
 for school children, and will provide them with vital information on 
 essential precautions to take to prevent the contraction of atypical 
 pneumonia as well as other important health advice. This programme also 
 marks the latest "Eagle Star Shines" initiative."
The "School Against SARS" 
 campaign is supported by the Education and Manpower Bureau. Hong Kong 
 EdCity will provide technical support for the distribution of the video 
 on the web. Many primary and secondary schools have also rendered support 
 in the production of the video.
The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong is organizing a series of briefings on preventive measures 
 against SARS for primary and secondary schools. It is hoped that by 
 enhancing communication between medical professionals and educational 
 professionals, we will be able to build a healthier campus.
 Eagle Star Insurance 
 Group
Eagle Star Insurance Group 
 is one of the top 10 insurance companies in Hong Kong and a member of 
 the Zurich Financial Services Group. A one-stop insurer providing a 
 full range of life, non-life, wealth management and MPF plans to individuals 
 as well as corporate clients, the group's presence in Hong Kong dates 
 back to 1961 when it first began providing non-life commercial insurance 
 to local companies. With over 40 years' experience serving all sizes 
 of commercial business, Eagle Star understands customers' needs and 
 is dedicated to providing total business solutions to support their 
 business growth.
Eagle Star's parent company, 
 the Zurich Financial Services Group is rated as the world's 7th largest 
 insurance company worldwide and is a Fortune Global 100 company. The 
 Group is represented globally in some 60 countries, with more than 70,000 
 dedicated employees serving over 38 million customers. The Group achieves 
 gross premium volume of more than HK$485 billion as of 2002. The Group 
 is listed on the exchanges of Zurich and London. 
For more information about 
 Eagle Star Insurance Group, please click http://www.eaglestar.com.hk.

 
