[title]The School of Law of CUHK dedicates itself to Serving the Community


 

 

 [/title]

[date]9 November 2006[/date]


The School of Law of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 dedicates itself to Serving the Community
 
 The appearance of The Honourable Chief Justice Andrew Li as officiating guest and keynote speaker at the Dedication of the School of Law at The Chinese University of Hong Kong on Thursday 9 November 2006 underlines a very important day in the legal development of HKSAR. On this special day, the School of Law with its Founding group of students will be formally inaugurated.
Chief Justice Andrew Li, as head of the Court of Final Appeal, is the most influential legal figure in Hong Kong and the key to its commitment to the rule of law. In his address, Chief Justice Li describes the establishment of the School of Law as of momentous significance¡Kfor legal education in Hong Kong and as an affirmation by the community of the pivotal importance of the rule of law. Chief Justice Li also looks to the future of Hong Kong and the challenges it faces. These, he will say, include the rapid development in information technology, the enhanced expectations that citizens have of the institutions set up to serve them and the rapid development of the economy of Mainland China and the opportunities that will be presented for Hong Kong. The Chief Justice also stresses the need to equip new graduates with the necessary skills to enable them to cope with a fast changing world. In cautioning against blind allegiance to market forces and the pursuit of personal financial gain, the Chief Justice looks forward to graduates who possess true professional skills with an understanding of the values underlying the rule of law and a concern for the public good.
Dedication Day will be a remarkable occasion for Hong Kong. Distinguished guests from around the world are coming to share the excitement as well as to participate in the Ceremony itself. Looking forward to the celebrations, The University will be graced by the world¡¦s greatest legal minds. In addition to the finest from Hong Kong, the School is being honoured by the attendance of world-famous lawyers from abroad, friends and supporters who will add joy and friendship to a day of pomp and glory. There will be a wide range of activities including a Law School Open House, Public Lectures by Justice Annabelle Bennett and Professor Christopher Forsyth, a China Education Forum with Mainland Deans and formal and informal events throughout the week at the University.
The formal Dedication Ceremony will also be marked by the conferment of Honorary Professorships on three of the most distinguished lawyers in the Common Law world. The three recipients of Honorary Professorships are: Dr. The Honourable Sir TL Yang, GBM, JP; Professor Sir David Williams, QC, DL; and The Right Honourable The Lord Woolf of Barnes.
 As Chief Justice in Hong Kong, Sir TL Yang played a key role in the creation of Hong Kong¡¦s post-1997 framework and the Basic Law and is well-known for his introduction of the use of Chinese into the courts. 
 Sir David Williams is one of the world¡¦s leading scholars in Public Law and an adviser to many governments. A former Chancellor of the University of Cambridge, and now Vice-Chancellor Emeritus, Sir David¡¦s writings established many of the foundational principles that underpin freedom of assembly and freedom of expression in a democratic society.
 Lord Woolf of Barnes, a former Chief Justice of England and Wales, and currently a non-permanent member of Hong Kong¡¦s Court of Final Appeal, is the best-known lawyer in the common law world and has been responsible for making civil justice more efficient, less complex and more accessible to ordinary citizens.
 The Director of the School, Professor Mike McConville, said: It is especially befitting that the University has given recognition to three such distinguished legal luminaries because all of them, apart from their glittering careers and personal distinction, have been deeply concerned with the values of civil society and the responsibility of all lawyers to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable members of society. 
At the Dedication Ceremony, distinguished guests representing various branches of the legal profession and the institutions of government and higher education will place items of symbolic significance into the School¡¦s Chest which will then be kept on display in the School.
 The Honourable Chief Justice Andrew Li will place a barrister¡¦s wig in the Chest symbolising the commitment of the judiciary to protect the rights of members of society by upholding standards of justice.
 The Honourable Wong Yan Lung, Secretary for Justice, will place a copy of the Basic Law in the Chest symbolizing commitment to the rule of law, one of the hallmarks of a free society.
 Professor The Honourable Arthur Li, Secretary for Education and Manpower, will present a scroll bearing the names of the Founding Students of the School of Law symbolizing the confidence that the Education and Manpower Bureau has shown in The Chinese University of Hong Kong by entrusting to the new School of Law the education of many generations of our young people. 
 Michael Stone, The Secretary-General of the University Grants Committee will place a copy of the Academic Development Plan symbolizing the planning effort that went into founding the School of Law and the unwavering support that the School has received from the University Grants Committee throughout this endeavour.
 Philip Dykes, SC, Chairman of the Bar Association of Hong Kong will place the Bar Association Crest into the Chest to symbolise the close relationship between practising barristers and the School of Law.
 Peter Lo, President of the Law Society of Hong Kong will place the Law Society Plate into the Chest to symbolise the close relationship between practising solicitors and the School of Law.
 Dr Edgar Cheng, Chairman of the University Council will place in the Chest a copy of the Council Minutes which endorsed the setting up of the School and which symbolises the commitment of the whole University to its newest Faculty.
 The Dedication Ceremony will also be blessed with other distinguished guests from around the world emphasising the significance of the occasion and the increasingly international character of law. Guests include: Sir Anthony Mason, former Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia and presently non-Permanent member of Hong Kong¡¦s Court of Final Appeal; The Honourable Mr Justice Bokhary, Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal and Chairman of the Academic Board of the School¡¦s professional training programme; Professor Wu Zhipan of Beijing University; Robert Allcock, Solicitor-General of the Hong Kong SAR; Justice Annabelle Bennett from Australia; Professor Christopher Forsyth, Professor of Public Law, University of Cambridge; Elsie Leung Oi-sie, JP, former Secretary for Justice, Hong Kong SAR; and delegations from Mainland prominent law schools including: Dean Wang Chenguang and Dean Wang Zhenmin of Tsinghua University; Dean Zhao Bingzhi, Beijing Normal University; President He, East China University of Political Science and Law; Dean Nanshen Sun, Fudan University; and Dean Lui Heng, Sun Yat-sen University.
 



 
 

 
 


 
