[title]Senior Research Fellowships of Croucher Foundation[/title]

[date]2005-2006[/date]

 Cum MOU Signing with INRIA

 




 16 March 2005
 Senior Research Fellowships of Croucher Foundation 2005-2006
 Cum MOU Signing with INRIA
 -- Three CUHK Scholars Awarded Fellowships
 
A total of eight top research academics from four local universities 
 were presented the prestigious Senior Research Fellowship of The Croucher 
 Foundation today (March 16), in recognition of their outstanding research. 
 Awards were presented by Mr Andrew K N Li, Chief Justice of the Court 
 of Final Appeal of The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to 
 these eight distinguished individuals.
The 
 Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 
 1997/98 academic year. The value of each Senior Research Fellowship 
 is about US$100,000. It is awarded to local academics who have excelled 
 in scientific research work. In recognition of their success and to 
 encourage their further achievement in their given fields, funds will 
 be awarded to the respective institution for recruiting an academic 
 to take over the fellow's duties for the period of the fellowship. 
 The fellow will then be relieved from teaching tasks for half year 
 or one year and in turn can devote more time and effort to research 
 work. Each winner will also receive a cash award of HK$40,000.
Of 
 the eight recipients of the fellowships awarded this year, three academics 
 are from The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), two from the 
 University of Hong Kong (HKU), two from The Hong Kong University of 
 Science and Technology (HKUST) and one from the City University of 
 Hong Kong (CityU). They are:
 
 1. Professor ZHOU Xunyu, Department of Systems 
 Engineering and Engineering Management, CUHK
 2. Professor WEI Juncheng, Department 
 of Mathematics, CUHK
 3. Professor XIA Keqing, Department of Physics, 
 CUHK
 4. Professor Irene NG Oi-Lin, Department of Pathology, HKU
 5. Professor Joseph Sriyal Malik PEIRIS, Department of Microbiology, 
 HKU
 6. Professor Maria LI LUNG, Department of Biology, HKUST
 7. Dr Hannah XUE Hong, Department of Biochemistry, HKUST
 8. Professor LI Ping, Department of Electronic Engineering, CityU
Among 
 the recipients, Professor Irene NG Oi-Lin and Professor Joseph Sriyal 
 Malik PEIRIS, both from the University of Hong Kong, were awarded 
 the Medical Research Fellowships. This is the fourth time the Medical 
 Research Fellowship was awarded since its launch in 1998.
At 
 the Ceremony, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between The 
 Croucher Foundation and the Institut National de Recherche en Informatique 
 et Automatique (INRIA), a leading French technological institution 
 renowned for its research and development expertise in the field of 
 information, communication science and technology.
Under 
 the terms of this MOU, both sides agree to strengthen relationship 
 between Hong Kong and France by selecting outstanding young scientists 
 from Hong Kong to gain exposure and experiences at doctoral or postdoctoral 
 levels in INRIA research institutes in France.
INRIA 
 will ensure that those selected to maximize their opportunities by 
 guiding and assigning them to the best laboratories in their specialized 
 fields under the INRIA system. The Croucher Foundation will financially 
 support selected Hong Kong candidates with relevant fees, airfare, 
 living expenses and allowances during their entire period of study 
 in France.
A 
 spokesman for the Croucher Foundation said there was plenty of room 
 for the development of scientific relationships between Hong Kong 
 and France, and indeed the European Union. Such a relationship will 
 bring about long-term collaborative opportunities and experiences 
 such as technology transfer are of direct relevance in Hong Kong's 
 developments. As a cosmopolitan city Hong Kong has everything to gain 
 also culturally. 


 
 


 
