[title]University College London visits the School of Law of CUHK[/title]

[date]12 April 2006[/date]


 University College London visits the School of Law of 
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 Professor Malcolm Grant, President and Provost of University College London and Lord Woolf of Barnes, University College London¡¦s Chair of Council visited the School of Law at The Chinese University of Hong Kong on 4th April 2006. Their visit marks a significant development in the establishment of a network of global links as Hong Kong¡¦s newest School of Law positions itself internationally as a major centre of legal research, and scholarship. The establishment of this strong intellectual and academic partnership between the School of Law and University College London will benefit the future of legal education in Hong Kong and the School of Law¡¦s contribution to the wider community by providing important international links for Hong Kong students and scholars.
Founded in 1826 by an association of liberal gentlemen, University College London puts a particular emphasis on liberal and enlightened thought that has much in common with the vision of The School of Law at The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The University College London Faculty of Law¡¦s emphasis upon research into the development of law and its influence on public policy matches the School of Law¡¦s commitment to looking behind the law to its underlying values, purposes and policies. Both institutions share a common interest in acknowledging the impact of law across national boundaries and the importance of comparative and empirical work in the context of the social, political and economic environment.
University College London is a pioneer in the teaching of law, medicine and engineering and it is a privilege for the School of Law at The Chinese University of Hong Kong to develop close links with an institution that is acknowledged to be one of the best universities in the world. 
Professor Grant and Lord Woolf¡¦s visit will therefore strengthen the existing links between University College London and The Chinese University of Hong Kong and provide the School of Law with the foundation for extensive international scholarly and student links.
The School of Law is honoured to welcome Professor Grant and Lord Woolf and the furtherance of a common desire to develop the study of law across national boundaries and to promote an ethical understanding of the role of law in society and a broad perspective of Western and Chinese legal cultures. 

 
  Professor Lawrence J. Lau (1st from right), Vice-Chancellor and Professor Mike McConville (1st from left), Director, School of Law, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, with Professor Malcolm Grant (2nd from left), President and Provost of University College London and Lord Woolf of Barnes (2nd from right), University College London¡¦s Chair of Council.
 
 
 
 
  


 
