[title]Highest Honour for World Famous Mathematican Yau Shing Tung[/title]

[date]21 March 2004[/date]


 Highest Honour for World Famous Mathematican Yau Shing Tung 
 
Professor Yau Shing Tung, Distinguished Professor-at-Large and Director 
 of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong will receive the 2003 International Scientific and Technological 
 Cooperation Award for his important contributions towards the development 
 of science and technology in China.
Professor 
 Yau is a world-renowned mathematician and the only Chinese Fields Medallist. 
 Besides his remarkable achievements in mathematical sciences, Professor 
 Yau has been devoting much of his time and energy in promoting mathematical 
 and scientific education in China and Hong Kong in particular. Professor 
 Yau has served as the Director of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong and is very active in fostering 
 interdisciplinary research, with emphasis in physics, biotechnology 
 and business and industry. The Institute is also active in nurturing 
 young mathematicians. Professor Yau together with the Department of 
 Mathematics of the Chinese University organize annually the Enrichment 
 Programme for Mathematics Talents, which provides secondary students 
 opportunities to learn mathematics under the guidance of great masters. 
 Recently, Professor Yau has concentrated on training young mathematicians 
 in China. He found the Institute of Mathematics at Peking University, 
 which encourages talented people to involve in mathematics research 
 in China. Professor Yau was among the first few foreign academicians 
 of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The 
 International Scientific and Technological Cooperation Award is one 
 of the five prestigious State Science and Technology Awards organised 
 by the State Council, which is conferred to selected few scientists 
 who have made important contributions toward the development of science 
 and technology in China in fields such as science, technology, engineering, 
 agriculture and medicine. Great scientists who have received this award 
 include Professor Chern Shiing-shen and Professor Yang Chun-ning. The 
 other four awards are State Technological Invention Award, State Natural 
 Science Award, State Scientific and Technological Progress Award and 
 State Pre-eminent Science and Technology Award.
The 
 award presentation ceremony will take place on 24 March in Beijing. 
 Professor Yau will deliver a speech on "Mathematics and its role in 
 Science and Technology". 
 

 
