[title]CUHK No-Fall Mobile Van offers outreach fall prevention programme for HK elderly[/title]

[date]17 May 2005[/date]


CUHK 
 No-Fall Mobile Van offers outreach fall prevention programme
 for HK elderly 
 
A study of The Chinese University of Hong Kong in 2004 indicated 
 140,000 elderly suffered from falling annually in Hong Kong and 
 40%, out of them were repeated fallers. The consequences of fall 
 could be serious, resulting in fracture and other lethal injuries 
 like head injuries and intra-cranial haemorrhage. There were 40,000 
 elderly consulted Accidence and Emergency Departments as a result 
 of fall in 2003, and 30% of them had fractures. Among the fracture 
 cases, one third of them fractured their hip. Hip fractures are 
 actually one of the major causes of disability and long term hospitalization 
 among elderly, and its mortality rate in one year could be as high 
 as 30%. Hip fracture is also a huge financial burden to the society, 
 it is estimated that there is HK$1.3 billion spent on treating and 
 rehabilitating hip fracture cases each year. 
The 
 Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology at The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong, working hand-in-hand with various community service 
 providers, has started a community-based fall prevention programme 
 for the elderly since 2000. The programme includes talks and seminars, 
 handing out publicity materials, offering fall risk assessment services 
 and referring the elderly to the Fall Prevention Clinic located 
 in the Jockey Club Centre for Osteoporosis Care and Control of The 
 Chinese University of Hong Kong. More than 15,000 elderly have joined 
 these programmes. However, various obstacles deprive the elderly 
 of their access to the programme, such as the lack of mobility and 
 companionship. Therefore, the majority of the elderly who have a 
 high risk of falling are still left unattended. This may probably 
 explain why there is such a high prevalence of falling among the 
 aged group. 
With 
 the generous donation from the SK Yee Medical Foundation, the Department 
 of Orthopaedics and Traumatology launches the no-fall mobile van 
 today. This van is to provide outreach fall prevention programme 
 for the elderly with limited mobility. A team of medical staff, 
 specialist nurses and physiotherapists from the Department of Orthopaedics 
 and Traumatology will broad the van and bring the fall prevention 
 services to the remote areas in Hong Kong including the Lantau Island. 
 In collaborating with the Caritas Hong Kong, all the community-dwelling 
 elderly are welcome to make prior appointments with the no-fall 
 mobile van services through the Caritas centre nearby. 
"The 
 launching of the mobile van services embarks on a new era for the 
 fall prevention programme. I would like to thank the S K Yee Medical 
 Foundation and the Caritas Hong Kong in particular for making this 
 mobile fall prevention services possible. With the no-fall mobile 
 van, I believe more Hong Kong elderly in need can benefit from the 
 fall prevention programme," Professor Fok Tai Fai, Dean of Medicine 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong said. 
The 
 outreach team will bring the one-stop fall risk assessment services 
 to the elderly through the no-fall mobile van. Each of the elderly 
 will go through a series of assessments on balance, eyesight, bone 
 density and blood pressure. The assessment results will be analyzed 
 by the computer instantly to assess the potential risk of fall. 
 Consultation will be given to the elderly and each of them will 
 receive a fall assessment hand book. Those who are identified as 
 the high risk group will be referred to the corresponding Caritas 
 centres for follow up, e.g. home visits, referring them to attend 
 talks and seminars, teaching them fall prevention exercises. 
"This 
 state-of-the-art mobile van certainly helps expand our fall prevention 
 service. With our dedicated outreach team and the support from the 
 Caritas Hong Kong, this no-Fall mobile van can reach the elderly 
 who are living in the remote areas or with limited mobility. We 
 hope that more fall prevention work can be done and thus lower the 
 prevalence of fall among the elderly in Hong Kong," Professor Leung 
 Kwok Sui, Chairman of the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatalogy 
 of The Chinese University of Hong Kong said. 
Enquiry 
 Hotline: 8120-0760 
 
 



 
