[title]CUHK's Study on Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong and Shenzhen[/title]

[date]23 May 2005[/date]


CUHK's 
 Study on Entrepreneurship in Hong Kong and Shenzhen Finds 
 Alternative Financing as Key Resources for New Entrepreneursy 
 
The Center for Entrepreneurship at The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong and the Shenzhen Academy of Social Science in a recent collaborative 
 research project find that Hong Kong's total entrepreneurial activity 
 in 2004 is still among the lowest in the world. 
The 
 research is part of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM), an 
 international consortium of some 150 researchers in more than 40 
 countries who periodically poll entrepreneurship worldwide. GEM 
 is an international research project founded by leading scholars 
 from Babson College and the London Business School in 1999 to measure, 
 on an annual basis, entrepreneurship around the world. 
The 
 2004 GEM sampled 147,780 adults worldwide and over 1,300 experts 
 were interviewed. The Hong Kong team is led by Professor Bee-Leng 
 Chua, Director of the CUHK's Center for Entrepreneurship and composed 
 of Professor Hugh Thomas, Professor Siu-tong Kwok and Professor 
 Kevin Au, Associate Directors of the Centre, as well as professors 
 David Ahlstrom and Shige Makino from CUHK's Faculty of Business 
 Administration. The Shenzhen team is led by Le Zheng, Director of 
 the Shenzhen Academy of Social Sciences, with team members Wang 
 Weili and Dong Xiaoyuan. Researchers conducted 2,000 phone interviews 
 each in Hong Kong and Shenzhen during May and June 2004. They also 
 interviewed 47 experts. 
Using 
 a measure called total entrepreneurship activity (TEA) which counts 
 the percent of adults in the population involved in starting new 
 companies over the last three years, the study shows that Hong Kong, 
 with 3% of the population involved in new start-ups is among the 
 least entrepreneurial in the world and trails well behind our twin 
 city of Shenzhen (11.6%). These are stable from year to year. Among 
 the 35 economies participating in the exercise, Hong Kong ranks 
 33. On the other hand, Shenzhen, which ranks 10, is ahead of some 
 developed countries in the world. This year's most entrepreneurial 
 economies are Peru, Uganda, Ecuador, Jordan and New Zealand. The 
 five most entrepreneurial economies last year were Uganda, Venezuela, 
 Argentina, Chile and New Zealand. 
Hong 
 Kong and Shenzhen are similar in some ways. Relative to economies 
 in their respective income groups, both Hong Kong and Shenzhen have 
 low TEAs. Hong Kong has a low percent of the population starting 
 businesses to take advantage of opportunities, while Shenzhen has 
 a low percent of the population starting businesses for lack of 
 a better job. The more educated and richer a person is, the greater 
 is the chance he or she will start a business to take advantage 
 of opportunities. 
Barriers 
 to early stage entrepreneurial activity are Hong Kong's high cost 
 base, lack of entrepreneurial education and inadequate links between 
 RandD and the market retard entrepreneurial environment for business. 
 Shenzhen's lack of educational resources and lack of social cohesion 
 and trust inhibit entrepreneurship. 
Financing 
 continues to be an area for improvement. Informal investment is 
 the largest source of financing except the owner's savings in a 
 startup. Informal investors provide the capital that allows new 
 startups to grow until they are large enough to qualify for formal 
 financing. The study finds that informal investment in Hong Kong 
 and Shenzhen is very similar. Family ties are less important than 
 social ties in informal investment in both cities. Corporate entrepreneurship 
 in the two cities is also quite similar to each other but their 
 levels are low by international standards. Hong Kong companies' 
 management structures encourage more autonomy than Shenzhen companies 
 and so are more entrepreneurial. Shenzhen companies are more willing 
 to pursue opportunities regardless of resource constraints and are 
 far more focused on rapid growth than Hong Kong companies. 
To 
 improve entrepreneurial activity, the research team at CUHK recommends 
 that the government focus on incubating an environment for entrepreneurship 
 and launch programmes with a long-term horizon. In Hong Kong, practitioners 
 should be involved more in existing Hong Kong Government programmes 
 and more effort should be made to help young entrepreneurs. In Shenzhen, 
 the Government can set up service organizations for SME enterprises 
 and credit information systems. Increasing corporate entrepreneurship 
 should also yield increased long term profits for both cities. Complementarities 
 of resources and infrastructures, logistics, social systems and 
 information should be exploited for mutual benefit. 
The 
 GEM Hong Kong and Shenzhen Forum will be held on 24 May 2005 from 
 11:45 am to 5 pm at JW Marriott Hotel Hong Kong. The forum will 
 address two issues critical to entrepreneurial activity: corporate 
 entrepreneurship and alternative financing for new ventures. Apart 
 from the HK Research Team, other speakers will include Mr. Patrick 
 Tse, Head of Financial Services Practice in Greater China from Booz 
 Allen Hamilton; Mr. Andreas Wente, CEO of Philips Electronics, Asia 
 Pacific; Mr. K.O. Chia, venture capitalist and former Executive 
 VP of Walden International (HK); Mr. Ben Ng, Secretary-General of 
 Monte Jade Science and Technology Association of Hong Kong and Mr. 
 Joshua Lau, founder and CEO of YesAsia.com. 
The 
 "GEM Hong Kong Country Report" is supported by HK$1.605 million 
 from the SME Development Fund run by Hong Kong SAR Government's 
 Trade and Industry Department, the Chinese Executives Club of the 
 Hong Kong Management Association and CUHK's Asia-Pacific Institute 
 of Business. 
 
 



 
