[title]CUHK Receives Donation from Merrill Lynch To Facilitate Academic Exchange in Greater China Region[/title]

[date]5 January 2005[/date]


 CUHK Receives Donation from Merrill Lynch
 To Facilitate Academic Exchange in Greater China Region 
 
Graduate business students from The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 (CUHK), Peking University in Beijing and Taiwan Chengchi University 
 will join the Merrill Lynch Applied Finance Joint Project Scheme 
 with a donation of US$165,000 (approximately HK$1.3 million) from 
 Merrill Lynch to facilitate academic exchange and encourage practical 
 experience among graduate business students in the Greater China region.
This 
 project is part of a new Master's degree course to be introduced at 
 all three universities in the first quarter of 2005. Students of the 
 CUHK's Master of Science Programme in Finance will participate in 
 this project. Conceptualized and sponsored by Merrill Lynch, the project 
 aims to provide a platform for graduate business students of the three 
 cities to collaborate and enhance understanding of business and culture 
 in the Greater China region. The elective course offered by the MSc 
 Programme in Finance at CUHK, "Cases in Corporate Finance", will be 
 taught by Mr. Samuel Poon, currently the Managing Director of Merrill 
 Lynch and a seasoned investment banker.
Professor 
 So Wai Man Raymond, Director of the CUHK's Master of Science Programme 
 in Finance said, "We are very pleased to receive the donation from 
 Merrill Lynch, one of the world's leading financial management and 
 advisory companies. I believe this is a very invaluable opportunity 
 for our graduate students to collaborate with other students in the 
 Greater China region and learn more practical business knowledge and 
 experience."
The 
 new course, "Cases in Corporate Finance", will focus on the application 
 of corporate finance concepts and augment instruction on theoretical 
 tools. Students will attain a clearer understanding of the skills 
 required in corporate finance services and acquire insights into the 
 role and function of international finance professionals.
"Under 
 the joint project scheme, about 120 graduate business students from 
 the three cities will be divided into 40 teams comprising one student 
 from each of the three universities. The teams will develop strategic 
 plans for selected companies in Greater China to increase shareholder 
 value. They will gather in Hong Kong this April to start developing 
 their strategies. The panel of judges, including Faculty members from 
 each participating university as well as finance professionals from 
 Merrill Lynch, will select ten case winners and one grand-prize winner 
 with cash prizes to be donated by Merrill Lynch," said Professor So.
The 
 Faculty of Business Administration of The Chinese University of Hong 
 Kong launched the Master of Science Programme in Finance in 1996. 
 With the aim to provide comprehensive and quality graduate training 
 in finance, the programme equips the students with a thorough grasp 
 of the conceptual framework of modern finance theory. The programme 
 draws upon the research and teaching of a business school that has 
 always been recognized as world class in international rankings. 




 
