[title]Distinguished CUHK Scholar Named Fellow of American Statistical Association[/title]

[date]10 August 2004[/date]


 Distinguished CUHK Scholar Named Fellow of American Statistical 
 Association 
 
Professor Lee Sik Yum, Professor of Statistics of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong has been selected as a 2004 Fellow of the American Statistical 
 Association (ASA) for his outstanding contributions to the statistical 
 profession. 
Founded 
 in 1841, the ASA is a scientific and educational society which aims 
 to promoting excellence in the application of statistical science to 
 the frontiers of science, from biological to socio-economic to the physical 
 sciences. With over 16,000 members in the US and overseas, this most 
 respected association in the statistical profession grants a selected 
 few outstanding scholars and professionals around the world the honours 
 of fellowship each year. 
Graduated 
 from CUHK with a Bachelor degree in Science, Professor Lee obtained 
 his Master of Art degree in Mathematics and PhD in Biostatistics from 
 the University of California, Los Angeles in 1974 and 1977 respectively. 
 He joined CUHK in 1977 and helped found the Department of Statistics 
 at CUHK. Professor Lee served as Chairman of the Department from 1986 
 to 1992 and was promoted to Professor of Statistics in 1996. 
Professor 
 Lee was selected fellow of ASA for his outstanding works in research 
 and in promoting the development of statistical profession. He has devoted 
 much of his energy and time in promoting the development in statistical 
 profession and academic exchanges in the Chinese community. As a senior 
 fellow of the International Chinese Statistical Association, he was 
 presented the Distinguished Service Award in 1993 due to his contributions. 
 Professor Lee was also one of the founding members of the Hong Kong 
 Statistical Society and served as its President in 1992/93. He has also 
 been an elected member of the International Statistical Institute since 
 1986. 
Professor 
 Lee's research covers a wide range of topics and emphasizes both the 
 advancement of theory and the application. He has made significant contributions 
 to the statistical knowledge with his works in theories, methodologies 
 and applications of Structural Equation Models and Latent Variable Models. 
 He has successfully applied these Structural Equation Models to the 
 understanding of problems in psychology, sociology, medicine, marketing 
 research, education and finance. His current research involves the developing 
 of more accurate statistical models and methods in the analyses of complicated 
 data in behavioral science, medicine, education and finance. Professor 
 Lee has published more than 130 articles in prestigious international 
 academic journals. He has served as Associate Editor for Statistic 
 Sinica, and is currently Associate Editor of Computational Statistics 
 and Data Analysis and two most prominent academic journals in psychometrics, 
 the British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology 
 and Psychometrika. 
Professor 
 Lee Sik Yum 
 Professor of Statistics of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
 T 
 
 

 
