[title]CUHK Institute of Chinese Medicine Awarded NIH Grant For Advanced Research on Anti-Cancer Herbs[/title]

[date]13 May 2005[/date]


CUHK Institute of Chinese Medicine Awarded NIH Grant For Advanced Research on Anti-Cancer Herbs
 The Institute of Chinese Medicine (ICM) of The Chinese University 
 of Hong Kong (CUHK) has been awarded a sponsorship from the National 
 Institutes of Health (NIH), USA for the establishment of a collaborative 
 Research Center for Botanical Immuno-modulators with Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
 Cancer Center (MSKCC) at New York to undergo advanced research on 
 anticancer herbs. 
This 
 center will investigate botanicals with reported ability to modulate 
 immune function and their relevance for the treatment of cancers. 
 This is the first time that the NIH supports collaboration between 
 US medical institute and non-local institute to establish research 
 centre targeting at potentially immunomodulating herbs good for 
 cancer patients. 
The 
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center is a highly reputable centre 
 for cancer treatment and research. Supported by the Rockefeller 
 Foundation and linked with the Columbia University and Cornell University, 
 it has established an integrated clinic offering medium medical 
 services as well as alternative medicine (including Chinese medicine 
 and acupunctures) for cancer patients. Since 2000, it has started 
 a few projects using Chinese Medicine as adjuvant therapy for cancer 
 patients receiving standard therapy. 
The 
 collaborative botanical research center is an innovative proposal 
 from Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, which has invited the 
 ICM to support. Research will be conducted to advance the scientific 
 knowledge about the safety, effectiveness, and mechanisms of action 
 of anticancer botanicals. The major area of interest will be on 
 the immunomodulating influences, either directly supporting the 
 patient consumers, indirectly through a support of the already developed 
 resistance, or both. ICM is responsible to draw up the list of potentially 
 anticancer herbs, acquire quality samples, further authenticate 
 on the quality, maintain the consistency and later, extracting the 
 active components. MSKCC will work on the biological effects of 
 the selected herbs to see the biological standards of action on 
 immunological modulation. 
CUHK 
 was the only institution from Hong Kong being awarded the first 
 grant for partnership research by National Institutes of Health 
 which the ICM being involved in a research consortium to systematically 
 evaluate the quality, safety, efficacy and basic science mechanism 
 of herbal medicines in treating cancer. The focus is to identify, 
 systematically procure, extract, characterize and test with the 
 new and advanced high-throughput screening methodologies of promising 
 herbal medicines for cancer. 
Professor 
 Leung Ping Chung, Chairman of the Management Committee of the ICM 
 said, "This new partnership is another recognition that Hong Kong 
 is well-qualified to have high achievement in Chinese medicine research. 
 We hope the synergism with the prestigious Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
 Cancer Centre will foster the advancement of Chinese medicine research 
 in Hong Kong and let the Hong Kong Government be more confident 
 in Chinese medicine research." 
 Dr. 
 Barrie Cassileth (center), Chief, Integrative Medicine, Memorial 
 Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, discussed the collaboration on Research 
 Center for Botanical Immuno-modulators with Professor Leung Ping 
 Chung, Chairman of the Management Committee of the ICM (left) 
 and Professor Fung Kwok Pui, Vice-Chairman (right). 
 
 


 
