[title]SHKP and Kwok family donate $30 million to promote mental health with CUHK[/title]

[date]3 August 2006[/date]


 SHKP and Kwok family donate $30 million
 to promote mental health with CUHK 
 Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP) and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today (August 3) announced the SHKP Mental Health Alliance, a major mental health initiative with $30 million in funding from the company and the Kwok family. The Alliance will focus on public education, prevention and treatment, research and experimental study and professional training. This will be a comprehensive programme to promote better mental health in Hong Kong, raise public awareness and understanding of the problem and counter discrimination against sufferers to facilitate effective treatment.
The Alliance will be overseen by Professor Fanny Cheung, Chair of The CUHK Department of Psychology. The programme will marshal the resources of CUHK¡¦s Department of Psychology Clinical and Health Psychology Centre under Professor Patrick Leung, Department of Social Work Family and Group Practice Research Centre under Professor Joyce Ma and Faculty of Medicine Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center under Professor Sing Lee. The two-year programme will see the three units cooperating on series of activities to promote comprehensive mental health education, provide evidence-based prevention and treatment and expand training for experimental study teams and frontline practitioners.
SHKP Vice Chairman and Managing Director Raymond Kwok said he was quite surprised by the statistic that one in every five people in Hong Kong exhibits symptoms of mental health problems. He is also concerned about a number of recent incidents in the news connected to stress and mental illness, such as the recent group suicide and family violence. Mr Kwok said: I hope our Mental Health Alliance will take the lead in raising awareness among organizations and individuals and work towards more effective prevention and treatment of mental illness and eliminating the associated stigma, so that Hong Kong can be a healthier, happier place for everyone.
CUHK Vice Chancellor Lawrence J Lau said: Thanks to the munificence of Sun Hung Kai Properties and the Kwok family, The Chinese University of Hong Kong today launches yet another important service for the local community. We are confident that this concerted effort will contribute to the enhancement of mental health in Hong Kong, and together we shall build a happier and more harmonious society.
Programme Director Fanny Cheung said: Research by academics at The Chinese University has found that the Chinese people generally have little understanding of mental health, and they often manifest psychological problems in the form of physical symptoms. They do not know how to access mental health services, and there is a strong stigma attached to mental illness. All these factors tend to deter people from seeking the help they need. 
The Mental Health Alliance will stage a variety of activities including seminars, exhibitions, shopping mall road shows and television and radio programmes to enhance public awareness and understanding of mental health. The Alliance will also produce an informational web site, magazine features and audio / video materials. In addition, professionals will deliver seminars for schools and organizations. The initiative will also include a treatment handbook and training sessions for practitioners, plus research into improving the prevention and treatment of mental illness in Hong Kong.

From left:
 Professor Patrick Leung, Director of Clinical and Health Psychology Centre, Department of Psychology, CUHK
 Professor Fanny Cheung, Director of SHKP Mental Health Alliance and Chairperson of Department of Psychology, C UHK
 Dr Raymond Kwok, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Sun Hung Kai Properties
 Professor Lawrence J Lau, Vice-Chancellor, CUHK 
 Professor Joyce Ma, Director of Family and Group Practice Research Centre, Department of Social Work, CUHK
 Professor Lee Sing, Director of Hong Kong Mood Disorders Centre, Department of Psychiatry, CUHK 
  


 
