[title]Nobel Laureate Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi delivers the second Centenary Distinguished Lecture[/title]
[date]22 Nov 2010[/date]
 


"HIV/AIDS - a Scientific and Human Adventure in Response to an Emerging Epidemic"
As part of its 100th anniversary celebrations in 2011-2012, the University of Hong Kong (HKU) is proud to present a series of Centenary Distinguished Lectures. The second lecture was delivered today (November 22) by Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, recipient of Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine in 2008.
300 audiences attended the lecture by Professor Barré-Sinoussi entitled "HIV/AIDS - a Scientific and Human Adventure in Response to an Emerging Epidemic" at HKU Rayson Huang Theatre. During the lecture, Professor Barré-Sinoussi talked about the emergence of the HIV in 1980's. and how the scientists and human endeavored to fight against this quick spreading disease. She also reviewed the advancement of research in HIV prevention and treatments. The lecture was followed by a panel discussion moderated by Prof Lee Sum-ping, Dean of HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, with Dr. Leong Che-hung, Council Chairman of HKU and Chairman of Hong Kong AIDS Foundation, Dr. Robert Peckham, Co-Director of Centre for Humanities and Medicine, HKU, and Ms Loretta Wong, Chief Executive of AIDS Concern as panelists.
In the lecture, Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi reminded us that HIV ranks second in the list of death caused by infectious disease. She noticed that there is less information about the disease now when compare with the past, thus she called for more public education on AIDS which will help to increase public awareness, and as a result, contribute to the prevention of the disease.
During the media interview, Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi also expressed her excitement about Pope Benedict's shift in position for saying that condom use is acceptable to reduce the risk of infection with HIV. She revealed that she wrote to the Pope to ask for his reconsideration about using condom, after the Pope's visit to Africa last year in March, saying the distribution of condoms could not help overcome the spreading of AIDS. She found the Pope's latest statement "a wonderful" news to her.
On Tuesday (November 23), senior secondary school students and medical undergraduates will exchange views with Professor Barré-Sinoussi in an activity called ‘Lunch with a Nobel Laureate', which has been set up as an extension of the Centenary Distinguished Lecture. The activity aims to help the students to broaden their horizons by meeting face-to-face with some of the most brilliant minds in the world today.
The six Centenary Distinguished Lectures, to be held during 2010 - 2011, aims to bring world-renowned Nobel Prize recipients and distinguished laureates from a wide range of disciplines to HKU, to share their expertise, experience and world-class scholarship with the University community and the public. The Lectures demonstrate the University's commitment in promoting Knowledge Exchange, according to Professor Paul Tam, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Research), HKU.
Apart from Professor Barré-Sinoussi, other Laureates who will visit HKU include Professor Kurt Wüthrich, 2002 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry and Professor Elinor Ostrom, 2009 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, etc.
About Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi
Françoise Barré-Sinoussi is a Professor at the Institut Pasteur and Research Director at the INSERM in France. She is involved in retrovirology research since the early 1970's. She is the first author of the publication that reported in 1983 the discovery of a new human retrovirus, later named HIV. The research programmes of her team are focused on mechanisms required to induce a protection against HIV/SIV infection and/or against AIDS in human and non human primates.
She has been strongly implicated in promoting integration between HIV/AIDS research and actions in resource limited countries, in particular through the Pasteur International Network and the ANRS research programs in Africa and Asia.
She is author and co-author of 249 original publications and of 120 articles in book reviews. She is member of a number of scientific committees in France and elsewhere. In June 2006, she was elected as an IAS Governing Council member in the European Region and in July 2010, it was announced that she will be the next President of the IAS in 2012.
She received more than 10 national or international awards, including the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008 together with Professor Luc Montagnier for her contributions to HIV/AIDS. She was elected member of the French Academy of Science in February 2009 



 
Prof Roland Chin (left), Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, HKU, presented a souvenir to Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi (right). )
 
Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi
 
From left, Ms Loretta Wong, Chief Executive of AIDS Concerns; Prof Lee Sum-ping, Dean of HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi; Dr. Leong Che-hung, Chairman of the Council of HKU and Chairman of the Hong Kong AIDS Foundation; Dr. Robert Peckham, Co-Director of Centre for the Humanities and Medicine, HKU




