[title]HKU Goes Global: Exchange Students surge by 20%[/title]
[date]15 Nov 2007[/date]
 
The global networks of students of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) are ever expanding. From next academic year onwards, HKU students will be able to go for exchange studies in four more countries - Chile, Ireland, India and Mexico, adding the total number of destination-nations around the world to 27.
HKU's Worldwide Undergraduate Student Exchange Programme has been expanding fast in the past decade. In 2006/07, a total of 735 HKU students had the opportunities to study abroad in 23 countries. The number will increase by over 20% to more than 900 in the current academic year. There is similar number of incoming students from various countries on reciprocal exchange in HKU campus.
At present, HKU students can go for credit-bearing exchange studies with some 150 partner institutions in 23 countries. They can also participate in a wide spectrum of international exposure activities of varied nature, such as hundreds of internships or voluntary services with overseas governments, non-governmental organizations or corporations, and numerous study trips and international conferences.
HKU launches this year's Study Abroad Fair on campus today (November 15) to facilitate students to choose their exchange destinations. The week-long Fair is kicked off by an exciting "Muay Thai" Thai kickboxing demonstration.
There are also 11 booths run by international students from 11 countries, who share information about the culture and learning life of their mother countries with local students. Many international students also serve traditional food and drinks in their traditional costumes. Throughout next week, incoming exchange students and returning students will share their experience abroad with their local peers.
Aiming to nurture young global leaders with wide vision, HKU endeavours to provide every full-time undergraduate student with at least one overseas exposure opportunity in their study at the University in the future.
For enquiries please contact Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
