[title]HKU Architecture Department Exhibition Showcases Students'vision of Ideal Cities[/title]
[date]15 Jun 2004[/date]
 
Hypothetical design projects representing individual students' idealized visions of the built-environment of Hong Kong and some other cities in Mainland China and in Europe will be on show at the annual exhibition of architectural design projects at the University of Hong Kong.
Entitled "Design Thesis", the exhibition is organised by the Department of Architecture of the University of Hong Kong to showcase graphic and 3D model presentations as results of theoretical investigations of architectural and urban design projects by the Master of Architecture final year students.
Many of the projects reflect students' social concerns over the high density living environment of metropolises. With their determination to tackle the environmental problems as well as maintaining sustainability and conservation, some students provide alternative solutions to the conventional ways adopted by the government or private developers.
Others display their preoccupation on new technology, media transformation for designing spiritual retreats or new images of an ideal place for pleasure, work and community, in a quest for an ideological expression or to challenge the conventional approach for such structures.
All the projects are students' proposals for a change for the better to our present living environment as a conclusion to their five-year learning programme at the University. With over half of a century of education experience, the Department demonstrates its continued endeavour to promote public awareness on education of architecture discourse in Hong Kong and to provide an opportunity to familiarize the public with the work of its final year students.
Details of the exhibition as follows:
Duration: June 19 to July 1, 2004
Exhibition hours: 11:00 am to 7:00 pm daily, including Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
Venue: 3rd Floor, Knowles Building, Department of Architecture, HKU, Pokfulam, Hong Kong
(Admission is free. All are welcome.)
For enquiries, please contact HKU's Department of Architecture, Miss Mandy Tang at Tel: 2859-8992.

