[title]Japan Month at HKU 2011 kicks off: “Make Your Own Sushi”[/title]
[date]07 Apr 2011[/date]
 


A Japanese Food Workshop featuring Yoshihiro JITSUKAWA (實川佳裕), chef to the Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong, was held today (April 7) at Global Lounge of the University of Hong Kong ((HKU). Students participating in the workshop had an opportunity to make their own sushi hand rolls under the guidance of Chef JITSUKAWA 
A series of Japan-related events featuring the Japan Month 2011 will be held at HKU by the HKU Department of Japanese Studies, School of Modern Languages and Cultures, and the Japanese Society, A.A.H.K.U.S.U. from April 7 (Thursday) to April 21. 
On April 18 (Monday), Mr. Daisuke MATSUNAGA, Deputy Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong, will join a panel discussion with HKU scholars to address "Japan Earthquake: What We Can Do to Help?" HKU community members are invited to put their views on a suggestion board at the Run Run Shaw Podium of the University from April 11 to 15.. 
Meanwhile, the Faculty of Arts, Japanese Society, Japanese Society, A.A.H.K.U.S.U, and Japanese exchange students at HKU have raised over HK$ 70,000 in support of the victims of Japan's devastating earthquake and tsunami. All further donations collected during the Japan Month will be sent to the Hong Kong Red Cross. 
Details of the events are as follows:
Japan Earthquake: What Can We Do To Help?
Suggestion Board
Date: 11 - 15 April, 2011 
Venue: Run Run Shaw Podium, HKU
Discussion Forum with Mr. Daisuke Matsunaga, Deputy Consul-General of Japan 
Date: 18 April, 2011
Time: 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm
Venue: Global Lounge, HKU
Department of Japanese Studies - Student Performances
Poems / Speeches / Animation Dubbing / Classics Recitation / Play
Date: 21 April, 2011 (Thursday)
Time: 3:30 pm - 7:00 pm 
Venue: Global Lounge, HKU
About the School of Modern Languages and Cultures 
Officially established in July 2006 as a result of the reorganization of the University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Arts, the School of Modern Languages and Cultures currently offers degree options in four area studies: American Studies, European Studies, Japanese Studies, and Modern China Studies, as well as programmes in eleven languages including Arabic, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, and Thai. 
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk  . 

 


Japan Month at HKU 2011 kicks off
 
Japanese Food Workshop featuring Yoshihiro JITSUKAWA, chef to the Consul-General of Japan in Hong Kong

Japan Month at HKU 2011
 
Japan Month at HKU 2011
 
 
 
