[title]Arts Farewell to the Main Building: A New Chapter in Our History[/title]
[date]22 Apr 2012[/date]
 
The Faculty of Arts will not only be celebrating its Centenary in 2012 but will also be leaving its home for nearly a hundred years and moving to its new building in the Centennial Campus. To mark this new chapter in its history, the Faculty held an Arts Farewell to the Main Building event on Sunday, April 22, that brought together Arts staff, students, and alumni, in a celebration of their time in this iconic building at the heart of the University.
The event, which was held in Loke Yew Hall, included Opening Remarks by the former Chief Secretary for Administration Anson Chan; poem readings by Agnes Lam and Leung Ping Kwan; the presentation of the student Video Competition Prize by University Artists Mabel Cheung and Alex Law; a performance of Haydn's Farewell Symphony by the Hong Kong Chamber Orchestra; and a percussion parade around the Main Building led by University Artist Lung Heung-wing.
Speaking during the event, the Dean of Arts, Professor Kam Louie, explained the reasons behind the move: "With our Schools and Centres increasing their programme offerings in preparation for the new four-year curriculum and the admission of a double cohort of First Year students in 2012, we were facing serious space and technical constraints."
The new Centennial Campus building will allow all existing Arts departments to come under one roof and will also house much needed physical facilities, such as special storage for historical and multimedia materials, as well as innovative venues for performances and exhibitions.
He added, "We are excited about these changes which we believe will further enhance the student learning experience and allow us to maintain our position as one of the finest humanities faculties in the region and internationally. However, we didn't want to leave our one hundred year old home without a proper goodbye. Of course, the Main Building will remain a symbol not just of the Faculty but of the University as a whole for all to enjoy."
In addition to the official ceremony at 1:30 pm in Loke Yew Hall, there were activities highlighting the Faculty's diversity taking place simultaneously throughout the Main Building, including a calligraphy demonstration by Professor C.Y. Sin, cultural performances, and a creative writing café.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .

Distinguished Alumni join Vice Chancellor Prof Lap-Chee Tsui and Dean of Arts Prof Kam Louie to launch a percussion parade around the Main Building led by University Artist Dr Lung Heung Wing

The Hon. Mrs Anson Chan shares her memories in Loke Yew Hall during the Arts Farewell to the Main Building event



Brighten Me With Virtues Chorus perform ‘Try to Remember’

Brighten Me With Virtues Chorus perform ‘Try to Remember’


