[title]HKU U-Vision Online Launching of a new era of 3D campus broadcast[/title]
[date]27 Sep 2010[/date]
 

An on-line information platform of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), U-Vision Online, will be launched tomorrow (September 28) to share with HKU community members and the general public the latest development in campus. 
Audience may access this new on-line platform to view three-dimensional video content converted from 2D using a new technology developed by a Digital Signal Processing Lab research team of the HKU Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. The technology, one of the leading in the world, converts ordinary 2D videos into 3D in a cost-effective and efficient way. Viewers can enjoy the 3D videos using special eyeglasses. 
The U-Vision Online (website: uvision.hku.hk) is an extension of the campus information channel U-Vision, which provides visual information on activities and events of the University as well as real-time news via fixed outlets across the campus. 
Real-time 2D to 3D conversion technology developed by HKU
The technology, which is used for the first time in U-Vision online, is developed by a team of researchers of the Digital Signal Processing Lab of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Live video captured by an ordinary 2D video camera in an event can be converted to 3D video in real-time and broadcast to the U-Vision channels in the campus and to everywhere through the internet. 
This is a very unique technology which differentiates from the others by its quality and real-timeliness, any ordinary 2D video can be converted to 3D in a cost-effective and efficient way. The entry barrier of 3D movie production can be greatly reduced. 
U-Vision
'U-Vision' is network of digital bulletin boards for the University of Hong Kong that was launched on March 8th, 2010. Using wall-mounted TV monitors installed at selective locations across the HKU campus, the U-Vision channel broadcasts visual information on activities and events of the University as well as real-time news. It aims at enhancing internal communications among University members in an environmentally friendly and cost-effective way. 
As Hong Kong's pre-eminent university and a world-class institution, HKU regularly hosts a wide range of activities on campus throughout the year. U-Vision is instrumental in helping to inform both the HKU community and general public about these events. By encouraging people to become more involved on campus, U-Vision also benefits HKU in building a stronger community. 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 
launching of U-Vision Online at uvision.hku.hk
Dr Wilton Fok, HKU Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering （third from left）, Director of Communications Ms Katherine Ma (fourth from left), and members of U-Vision production team
 
