[title]Artists’ melting pot Mexican Modernity: 20th-Century Paintings from the Zapanta Mexican Art Collection Explores the evolution of contemporary Mexican art
[/title]
[date]02 Jun 2016[/date]
 



Frida Kahlo
Por la Paz (For Peace)
Ink and coloured pencil on paper
1952
19 x 10.1 cm
The University Museum and Art Gallery (UMAG) of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) presents “Mexican Modernity: 20th-Century Paintings from the Zapanta Mexican Art Collection,” an exhibition held in collaboration with Richard and Rebecca Zapanta that showcases Mexican avant-garde painting, from June 3 to August 14, 2016.
Over the past 25 plus years, the Zapantas have collected the artworks of some of the best-known and most artistically influential Mexican artists, including those by José Clemente Orozco, Diego Rivera, Rufino Tamayo and Frida Kahlo.
An opening ceremony of the exhibition was held at UMAG today (June 2). Officiating guests included the Acting Consul General, Consulate General of Mexico in HK and Macao, Mr Saúl Zambrano Barajas; The Zapanta Mexican Art Collection’s Dr Richard Zapanta and Ms Rebecca Zapanta; Guest Curator Mr Gregorio Luke and the Director of UMAG, Dr Florian Knothe.

Mexican Modernity displays, through 40 paintings, the development of painterly styles and social representations of Mexico, from the more European influenced compositions to predominantly indigenous themes that regularly appeared as liberal Mexico sought to distinguish itself from its Spanish colonial past. The exhibition aims to introduce the different, and at times unique styles, such as muralist art and neomexicanismo, and to highlight the importance that Mexican local painters played in the development of neo-expressionist and postmodern art, as well as the colour palette and compositions that are today celebrated as significant contributions.
Details of the Exhibition
Period: June 3, 2016 (Friday) to August 14, 2016 (Sunday)
Opening Hours:
09:30 – 18:00 (Monday to Saturday)
13:00 – 18:00 (Sunday)
Closed on University and Public Holidays
Venue: 1/F T.T. Tsui Building, UMAG, 90 Bonham Road, Pokfulam
Tel/Email: (852) 2241 5500 (General Enquiry) / museum@hku.hk
Admission: Free
Website: www.hkumag.hku.hk
For guided tours and other exhibition-related activities, please click here.
Connect with UMAG on social media:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/umag.hku 
Instagram: #MexicanModernity, #HKUMAG
Twitter: https://twitter.com/UMAG_HKU 
Weibo: @香港大學美術博物館UMAG
About University Museum and Art Gallery of the University of Hong Kong (UMAG)
UMAG was founded in 1953 as the Fung Ping Shan Museum. It was originally established as the Fung Ping Shan Library in 1932 in honour of its benefactor. For more information on UMAG, please click here.
Media enquiries: 
UMAG Communications Officer Miss Elena Cheung, Tel: (852) 2241 5512, Email: elenac@hku.hk  

Alfredo Ramos Martínez
Returning Home from the Market
Painting, mixed media, tempera and charcoal on paper
c. 1940
67.3 x 51.1 cm

Diego Rivera
Niña con Flores (Girl with Flowers)
Watercolour on rice paper
1954
38.1 x 25.4 cm



Dr Florian KNOTHE, Director of UMAG; Dr Richard Zapanta, The Zapanta Mexican Art Collection; Mr Saúl Zambrano Barajas, Acting Consul General, Consulate General of Mexico in Hong Kong and Macao; Ms Rebecca ZAPANTA, The Zapanta Mexican Art Collection; Ms Valerie ZAPANTA-KOSELKE; Ms Beatriz E. Nava, Consul, Consulate General of Mexico in Hong Kong and Macao; Mr Greg Koselke; Mr Gregorio Luke, Guest Curator


