[title]INAUGURATION CEREMONY FOR NEW STUDENTS AT HKU[/title]
[date]02 Sep 2005[/date]
 
New Students at the University of Hong Kong were officially welcomed to the University today at Loke Yew Hall, HKU. The inauguration ceremony was conducted by HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-chee Tsui in the presence of Dean of Student Affairs Dr. Albert Chau, Chairman of Convocation Mrs. Teresa Tong, President of the Students' Union Mr. Chan Kai-yip and Honorable Mrs. Rita Fan, GBS, JP who is HKU alumnus as Guest of Honour. Deans of all ten faculties and HKU’s Registrar were also present at the ceremony.
Organized by the Office of Student Affairs, the inauguration ceremony is the first formal event attended by freshmen. This is an annual occasion aiming to welcome the new cohort of students to the HKU fraternity, highlight different aspects of University life, to introduce them to the University teachers and administration and to provide guidance to the new students for an enriching experience in HKU.
"You should look to both the classroom and beyond it", HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said, "What I am talking about is whole-person development. One of the important aspects of whole-person development is about moral and ethics, and how to become a responsible member of a civil society. And in the face of globalization, we will provide you with an increasingly diverse and international learning experience through student exchanges, internships, and community services. I urge you to take advantages of the opportunities provided by this University for the intellectual cross-fertilization you need".
Recalling her days at HKU, Honourable Mrs Rita Fan said "I am very happy to be back at my Alma Mater. If I have to use one word to characterize my university days, then the word is definitely 'freedom'. University is a place where we could venture to try out new projects, improve our inter-personal skills, gain valuable experience, and become more mature in the process." She concluded by saying "my message to all of you is Enjoy your time at HKU, Enrich your mind through participation, and improve your EQ while you are here".
When the ceremony was finished, the Vice-Chancellor met with a group of new students and discussed with them the future development of the University, including a major curriculum change following the "3+3+4" reform and the University's Western Expansion Project.
Professor Lap-chee Tsui, in replying to questions of the students, indicated that HKU was extremely successful in its student recruitment in 2005. It admitted 250 Mainland students among the 4,850 applicants and the majority of those selected and joined were so outstanding that they all already had offers from the best universities in the Mainland such as Tsinghua, Beida and Fudan. HKU admitted about 180 students under the Early Admissions Scheme, including 5 of the 7 students with 10As in HKCEE and 19 of the 34 with 9As. For JUPAS admission, newly-admitted HKU students had average scores in both 3 HKALE and 2AL+1As subjects which are highest among students joining universities this year. Non-local candidates admitted by HKU this year include international students from Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Germany, India, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Romania, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the USA. "You are the best among the best, and I am so proud of you," the Vice-chancellor said to the new students.
For further enquiries, please contact Miss Cherry Cheung of HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2606.
September 02, 2005
