[title]Opening Ceremony of the Stephen Hui Geological Museum and Launch Ceremony of HKU Faculty of Science 70th Anniversary Celebration[/title]
[date]16 Jan 2009[/date]
 
The Faculty of Science, The University of Hong Kong is celebrating its Platinum Jubilee in 2009, and it has launched its year-long activities at the Opening Ceremony of Stephen Hui Geological Museum on the University Main Campus on January 16, 2009.
Mr William C L Hui, Dr Stephen Hui's son and officiating guest of the Ceremony, said that the museum was always his late father's dream, and it gave him immense pleasure to see it coming into being. "I would like to thank the staff of the Department of Earth Sciences for their painstaking efforts in setting up this museum virtually from scratch," Mr Hui said. In thanking the Hui Family, Professor Richard Y C Wong, the Deputy-Vice-Chancellor and Provost, said: "Generation after generation, the Hui Family have lent their very generous support to the University." Professor Sun Kwok, Dean of Science, also said that the museum provided an attractive object-based learning laboratory for the nature and evolution of the planet to visitors at all ages. "The museum is vital in driving the development of Earth Science education at Hong Kong schools."
On the auspicious occasion of its 70th birthday, the Faculty would like to take the opportunity to promote science literacy. "We would like to further enhance the linkage of science to the community and reconnect our alumni and friends," Professor Kwok said. In addition to the Homecoming Day and Anniversary Dinner, special lectures entitled "70th Anniversary Lectures" and "Science-in-Action" lectures will be delivered. 
The Faculty has also established a "70th Anniversary Alumni Fund" to support various experiential learning activities, which enables its undergraduate students to enrich their learning experience in the new science curriculum. The Faculty is also pleased to announce the following celebrities and distinguished alumni have agreed to be our Patrons or Honorary Advisors:
Patrons
Professor Rayson HUANG (黃麗松教授)
Mr Richard C Y HUI (許晉義先生)
Mr William C L HUI (許晉廉先生)
Mr Edmund Sze-wing TSE (謝仕榮先生)
Honorary Advisors
Mr Wing-luk CHAN (陳永陸先生)
Mr Stanley CHU (朱裕倫先生)
Mr Shui-ming CHUNG, GBS JP (鍾瑞明先生)
The Hon Rita FAN HSU (范徐麗泰女士)
Mr Ki-chi KWONG (鄺其志先生)
Mr Chiu-ying LAM (林超英先生)
Mrs Fanny LAW FAN (羅范椒芬女士)
Dr Sarah LIAO (廖秀冬博士)
Professor Chung-kwong POON (潘宗光教授)
Professor Yum-tong SIU (蕭蔭堂教授)
The Hon Michael SUEN GBS JP (孫明揚先生)
Professor Sheung-wai TAM (譚尚渭教授)
Mrs Carrie WILLIS (邱霜梅女士)
Mr Kai-man WONG BBS JP (黃啟民先生)
Professor Enoch YOUNG (楊健明教授)
The Stephen Hui Geological Museum is the first and only geological museum in Hong Kong. It aims at promoting the understanding and appreciation of dynamic natural world of Earth Sciences among public. With a world-class collection of minerals, rocks and fossils and interactive displays, it showcases the development of our dynamic Earth over the 4.5 billion years of its history with examples relevant to the China region.
Dr Stephen Hui was a philanthropist to many local organizations including The University of Hong Kong. Apart from constructing the Hui Oi Chow Science Building, which was named in honor of his father, Mr Hui Oi Chow, Dr Hui had also generously donated his extensive mineral collection, forming the core of the Geological Museum's permanent Earth Material display. After Dr Hui passed away in 1989, his wife Madam Anna Hui, and sons, Richard and William, have continued to support the advancement of Earth Sciences in Hong Kong, and have set up the Dr Stephen S F Hui Trust Fund and the establishment of the Stephen Hui Geological Museum.
For enquiries and interview arrangement, please contact Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media) of External Relations Office, at 2859 2600/ Email:：hkumedia@hku.hk ); or Ms Cindy Chan, Communication Manager, Faculty of Science at 2241 5286 / 6356 5626 / Email: cindycst@hku.hk.
