[title]HKU Vice Chancellor Named one of ten Giants of Biomedical Science By the University of Toronto[/title]
[date]28 Jun 2006[/date]
 
In recognition of his outstanding achievements in biomedical science, the University of Toronto (U of T) has named Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, the Vice Chancellor of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), one of their ten "Giants of Biomedical Science".A sculpture dedicated to him and other honourees was unveiled in a ceremony today (28 June HK time) at U of T.In addition, one floor of the Terrence Donnelly Centre for Cellular and Biomedical Research (DCCBR) at U of T will be named after Professor Tsui.It is the first time Prof Tsui has been honoured with a sculpture and a floor bearing his name. 
The bronze sculpture "Giants of Biomedical Science Sculpture" depicts ten leading biomedical researchers or builders (see notes at the end) who got their start or made their mark at U of T, among them Sir Frederick Banting, who was awarded a Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine in 1923.Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui is the only Chinese honouree.The sculpture (see notes at the end) will be installed in the Giants of Biomedical Science Hall in the DCCBR which is a research centre at U of T that fosters interdisciplinary collaboration in human genome research.The sculpture serves as a reminder that today's discoverers stand on the shoulders of giants.
At today's ceremony hosted by the President and the Dean of Faculty of Medicine, Professor Tsui said "It is a great privilege to be recognized by the University of Toronto along side with the truly great giants in biomedical science, like Banting and Best whose work saved so many people.Looking back, we have indeed contributed something extraordinary to cystic fibrosis research and human genome studies.However, I do not consider myself a Giant as I am still learning everyday especially from the other honourees.To me, the name of Giants belongs to them who were and are masters in the field."
Professor Tsui thanked his colleagues for the honour as he said, "The Giants of Biomedical Science Sculpture celebrates the achievements of biomedical science at the University of Toronto where I established my academic career and scientific pursuits.I consider myself extremely fortunate to have always been at the right place at the right time with the right people.I would like to share this distinct honour with all those who have supported me along the way." 
Looking ahead to the future, Professor Tsui said "I am glad that I was able to contribute to the development of science in Hong Kong, I will endeavour to continue to build the bridge between East and West".
Professor Tsui is a discoverer of the gene for cystic fibrosis and has made significant contributions to the mapping and annotation of human chromosome 7 and identification of many other disease genes.He is the Principal Investigator of the Hong Kong HapMap Group which contributed to the mapping of 2.5% of the whole human genome.The Hong Kong HapMap Group worked as a partner with the Chinese HapMap Consortium in the International HapMap Project.
For photos of the unveiling ceremony, please click the "Photo Gallery" icon inside the "Weekly Notice for the Media" webpage (http://www.hku.hk/media)
For media enquiries please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, External Relations Office, HKU at 2859 2606. 
Notes to editors: 
1. The ten honourees are:
Sir Frederick Banting, winner of 1923 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine
Dr. Charles Best, collaborator with Dr. Banting on Nobel Prize-winning insulin discovery
Dr. Wilfred Bigelow, developer of the first artificial cardiac pacemaker
Dr. George Connell, biochemical research advocate and leader
Dr. Maud Menten, founder of modern enzymology
Dr. James Mustard, advocate for early childhood development
Dr. Vera Peters, developer of lumpectomy as alternative to radical mastectomy
Dr. Robert Salter, innovator in orthopedic surgery
Dr. Louis Siminovitch, founder of department of medical genetics
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, discoverer of the gene for cystic fibrosis
2. The sculpture is created by Veronica de Nogales and Edwin Timothy Dam of Dam De Nogales Sculptures, each of the ten giants is 1.5 times life size and weighs approximately 122 lbs.It took approximately 9 months to complete. 
3. The Terrence Donnelly Centre for Cellular and Biomedical Research (DCCBR) at the University of Toronto was opened in 2005 as a joint project of the Faculties of Medicine, Pharmacy and Applied Science and Engineering, to foster interdisciplinary collaboration in human genome research.
