[title]HKU Law Professor Appointed United Nations Special Representative For Human Rights in Cambodia[/title]
[date]20 Dec 2005[/date]
 
Professor Yash Ghai of the University of Hong Kong's Law Faculty has been appointed by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan to be his special representative for human rights in Cambodia.
The responsibilities of this appointment include scrutinizing the observance of human rights in Cambodia, advising the Cambodian Government and society on the protection of human rights, making public statements on serious violations, as well as developing awareness and capacity for enforcement of human rights.He will also give advice to the United Nations Secretary General and United Nations Human Rights Office on issues relating to human rights.
HKU Vice Chancellor Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui congratulated Professor Ghai and said, "this is a highly-prestigious appointment and a remarkable recognition for Professor Ghai's knowledge and experience.The University is glad to see its members being recognized in the international arena.The University looks forward to his continued contributions in the further development of human rights both locally and internationally". 
Professor Ghai said that he was very happy to have been appointed, and commented, "it is a great honour, and I hope I shall be able to make a contribution to the people of Cambodia, a fascinating and beautiful country whose people have suffered greatly".
Professor Ghai is, as described in a statement issued by the United Nations upon his appointment, "a distinguished academic and renowned constitutional lawyer".He joined HKU in 1989 and was awarded the University's Distinguished Researcher Award in 2001.Currently he is the Sir YK Pao Professor of Public Law at HKU and he specializes in basic law, human rights and public law.He has taught in Yale University and University of Warwick before joining HKU. From late 2000 to early 2004 he was chairing the process to produce a new Constitution for his home country, Kenya.
Professor Ghai has paid his first visit as Special Representative to Cambodia, where he has met His Majesty the King, the Prime Minister Mr Hun Sen, and had consultations with government officials, human rights organizations, members of the diplomatic community and others with insight into the human rights situation. He will then write his first report that will be presented to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and then the General Assembly of the United Nations in the first quarter of next year.
To download the photo of Professor Ghai, please visit http://www.hku.hk/eroesite/html/press/yashghai.jpg.
For interview or media enquiries, please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU on 2859 2606.
