[title]HKU Geography Chair Professor Jim Chi-yung received the 2014 L.C. Chadwick Award for Arboriculture Research[/title]
[date]06 Aug 2014[/date]
 

ISA recognizes Professor Jim’s outstanding contributions to arboriculture research.

Professor Jim Chi-yung, Chair of Geography, Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Hong Kong, is the 2014 recipient of the L.C. Chadwick Award for Arboricultural Research presented by the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) on August 3, 2014 in the United States. Professor Jim is the first Asian socientist to receive this Award. 
ISA is a nonprofit organization which promotes the professional practice of arboriculture and fosters a greater worldwide awareness of the benefits of trees through research, technology and education. Founded in 1924, ISA has more than 20,000 members worldwide. It offers the only internationally-recognized certification programme in the industry.  The Award is given to individuals to recognize their research and their valuable contributions to arboriculture. 
Professor Jim is recognized as a cornerstone in the growing research community locally and internationally. His studies include large urban forest ecosystems, heritage trees, urban parks, green roofs and green walls. His most influential contribution to the profession is the ecological research on the nature-in-city domain, which focuses on urban trees as its most prominent ambassador and benefactor. 
Professor John P. Burns, Dean of Social Sciences, the University of Hong Kong said, “We are very proud to hear that Professor Jim has received the 2014 L.C. Chadwick Award for Arboricultural Research. Apart from his academic impact, Professor Jim is one of the pioneer academics to bridge town and gown by transferring research-based knowledge to the community for direct adoption and application.  His research forms a basis for formulating policy and practice to improve the green life in Hong Kong.”
“My fundamental guiding principle is that knowledge is the beacon of humankind. As a university teacher and researcher, it is my duty to advance, enrich, improve, transmit, and preserve knowledge. I am delighted and thankful for the chance to participate in this wonderful and fulfilling endeavor.” said Professor Jim. “Life is too short for many devotions, and I have chosen to dedicate my professional life to the welfare of trees. I believe they are the critical elements that maintain the Earth’s ecosystems. We cannot afford to mistreat them,” he added.
Professor Jim, published nearly 300 scientific papers and books, has been a tree advocate for three decades now.  He has successfully convinced the government to set up recently a tree management office and a landscape planning office at a high-level policy branch, providing for the first time a professional arborist grade in the civil service establishment. He is an honorary advisor to the Hong Kong SAR Government as a member of the Expert Panel on Tree Management and Greening Master Plan Committee.
To learn more about Professor Jim Chi-yung and his research, please visit http://geog.hku.hk/staff_FT_Jim.html.
Media enquiry:
Communication and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (Tel：2857 8555 / 9022 7446 email rhea.leung@hku.hk)
Faculty of Social Sciences Ms Vanessa Sit (Tel: 3917 1203 / 9267 8877 email: vansit@hku.hk)

Professor Jim Chi-yung receives the L.C. Chadwick Award for Arboricultural Research in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A. The Award is presented by ISA’s past president (2007-2009) Lauren Lanphear.

Professor Jim Chi-yung is the first Asian socientist to receive this Award.  


