[title]HKU Organises International Symposium on Mental Health and Addresses Issues in Youth Mental Health[/title]
[date]29 Nov 2015[/date]
 

Officiating guests, Dr Ko Wing-man, Mr Leong Cheung and Mr Douglas So, took a photo with the guests at the Opening Ceremony.

Funded by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust, the International Symposium cum Training Workshop for the Jockey Club Early Psychosis (JCEP) : MOVING AHEAD: Early Intervention in Mental Health organised by the Department of Psychiatry of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) was opened yesterday (November 28).  International scholars and experts gave presentations and shared professional insights.  At the symposium, the JCEP team announced the research findings on the first initiative worldwide 4-year case management for adult-onset psychosis.
The opening ceremony was officiated by Dr the Honourable Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government; Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club; and Mr Douglas So, Vice President and Pro Vice Chancellor (Institutional Advancement) of HKU.
“We support early psychosis services and Hospital Authority renewed services in order to meet the public needs – EASY extended service target from youth to adults aged 25 above.  Stressed on the physical and mental health of the Hong Kong citizens, the Government will also enhance the public awareness of mental health in future,” said Dr Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government and the officiating guest of the ceremony.
Mr Douglas So said that JCEP built up strong networks, developed a quality service model, designed public education work and of course made great contribution to the psychosis research.    As a long term partner, HKU wished to gain continuing support from The Trust to help the University pursue excellence in teaching and research. 
Mr Leong Cheung said The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust was delighted to learn that even before the project had been completed, its promising early results and the needs of adult psychosis intervention services prompted the public health sector to follow JCEP in 2011, by extending their early psychosis service to cover adult psychosis as well as youth. 
Although many people might have heard of the term "early psychosis", they generally lacked sufficient knowledge of the condition.  Despite common misconceptions, psychosis is a treatable mental illness and recovery is possible with timely and effective intervention, thus greater public awareness of the illness is vital.  It was for this reason that in 2009, The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust supported HKU to launch JCEP with a donation of around HK$69 million.  The aim of the project was to enhance public awareness and knowledge of psychotic disorders, as well as to bridge the service gap for patients aged over 25.
Professor Eric Chen Yu-hai, JCEP Project Director, Clinical Professor and Head of Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU said that the study involved 1,179 adult (age 26-55) psychosis onset patients and is one of the three major psychosis studies in the world.  Results show that patients received 4-year case management lead to a better outcome in social functioning, attention, memory and executive functioning compared to those in 2-year case management.  Another distinctive finding indicates poorer outcomes in symptoms and functions on deprived women.  A more focused service targeting their specific needs is recommended.
About Jockey Club Early Psychosis Project (JCEP)
Jockey Club Early Psychosis Project (JCEP) is an early psychosis project at the University of Hong Kong funded by the Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust since 2009. This HK$68.82 million project involves intervention, research, and public education in early psychosis. The intervention team provides case management service to more than 1,000 patients with first episode psychosis. Its public education work includes public health talks at public libraries and schools, gate keeper training for frontline workers, and public exhibition at train stations, housing estates, and higher education institutes.
For photos, please click the below link：
http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases

(From left) Officiating guests, Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Dr Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health Bureau of HKSAR, and Mr Douglas So, Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Institutional Advancement) of HKU, at the Opening Ceremony of International Symposium cum Training Workshop for the Jockey Club Early Psychosis Project (JCEP): Moving Ahead: Early Intervention in Mental Health.

Dr Ko Wing-man, Secretary of Food and Health Bureau, expressed concerns with the physical and mental health of Hong Kong citizens and will strengthen promotion of mental health promotion.




Professor Patrick McGorry shared his vision on youth mental health in the International Symposium.

(From left) Mr Douglas So, Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Institutional Advancement) of HKU, Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Professor Eric Chen, Jockey Club Early Psychosis Project Director and Clinical Professor and Head of Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU and Professor Patrick McGorry took a group photo. 

       
        

