[title]HKU study reveals yoga improves neurocognitive functions [/title]
[date]20 Feb 2014[/date]
 
Psychosis can cause functional degeneration in many aspects, including neurocognitive degeneration in memory and attention.  Though medication can effectively controls psychotic symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations, its effects on other associated dysfunctions are less remarkable.  Patients’ daily lives and work performance are seriously affected.  A study by the Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) reveals that yoga can help improve the memory, attention, depressive symptoms and other clinical symptoms of patients at early stages of psychosis.  This breakthrough overcomes the limitations of medication.       
Research implications
 Professor Eric Chen Yu-hai, Clinical Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU, leads the research and says, “This is the first clinical research worldwide on the application of yoga on early psychosis patients.  The research results show that yoga can complement medication in treating neurocognitive degeneration.”
Research methods and results
Since July 2010, the research team had recruited participants and randomly divided them into two groups.  One group received a 12-week yoga intervention in addition to their existing medications, while the control group received their existing medications only.  Both before and after the study period, all the participants received assessments of neurocognitive functions and clinical symptoms, as well as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the brain.
60 psychosis patients completed the study.  Results of the study show that patients of the yoga group have significant improvement in long-term and short-term memory, attention and visual-motor coordination after the 12-week intervention.  Furthermore, their overall clinical symptoms and depressive symptoms have reduced.  MRI data show that the brain area (post-central gyrus) related to somatosensory functions has thickened and the volume of the brain area (corpus callosum) related to information exchanges between the two hemispheres has increased.  These indicate that patients’ movement and senses, as well as their abilities to receive and process information have all improved.
FitMind Yoga
Although the study demonstrates that yoga brings substantial benefits to early psychosis patients, there are great challenges as to its further promotion to patients who have lost the interest and motivation in daily life because of the illness.  Targeting at patients’ problems of weak physical and learning abilities, the Department of Psychiatry at Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU jointly developed a simple 23-step yoga sequence named “FitMind Yoga 23-postures” with the Early Psychosis Foundation (EPISO) to enable patients to practise continuously in order to improve their conditions.
In the next few months, the Department of Psychiatry in HKU will organise a series of charity activities with EPISO to promote “FitMind Yoga”, including free yoga classes, distribution of promotional pamphlets as well as instructional yoga videos to patients for self-learning.  Besides, a 3D photo exhibition named “FitMind is Attitude” will be held at Times Square, Causeway Bay from March 11 to 16, and a “FitMind Yoga Mega Fund-raising Event” at Diocesan Boys' School will be held on April 6.  For more details of the “FitMind Yoga” campaign, please visit the website http://fitmind.episo.org/.  For more details about EPISO, please visit http://www.episo.org/.
Please visit the website at http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases/ for press photos and powerpoint presentation.

A study by the Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU reveals that yoga can help to improve neurocognitive functions of early psychosis patients.  From the left:　Yoga teacher Miss Kiki Lin, Dr Jessie Lin Jingxia, Post-doctoral Fellow of Department of Psychiatry, Professor Eric Chen Yu-hai, Clinical Professor and Head of Department of Psychiatry and Chairman of Early Psychosis Foundation, Ms Joy Mok, Chief Executive of Early Psychosis Foundation and yoga student Mr Andy Lin attend the press conference together. 

“This is the first clinical research worldwide on the application of yoga on early psychosis patients.  The research results show that yoga can complement medication in treating neurocognitive degeneration,” remarks Professor Eric Chen Yu-hai, Clinical Professor and Head of Department of Psychiatry of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU. 


Dr Jessie Lin Jingxia, Post-doctoral Fellow of Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU is a yoga teacher with ten years of experience in practising yoga.  She finds that yoga can improve concentration and mind control.　　She conducted this study as she thinks yoga may be beneficial to the patients with psychiatric problems.  And the results show that early psychosis patients have remarkable improvement in memory, attention and visual-motor coordination after practising yoga. 

Ms Joy Kok, Chief Executive of Early Psychosis Foundation (EPISO) says, Department of Psychiatry of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU and EPISO are going to organise a series of charity activities in the next few months, including a 3D photo exhibition entitled “FitMind is Attitude” to be held from March 11 to 16 at Times Square at Causeway Bay and a “FitMind Yoga Mega Fun-raising Event” to be held in April 6 at Diocesan Boys’ School. 


There are great challenges as to promote exercise in psychosis patients who have lost the interest and motivation in daily life.  Department of Psychiatry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU jointly developed a simple yoga sequence entitled “FitMind Yoga 23-postures” with Early Psychosis Foundation which enable patients to practise anytime at home in order to improve their conditions.  From the left:  Yoga student Andy Lin and yoga teacher Kiki Lin are demonstrating step-18, the “dancer pose”.

From the left:  Yoga student Andy Lin and yoga teacher Kiki Lin are demonstrating step-16, the “side angle pose”.


From the left:  Yoga student Andy Lin and yoga teacher Kiki Lin are demonstrating step-14, the “warrior pose 1”.



