[title]Glimpses of the Immortal:Takács Quartet's All-Beethoven Programme[/title]
[date]09 Aug 2016[/date]
 
Presented by Cultural Management Office, HKU
Saturday, 24 September 2016, 8:00PM
Grand Hall, Lee Shau Kee Lecture Centre, The University of Hong Kong
 “This is chamber-music playing of overwhelming intensity…
simply the best I have ever heard in concert” - The Guardian
"The Takács play Beethoven better than any other quartet in the past or the present."
-The Cleveland Plain Dealer   
Praised as “peerless” and “consistently invigorating” (The New York Times), the Takács Quartet is recognised as one of the world's finest string quartets. The ensemble plays with an irresistible blend of drama, warmth, and humour, combining four distinct musical personalities to bring fresh insights to the string quartet repertoire. After nearly 25 years, the Takács Quartet is returning to Hong Kong this fall!
Formed in Budapest in 1975 and long based in the U.S., the celebrated ensemble has amassed an impressive array of honours and an extensive recorded legacy. When the Takács Quartet completed their recording project of Beethoven string quartets in 2006 (Decca), Critic Alex Ross wrote, “This survey, now complete, stands as the most richly expressive modern account of this titanic cycle” (The New Yorker). These recordings, widely considered one of the most significant recent recordings of the repertoire, have earned prestigious awards worldwide, including a Grammy, two Gramophone Awards, and BBC Music Magazine’s ‘CD of the Year’.
On 24 September at HKU, audiences of Hong Kong will have a chance to hear these masterworks by the legendary Takács Quartet live! The artists will bring us an all-Beethoven programme and a Music in Words dialogue. ‘Glimpses of the Immortal’ – this is simply a must-go for Beethoven lovers and will surely be a remarkable musical experience for all!
All-Beethoven Programme
Op. 18, No. 2
Op. 95, ‘Serioso’
Op. 131
Music in Words Dialogue
Book Talk &amp; Signing (free admission)
Beethoven for a Later Age: The Journey of a String Quartet
(In English)
September 23, Friday, 1pm 
HKU Bookstore, G/F, Chi Wah Learning Commons, Centennial Campus, HKU
Speakers:
Edward Dusinberre (Author / Takács Quartet's First Violin)
Prof. Daniel Chua (Chairperson, Department of Music, HKU)
”Oh those are not for you, they are for a later age!” Beethoven remarked on his Op. 59 quartets.
Beethoven’s 16 string quartets have come to rank among the greatest achievements of Western art and have inspired artists of all kinds. The first violinist of the distinguished Takács Quartet, Edward Dusinberre, recounts the exhilarating challenge of tackling these pieces in his newly released book titled Beethoven for a Later Age: The Journey of a String Quartet. The book takes the reader inside the life of a string quartet, melding music history and memoir as it explores the circumstances surrounding the composition of Beethoven’s quartets.
In this talk, Dusinberre will discuss the significance and challenge of these monumental works with renowned Beethoven scholar Prof. Daniel Chua. The book will be available for sale and author signing following the talk until 3pm.
Registration required at www.muse.hku.hk
Programme Enquiries
3917 8165 | www.muse.hku.hk
Press Photos Download
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/36peqgdgwz1yno8/AAAVpKE0jYY97DLSnRLeJMO8a?dl=0
Tickets and enquiries
2111 5999 | www.urbtix.hk
Media Enquiries
For more information and interview arrangements, please contact:
Ms June Lui | Manager, Cultural Management Office, HKU
Telephone: 3917 7753 | Email: junelch@hku.hk
Takács Quartet
Edward Dusinberre, violin
Károly Schranz, violin
Geraldine Walther, viola
András Fejér, cello
Biography:
http://www.takacsquartet.com/press_group.html

