[title]A Public Lecture - Doubleness: Photography of Chien-Chi Chang[/title]
[date]08 Dec 2008[/date]
 
The Journalism and Media Studies Centre, HKU is pleased to host a public lecture and exhibit on: "Doubleness: Photography of Chien-Chi Chang" on 13 December, 2008(Saturday). Chien-Chi Chang is an accomplished photographer and member of the prestigious photographic cooperative, Magnum Photos. He will present four projects at the lecture; The Chain; I do I do I do; Double Happiness; and China Town.
Each photograph deftly captures the synergy between him and his subjects without being intrusive. Chang's purposeful style of repeating a particular scene and moment in a series of photographs of different people results in a clever conveyance of ‘doubleness' in the partnership of his subjects. In the tireless pursuit of truth, these unadorned works reveal Chang's fascination about relationships and his concern for the human condition. Working along the margins of documentary, journalism and art, the photographs and videos in this lecture not only document injustice; but more importantly, they lead us to confront the issues, the people and, in the end, ourselves.
Speaker: Mr. Chien-chi Chang
Date: 13 Dec 2008 (Saturday)
Time: 7pm to 8:30pm
Venue: Agnés b Cinema! Hong Kong Arts Centre, 2 Harbour Road, Wanchai
Language : English
Exhibition of student works start at foyer outside the venue at 6 p.m
Admission is free. For details and online registration, please view http://jmsc.hku.hk/magnum
About the Speaker:
Chien-Chi Chang was born in Taiwan in 1961 and he is now an American citizen.  He studied English literature at the University of Taipei, and has a Masters in Education from Indiana University. Much of his work touch on the subjects of alienation and connection.  He was awarded the W. Eugene Smith Memorial Fund for Humanistic Photography in 1999. 
Chang joined Magnum Photos in 1995.  He lives and works in Taipei and New York City.
For more about Chang Chien-chi's work, please visit http://magnumphotos.com/chienchi_chang.html
This event is co-sponsored by Muse Magazine. For enquiries contact Kylie Chan at kyliec@hku.hk  or 2219-4416.
