[title]A Year after the Sichuan Earthquake - A Symposium on Disaster Management[/title]
[date]09 May 2009[/date]
 
10 distinguished scholars and experts from local, overseas and Chinese Academies gathered together at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (May 9, 2009), for a day of intensive discussion and updates on different aspects of disaster management. Professor S P Chow, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President, presented an overview of the funded projects at the afternoon press conference.
HKU established the "512 Earthquake Roundtable" after the massive quake struck Sichuan last year. With support from alumni and the community, the group provides seed money to support immediate services and the post-catastrophe research initiatives of HKU. So far, the Roundtable has channelled part of the donation received to fund 15 potential academic projects focusing on both immediate services and post-catastrophe research. The Faculties of Architecture, Engineering, Science and Social Sciences are all lending their professional and academic expertise to the relief effort.
In addition, two top mainland academics, Professor Li Deren, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Academy of Engineering, and Professor Wang Sijing, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, shared their expertise on "Remote Sensing and GIS for Disaster Management" and "Extreme Natural Disasters and Risk Management" respectively.
Professor Li Deren introduced the remote sensing and GIS systems which are used for disaster management in China, which includes typhoon monitoring, flood monitoring and assessment, snow and ice monitoring over land, river and sea, environmental health monitoring such as migratory bird and bird flu risk monitoring, and SARS emergency management, among others.
In addition, Professor Wang Sijing urged that societies be alert to the problems brought about extreme natural disasters and include their risk management when planning national and local programmes of science and technology, and social economic development.
As science and technology progresses, the human capacity to reduce and manage extreme natural disasters should increase greatly in the near future.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director of External Relations (Tel: 2859 2600/E-mail: pychoy@hku.hk ) or Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media), External Relations Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2600/E-mail: hkumedia@hku.hk )
About the HKU Sichuan Earthquake Roundtable Initiatives
The 512 earthquake in Sichuan was followed by immense concern and an eagerness to help from the HKU Family. The "512 Earthquake Roundtable" was established to coordinate the relief efforts of HKU staff, students, alumni and friends.
The remit of 512 Roundtable has been to
- serve as a clearing house, formulate proposals for and monitor the concerted action of the HKU Family in the rebuilding process;
- manage information dissemination and communications;
- manage budget, solicit and match resources;
- fundraise for and oversee the 512 Earthquake Roundtable Fund, which will provide seed money to support the rebuilding initiatives of the HKU Family;
- oversee various initiatives, including the Catastrophe Management Initiative.

