[title]Legal Information Website for Families in Hong Kong – FamilyCLIC 
[/title]
[date]28 Mar 2014[/date]
 
The Law and Technology Centre of The University of Hong Kong will launch its fourth legal information website developed for people in Hong Kong with no legal background, the FamilyCLIC (www.familyclic.hk) on March 31 (Tomorrow).
Sponsored by the Home Affairs Bureau of the HKSAR Government, FamilyCLIC provides free legal information on 19 topics involving legal issues commonly encountered by families in Hong Kong, including disputes with neighbours, domestic violence and assistance, foster care and child adoption, purchasing property together and divorce (please see the detailed list of topics in the appendix). The contents were written by legal experts, with the relevant laws and legal concepts being explained in plain language.
It is anticipated that FamilyCLIC serves as a quick and handy Internet guide for family members in Hong Kong to find relevant legal information. It aims to help citizens acquire a basic understanding of the relevant law before seeking advice from lawyers.
FamilyCLIC has summarized the contents of the website to 100 questions and answers as an introductory guide for viewers. These 100 Q&amp;As are printed into booklets which will be available to the public for free. To obtain a free copy of the booklet, families or organizations can send their names and correspondence addresses via post, fax or email.
How to get the “FamilyCLIC 100 Q&amp;As” booklet:
By post: Law and Technology Centre, Cheng Yu Tung Tower, Centennial Campus, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong. (No self-addressed envelope is required.)
By fax: 2549-8495
By email: book@familyclic.hk
To visit FamilyCLIC website prior to the official launch, please login the website with the following username and password:
Username: familyhku
Password: fclic2014
For media inquiries, please contact our Content Editor, Ms. Jessica Wu, at 3917-4236 or 9480-9911.
About the Law and Technology Centre (www.lawtech.hk)
The Law and Technology Centre (LawTech Centre), established in 2001, is a joint Centre of the Faculty of Law and the Department of Computer Science at The University of Hong Kong. With a view to promoting and supporting the rule of law in Hong Kong, the Centre has long been committed to serving the community by making legal information available on the Internet free access by the public. In 2002, it launched the “Hong Kong Legal Information Institute” (HKLII) at www.hklii.hk offering primary legal information relating to Hong Kong, including legislation, regulations, case law, practice directions and law reform reports.
Currently, HKLII attracts about 3,200 visitors per day.
About the CLIC Project (www.clic.org.hk)
With funding assistance and substantial contribution by the Department of Justice of HKSAR Government, in 2007, headed by two co-principal investigators, Dr. Kevin K. H. Pun from the Computer Science Department, and Prof. Anne Cheung from the Faculty of Law, the LawTech Centre launched the “Community Legal Information Centre” (CLIC) at www.clic.org.hk specifically catered for anyone with no legal background. It provides basic information on more than 20 legal topics that have most interest and direct bearing on the daily lives of ordinary citizens in Hong Kong. The topics include employment disputes, landlord and tenant, personal injuries, protection for investors and structured products, police and crime, etc.
The average number of visitors for CLIC is about 2,700 per day.
About YouthCLIC (youthclic.hk) and SeniorCLIC (s100.hk) websites
Sponsored by the Home Affairs Bureau of the HKSAR Government, three additional websites, namely YouthCLIC, SeniorCLIC and FamilyCLIC, are specifically developed from 2012 to 2014 for young people, senior people and families in Hong Kong respectively, discussing various legal issues which concern to them.
Special features are contained in YouthCLIC and SeniorCLIC websites to cater the needs for target viewers. For example, more than 20 videos are shown in YouthCLIC to illustrate different crime scenarios based on true cases. As for SeniorCLIC, much of the legal information provided on the website is also available in audio form. The 27 topics were summarized in audio clips of three to four minutes each. The audio clips and the transcripts of the clips are available for free download.
Currently, the average number of visitors for YouthCLIC and SeniorCLIC websites is about 150 to 200 per day.

