[title]Career Fair to Help Graduates Build a Solid Foundation[/title]
[date]12 Mar 2009[/date]
 

The Centre of Development and Resources for Students of HKU held a Careers Fair from March 10 to 13, 2009.  During this economic downturn, our approach is to help students to build a solid foundation now, by preparing in advance, thinking out of the box and learning-through-serving.  
For the four-day fair, the Centre organized different lunch-time activities and seminars with specific topics. On March 10, a drama "Everyone Can Be a Kung Fu Master" was performed by Chinese Martial Arts Association and Chinese Martial Arts Alumni Association with the aim of delivering a key message that job hunting and career planning need to start with the basics and personal qualities.   
Apart from inviting SMEs to hire on campus, we invited voluntary organizations to recruit students as volunteers.  We promoted the spirit of proactive volunteerism and encouraged students to acquire learning-through-serving. A group of volunteers shared their Sichuan service experience through music on March 11. 
One of the most popular events, "Apprentice@HKU", has been organized for four consecutive years.  For the past three weeks, 32 short-listed students attended group discussions, of which 4 candidates were selected for the final stage of competition. The finalists met again on stage to give a short presentation on "A Smarter Planet", which was a designated project of IBM Global Technology Services.  Additionally, they were also challenged with questions from the judging panel and other contestants.  
The panel of judges for the competition consisted of IBM Global Technology Services representatives - Albert Wong, Manager of Service Management, Seron Lo, Service Delivery Manager, and Herman Chan, Director of Careers and Placement, HKU. At the end Lester Fung Ka Kei (Year 4 student of Bachelor of Laws) and Bonita Wong Man Yin (Year 3 student of Bachelor of Business Administration [Law]) were selected to be the winners who will be awarded 2-month IBM internship contracts.     
For programme details, you can visit: http://cedars.hku.hk/careersfair/09/
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media) (Tel: 2859 2600/Email: hkumedia@hku.hk) 
From left : Lester Fung and Bonita Wong Man Yin
From left : Lester Fung, Wang Shuai, Bonita Wong Man Yin and Giselle Yuen Ting Chi
 
