[title]The University of Hong Kong Opens the Kunqu International Conference in Beijing[/title]
[date]08 Oct 2007[/date]
 
To celebrate the 6th anniversary of the inclusion of Kunqu in the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, a Kunqu International Conference is being held in Beijing from 8 to 11 October 2007.  A collaboration between the Research &amp; Development Project on Kunqu at The University of Hong Kong (HKU), the China Art Academy and Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre, and co-organised by the Cultural Industries Institute of Peking University, the four-day conference incorporates three performances (8-10 Oct 2007) of the classic A Youthful Rendition of the 'Peony Pavilion' produced by internationally renowned scholar, Professor Pai Hsien-yung (白先勇教授).
Special VIP guests invited to the opening ceremony of the conference included Mr CHEN Zuo-er, Deputy Minister of Hong Kong and Macao Affairs; Director WANG Zheng-Ming of the National Grand Theatre; Professor Lap-Chee TSUI, Vice-Chancellor and President of HKU; Professor Chack-Fan LEE, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU; Mr WANG Wen-Zhang, President of China Art Academy and other dignitaries from Suzhou. The conference will be followed by a presentation by Professor Pai, Honourable Chairman of the Research &amp; Development Project and Mr WANG Meng, renowned Chinese writer, on A Youthful Rendition of the 'Peony Pavilion' and contemporary world culture.
A cocktail reception hosted by Professor Lap-Chee TSUI on behalf of HKU was held on the evening of 8 October to welcome conference delegates. All participating guests joined the Kunqu performance after the reception.   
Professor Lap-Chee TSUI said: "HKU is fully committed to promoting cultural exchange between China and the world. As an internationally renowned university, we are committed to advancing Chinese traditional culture on the world stage. The Kunqu research project is a great undertaking and we are honoured to have Professor Pai Hsien-yung heading up the world's first comprehensive project on Kunqu's rich legacy. The project's mission is to ensure that this precious tradition is passed on through research work, the setting up of an archive, and the implementation of education and promotion programmes." 
Professor Pai Hsien-yung pointed out, "Over the last three years, A Youthful Rendition of the 'Peony Pavilion' has been welcomed by audiences around the world. The subjects of beauty and passion, in particular, have touched the hearts of the younger generation. With the valuable support of HKU, I am confident that our efforts will successfully keep the ancient Chinese art form of Kunqu alive." 
The conference comprises eight sessions over four days and is followed by a symposium hosted by Professor Pai. The theme of the conference is "Contemporary International Perspectives on Kunqu and the Peony Pavilion", while topics to be discussed include the cultural resonance of A Youthful Rendition of The Peony Pavilion; the passing on of Kunqu to future generations and its global development; the cross-cultural study of The Peony Pavilion as dramatic literature; the cross-cultural appreciation of Kunqu as a performing art; the significance of Kunqu as an intangible heritage of humanity; as well as other issues related to Kunqu and The Peony Pavilion. 
Representatives from Harvard University, The University of Tokyo, National University of Singapore, and a corps of over 60 internationally renowned operatic scholars from China, Taiwan and Hong Kong have been invited to join the media, cultural celebrities, Kunqu performers and directors at the seminar. The participants will come together to share their ideas, experiences and methods on how to promote, protect and preserve the Kunqu legacy. 
Culminating in a presentation of A Youthful Rendition of the 'Peony Pavilion', the conference provides an opportunity for local and foreign operatic scholars to exchange views on the development of Kunqu. The performance also offers participants to experience the appeal of Kunqu in contemporary theatre, and understand first-hand this precious legacy left by the Chinese to the world. 
Kunqu is Chinese culture in its purest form, an artistic blend of literature, history, music, dance and aesthetics. This precious tradition, named the mother of all kinds of Chinese Qu (opera), has been classified by UNESCO (United Nations, Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) as a Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity since 2001. 
The newly completed National Grand Theatre consists of three massive halls: an opera house, a concert hall and a theatre located in the centre, east and west wings respectively. The Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre has been invited to perform A Youthful Rendition of The Peony Pavilion, the only Kunqu play to be performed at the celebrations of the National Grand Theatre's inauguration. 
For further information, please contact Mr Kevin Chan or Ms Canny Au on 2827 2131. 

