[title]Establishment of the Asia Global Institute at the University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]27 Feb 2015[/date]
 
The Fung Global Institute and The the University of Hong Kong are pleased to announce they are deepening their collaboration by jointly establishing a new entity, to be called the Asia Global Institute, within the University.
To be inaugurated on July 1, 2015, the new Institute will assume and take forward the mission of the Fung Global Institute to be the leading research institute for Asian voices in the global community, and to generate and disseminate innovative research on global issues from Asian perspectives.
For the Fung Global Institute, this is a natural extension of its close relationship with the University, with whom it is co-located, and builds on multiple synergies between the two. It is an opportunity to take what the Fung Global Institute has successfully incubated over the past four years and raise it to the next level, with access over the long term to multi-disciplinary academic research and executive learning capacities involving the University’s faculties of Business and Economics, Social Sciences, Law and Engineering. For the University, the joint initiative is a welcome opportunity to accelerate its plans to establish a policy research think-tank on global issues.
The new Institute will be established with an endowment of HK$100 million from the Fung Global Institute, from which it will also receive intellectual properties from the Institute’s research thus far, plus a global network of experts, donors, corporate sponsors, government agencies and other think-tanks. The Fung Global Institute’s Founding Chairman, Dr Victor Fung, and Academic Council Chairman, Nobel Laureate Professor Michael Spence, have agreed to serve, respectively, as Chairman of the Advisory Board and Chairman of the Academic Council of the new Institute.
The Provost and the Deans of the participating faculties will comprise the Steering Committee providing direction and oversight to the Director of the Asia Global Institute. A global search is underway to identify a full-time Director to be known as the Victor and William Fung Endowed Professor.
In the interim, Professor Roland Chin, the University’s Provost, will provide oversight on the establishment and operation of the new Institute.
Media Contacts:
Yvonne Mak, External Relations Director, Fung Global Institute, Tel: 2300 2744
Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, The University of Hong Kong, Tel: 2859 2606
