[title]Dr Ambrose So Shu Fai’s Calligraphy Exhibition 
“Infusing the Past with the Present”
at The University of Hong Kong
[/title]
[date]02 Dec 2014[/date]
 


From left: Professor C F Lee (Deputy Chairman, HKU Foundation), Professor Rosie Young (Chairman, HKU Foundation), Dr Ambrose So (Director, HKU Foundation), Professor Peter Mathieson (President and Vice-Chancellor, HKU), Dr Patrick Poon (Deputy Chairman, HKU Foundation) &amp; Professor SP Chow (Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, HKU) officiate the opening ceremony of the exhibition
Dr Ambrose So Shu Fai has been invited by The University of Hong Kong Foundation for Educational Development and Research (HKU Foundation) to exhibit more than twenty pieces of his calligraphic works at the HKU Foundation Chamber. The exhibition is made possible with the generous support of Mr Colin Lam Ko Yin.
The exhibition was officiated on Tuesday, December 2, 2014 at the HKU Foundation Chamber by Professor Peter Mathieson (President and Vice-Chancellor, HKU), Professor SP Chow (Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, HKU), Professor Rosie Young (Chairman, HKU Foundation), Mr Colin Lam, Professor C F Lee and Dr Patrick Poon (Deputy Chairmen, HKU Foundation) and Dr Ambrose So Shu Fai (Director, HKU Foundation).
This is the second time that Dr Ambrose So Shu Fai holds his solo calligraphy exhibition at his alma mater, the first being held at the University Museum and Art Gallery of HKU in early 1999.  This exhibition celebrates at the same time the relocation of the HKU Foundation Chamber from Eliot Hall to Hung Hing Ying Building.
The exhibits include copying of carved stone tablet texts, and imitating inscriptions of axioms of wisdom of the Confucian, Buddhist and Daoist schools, as well as reference to brush strokes of recent masters, writing couplets combining excerpts of verse and prose from Tang and Song dynasties right up to modern times.
Professor Mathieson thanked Dr So for his love of his alma mater, and the Board of Directors of the HKU Foundation for their support.  Professor Mathieson expressed his admiration for Dr So’s calligraphy and asked for his advice as he is learning to write his name in Chinese.  Professor Rosie Young thanked Dr So for his continuing support of the HKU Foundation.  She said, “The HKU Foundation was launched in 1995 and has grown from 376 founding members to over 2600 members now. The HKU Foundation has supported the University in various areas including research, scholarships and development projects, through its investment income.”  Dr Ambrose So said in his speech, “I am very honoured to show you some of my calligraphic works at the HKU Foundation Chamber, under the central dome of this beautiful Hung Hing Ying Building.  The art of Chinese calligraphy is like that of architecture – form and function can change over time while drawing on the past – creating results that are everlasting.  In my own study of calligraphy I drew much inspiration from historical precedents – beginning by copying and imitating, before developing a personal style.  This experience is similar to the metamorphosis of the building, and hence I chose for the title of this exhibition ‘Infusing the Past with the Present’.”  Dr So hoped that people, through Chinese calligraphy, will come to appreciate more about Chinese culture, for edification and for promotion of harmony in society.
Dr Ambrose So is a member of the Board of Directors of the HKU Foundation, and an Honorary University Fellow of HKU.  He graduated with a Bachelor of Science from HKU in 1973.  Founder and Chairman of the Jiazi Society of Calligraphy since 1985, Dr So has held various solo exhibitions in Hong Kong, Macau, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Beijing and Taiwan, and his works have been collected by various notable universities and museums.  He also received a doctoral degree in management studies from IMC / Southern Cross University, and an honorary doctorate in social sciences from the University of Macau.  He was awarded the Medal of Merit – Culture by the Macau SAR Government in 2009, and the title of Comendador da Ordem do Mérito by the Portuguese Government in 2014.
The exhibition will continue until December 22, 2014, from Monday to Saturday, 9:30am to 6:00pm and on Sunday, 1:00pm to 6:00pm at the HKU Foundation Chamber, Hung Hing Ying Building, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong.  All are welcome.
Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media)) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media)), tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media)), tel : 2857 8555 / email : rhea.leung@hku.hk.

Dr. Ambrose So shows his calligraphic work to Professor Peter Mathieson, President and Vice-Chancellor of HKU

Dr. Ambrose So and family with Professor &amp; Mrs. Peter Mathieson and Ms. Angela Leong at the exhibition


