[title]HKU students link up via internet with Ewha Womans University students for new Korean Studies courses[/title]
[date]16 Oct 2011[/date]
 
This year, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has offered new Korean Studies courses jointly with Ewha Womans University (Ewha) in Seoul. The two universities jointly offer two special credit-bearing courses taught by professors from both HKU and Ewha. Lectures are broadcast to the classrooms of the two universities live through internet. Students and Professors in Hong Kong and Seoul can interact in real time with one another via video-link.
The two courses currently operating are "Understanding World Heritage in Korea"and "International Development and Cooperation in Korea". The lectures are conducted in English. Through internet live broadcast, professor and students in two places are able to see each other and have interaction.   
To enhance students' learning experience, apart from attending lectures conducted by professors in both places, students from the two universities are divided into groups and will work together and submit proposals. They can exchange contacts and communicate via internet. In the "International Development and Cooperation in Korea" course, students are involved in a project entitled "Famine 24". In this project, students will dedicate one day for "Famine 24" and in that particular day, they will spend no more than USD$1.25 (approx. HK$10), to experience extreme poverty life. Students in two universities will then exchange their views and findings and they need to submit individual paper.
Students from the courses with outstanding performances will have the chance to study in Korea in the summer of 2012, with a scholarship offered by the Korea Foundation.
The enrolment number of Korean Studies in HKU has showed an increasing trend since the University introduced a Korean language minor in 2008. The enrolment number doubled from 80 students in 2009-10 to 150 students last year. A Korean Studies major is planned to be introduced from next year under the four-year curriculum by the Faculty of Arts.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


 
HKU students can take Korean Studies courses together with students from Ewha Womans University through internet video link.
 
Classrooms from two universities are shown on screen live through internet.
 
Left screen: Students in Ewha responding to a question. Right screen: HKU classroom
 
HKU student raises a question to the lecturer and students in Ewha Womans University during class.
 
Korean Studies class at HKU



