[title]The International Media Conference got underway on the University of Hong Kong Campus[/title]
[date]26 Apr 2010[/date]
 

The International Media Conference got underway this morning at the Graduate House conference facility on The University of HongKong's picturesque hillside campus.
Conference participants and members of the Hong Kong press were welcomed by East-West Center President Charles E. Morrison and the Director of University of Hong Kong's Journalism and Media Studies Centre Professor Ying Chan, and the opening address was given by Dr. Roland Chin, Chair of Hong Kong's Research Grants Council.
Dr. Chin emphasized major efforts and investments underway to develop education centers of excellence in Hong Kong, China and Asia as a whole.
The first day of the conference is devoted to news issues related to "New Political and Economic Realities in the Asia Pacific."
China and its future on the world stage was a major focus of much of the first plenary session - "Shifting Power Relations in Asia and the Pacific." Much of the discussion centered on what China's relationship will be with the U.S., Japan, India and Southeast Asia.
Jin Canrong, a professor at Renmin University in China, said the future is very much in flux. "If you think of China as an adversary or enemy, then China will become an enemy," he said. "If you think of China as a friend, then it may become a friend."
Jin said China is looking inward, not outward, and its relationships are not focused on Chinese expansionism, for now. But, he said, it's very difficult to generalize about China because there are so many different points of view in the large and increasingly diverse country.
Another featured speaker, Dr Surin Pitsuwan, ASEAN Secretary-General spoke at noon on the topic entitled: "ASEAN as the Chief Architect in the Evolving Regional Architecture in Asia-Pacific."
Dr. Pitsuwan believes that the new realities of Southeast Asia are multi-dimensional. The dimensions to be considered include whether we can maintain economic growth, whether different countries can find solutions to their domestic problems and keep their societies harmonious.
In his speech, Surin made the case that the grouping of Southeast Asian Nations and its partnerships with other Asia Pacific powers, including China, Japan and Korea, can play a leading role in multilateral engagement throughout the region.
"In order to help East Asia grow, ASEAN is providing leadership, because we are a threat to none, and a friend to all," he said.
Speaking to the audience of around 200 journalists and media experts from some 30 countries, Surin quoted the American playwright Arthur Miller that a good newspaper "is a nation talking to itself."
He said he would like to see more of "an informed corps of reporters" working in Asia "because the world would like to know. And please make sure East Asia talks to itself - through your research, your reporting, and your analysis."
Dr Pitsuwan was a journalist, then a longtime Thai politician and was considered a serious contender to succeed Kofi Annan as UN Secretary General.
Other key speaker for the International Media Conference includes Hu Shuli, Editor-in-Chief of Caixin Media, a Beijing-based multi-media group will deliver a luncheon talk starting 11:45 a.m. on April 27, Tuesday at the Loke Yew Hall. Hu is highly regarded for founding the acclaimed financial publication, Caijing Magazine, in the late nineties. Hu was called the most powerful commentator in China by The Financial Times, and The Wall Street Journal cited her as one of the "Ten Women to Watch" in Asia.
An extensive roster of more than 40 workshops and discussions featuring top experts will explore such topics as:
News Issues:
 Shifting Power Relations
 Asia's Emerging Democracies
 The Environmental Dilemma
 U.S. Economy &amp; Foreign Policy Updates
 North Korea and Denuclearization
Media Issues:
 Press &amp; Internet Freedom
 Sustainable Media Models in the Internet Age
 Reporting Human Rights
 Reporting on Minorities
China Focus:
 Covering China
 The Future of Hong Kong
 Cross-Strait Relations
 Future of Media in China
Simultaneous translation in English/Putonghua provided for morning plenary sessions.
Conference Website: visit http://www.ewc50.org/mediaconference2010/  to view all conference details; updated conference agenda, conference logistics and other special conference content with up-to-date news, session summaries, video and more.
For media enquiries, please contact:
 Ms. Velentina Ma: 2219 4012/9123 0252 / velentinam@hku.hk
 Ms. Melanie Wan: 2859 2600 / melwkwan@hku.hk  
Dr. Roland Chin, Chair of Hong Kong’s Research Grants Council, greets the participants in the opening address
Dr Surin Pitsuwan, ASEAN Secretary-General, speaks at the luncheon


