[title]The HKU MBA has ascended by an impressive margin in Asia and Australasia in The Economist 2009 World MBA Ranking[/title]
[date]15 Oct 2009[/date]
 
The MBA Programme of the Faculty of Business and Economics at The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has received a remarkable boost in the 2009 World MBA Ranking by the renowned The Economist magazine.  In the 2009 Ranking announced by The Economist today, the HKU MBA ranks 38th among the world's top 100, up 20 places from 58th last year.  While other programmes in Asia and Australasia have either dropped or faired marginally better in this year's ranking, HKU MBA has catapulted ahead growing from strength to strength. 
Dr. Chris Chan (陳維康博士), Assistant Dean and Director of HKU's MBA Programme, said, "I am very proud of the HKU's MBA achievement and the recognition received from this prestigious publication.  In the last few years, we have made important strategic and curriculum changes and this new ranking demonstrates that our decisions are paying off.  From 2008, the MBA curriculum was revamped to include a strong dose of soft skills courses such as leadership, ethics, creativity and innovation, and communications, as well as to instill a stronger sense of social responsibility into the programme.  In addition, we developed six electives that focus on China/Asia business with interactive teaching methods and rich cultural content. We also incorporated strong language coaching and support for both International as well as Chinese students in both Putonghua and business English.  The HKU MBA offers an excellent international student mix, well-established connections within the business community, strong Asia-focused courses and teaching, and world-class partnerships with Columbia and London Business School, which enable all full-time MBA students to spend up to four months at these world-class schools as an integral component of their studies.  We are very proud that the HKU MBA has consistently been rated as one of the best programmes in the region.  Of course, we won't stop there - we will continue to strive to be the best." 
The HKU MBA has also worked closely with the Faculty's career office to provide highly focused career development and placement services to our students and prospective employers. Despite the recent financial crisis, we have been able to place a high percentage of our recent graduates at sought-after international positions with firms such as Goldman Sachs, Louis Vuitton, Deutsche Bank, Philips, Lancome, AIA, Santander Bank, Deloitte Consulting, ING, Blackrock, Tata Consulting Services, JP Morgan, to name a few. 
Although the full-time MBA programme at HKU has a relatively young history, the Faculty of Business and Economics has demonstrated impressive results in world rankings. Since entering The Economist Ranking in 2003, the HKU MBA has climbed to become one of the top 50 programmes in three short years. In addition, it has consistently been ranked as a top 50 programme overall and within top 5 in Asia and Australasia.  
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:  
Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
Personal development and educational experience
Increase salary
Potential to network
In 2009, the HKU MBA is ranked 8th in the world in personal development and educational experience overall, with special strength in education experience (2nd rank). After graduation, most students secure jobs within three months (top rank) and they earn significantly higher salary (10th rank).  Quality of faculty and student and recruiter diversity also received high ratings. 
For enquiries, please contact: Dr. Chris Chan, Assistant Dean and Director of MBA Programme of HKU, at telephone number: 9182 7811; email: chrischan@business.hku.hk

