[title]Joint Influenza Research Centre of Shantou University and the University of Hong Kong Response to H5N1 Research[/title]
[date]25 Jul 2005[/date]
 
The researchers at the Joint Influenza Centre of Shantou University and the University of Hong Kong (The Joint Centre) would like to convey their appreciation to the media for their concerns on the recent incident relating to the Joint Centre'sH5N1 research.A few points are listed below for clarifications:
(1) LABORATORY SAFETY
The research being done at the Joint Centre is directed at understanding the overall ecology of ALL influenza viruses, it is not a program specifically targeted at H5N1. Furthermore, the program is one of SURVEILLANCE and NOT an investigation of DISEASED poultry, the latter being a responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA). 
The Joint Centre's laboratory is in full compliance with the World Health Organization's bio-safety guidelines for such work on avian influenza viruses.
(2) THE NATURE PAPER PUBLISHED ON JULY 7, 2005 AND THE FINDINGS OF MOA
MoA announced on May 21, 2005, through a press release, its finding that the outbreak at Qinghai Lake was related to H5N1.
The researchers of the Joint Centre made the same discoveries and supported MoA's conclusion that the Qinghai Lake's outbreak was due to H5N1.The researchers submitted their findings to NATURE on May 25, 2005, and the paper was published on July 7, 2005.
The basic findings of researchers of the Joint Centre and MoA are similar. There however were different views on the source of the H5N1 virus, which resulted in the academic debate in the past week or so. The Joint Centre welcomes such scientific debate since that is how knowledge and science advance.
(3) ABIDING BY RULES AND REGULATIONS 
The new rules of the Central Government regarding deadly pathogens and handling of dead birds were issued on May 30, 2005 (i.e. after the submission by the Joint Centre of the NATURE paper on May 25, 2005) and were not brought to the attention of the researchers of the Joint Centre until rather recently.
The researchers at the Joint Centre met MoA officials on July 9, 2005, to seek clarifications of the new rules. A report which describes clearly the scope of the Joint Centre's research and the current measures to ensure laboratory safety has been submitted to the Ministry.The Joint Centre has also made an application to MoA for permission to work on "highly pathogenic micro-pathogens" in order to ensure all research is conducted within the legal requirements.In the meantime, the Joint Centre laboratory has ceased all H5N1-related research. 
The Joint Centre however has not been closed, nor has it ever been asked to do so. It indeed is continuing its research in many other areas. 
(4) ACADEMIC FREEDOM 
While the universities are prepared to take all necessary actions to safeguard academic freedom, they do not feel this is an issue relating to academic freedom. The universities welcome scientific debates and encourage the Joint Centre to seek necessary clarifications with the authorities on the new safety requirements in order for it to comply with such requirements. 
 
