[title]The Second Inauguration of Endowed Professorships at HKU[/title]
[date]17 Apr 2007[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated its Second Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 17).Officiated by Dr Victor K K Fung, Chairman of Council of HKU, the Inauguration Ceremony marked an unprecedented outpouring of generosity in support of the proud tradition of excellence at the University. 
Endowed Professorships at HKU are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon our distinguished academics.With a close partnership between the academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind. 
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which will be matched with an equal amount.The interests generated by the $20 million endowment will be used to support the respective area of academic excellence.An Advisory Committee ensures the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. 
The first eight Endowed Professorships were presented in 2005.A total of eighteen new Endowed Professorships were presented today, of which five are newly established positions where appointments are yet to be made (as asterisked in the list below). 
 
In alphabetical order by discipline:
1. Tung Lin Kok Yuen Professorship in Buddhist Art and Culture 
2. Glorious Sun Professorship in Buddhist Studies
(Incumbent: K L Dhammajoti)
3. Morningside Professorship in Chemical Biology
(Incumbent: Dan Yang)
4. Kerry Holdings Professorship in Commercial Law 
5. Chan Professorship in Constitutional Law 
(Incumbent: Albert H Y Chen)
6. Harold Hsiao-Wo Lee Professorship in Corporate Law 
(Incumbent: Philip St J Smart)
7. Henry G Leong Professorship in Economics 
(Incumbent: Wing Suen)
8. Quoin Professorship in Economic Development 
9. Quoin Professorship in Finance
(Incumbent: Eric C Chang)
10. Si Yuan Professorship in Health and Social Work
(Incumbent: Cecilia L W Chan)
11. Paul K C Chung Professorship in Jurisprudence 
12. Yu Chiu-Kwong Professorship in Medicine
(Incumbent: Lai Kar-Neng)
13. Albert Bing Ching Young Professorship in Ophthalmology
(Incumbent: David S H Wong)
14. Mok Hing-Yiu Professorship in Respiratory Medicine
(Incumbent: Lam Wah-Kit)
15. Henry G Leong Professorship in Social Work and Social Administration
(Incumbent: Nelson W S Chow)
16. Tam Sai-Kit Professorship in Spine Surgery
(Incumbent: Keith D K Luk)
17. Li Shu-Pui Professorship in Surgery 
18. Serena H C Yang Professorship in Vascular Surgery
(Incumbent: Stephen W K Cheng)
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office at 2241-5677 or Ms Jo Fan at 2241-5934.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Background information and photos of the Endowed Professors are available at http://www.hku.hk/ephku/
Snapshots of the Inauguration Ceremony will be available on the above webpage.
