[title]“Bridging Conservation and Development”
HKU Department of Geography hosts Geography Day 2014
[/title]
[date]23 Nov 2014[/date]
 



Board exhibition of geography-related work by various government departments, NGOs and private companies.
The Department of Geography at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and the Hong Kong Geographical Association co-organised the Hong Kong Geography Day 2014 yesterday (November 22).  
Geography Day is regarded as the most important event of the geography education and research community in Hong Kong. This biennial event aims to promote geography education in secondary schools and among the public, and to provide a platform for professional sharing. The main theme of this year’s Geography Day is “Bridging Conservation and Development: A Pathway to Sustainable Future”. The event discussed the current situation, issues and opportunities of socio-economic development as well as environmental and cultural protection in Hong Kong and elsewhere.  The various ways to achieve a sustainable future have also been explored.
An opening ceremony was held in the Wang Gungwu Lecture Hall on HKU Main Campus. Two keynote speeches were given by Ms Christine Loh Kung-wai, Under Secretary for the Environment, HKSAR Government; and Professor Jim Chi Yung, Chair Professor, HKU Department of Geography. A secondary school talk on “North East New Territories New Development Areas Planning: From a Geographical Perspective” was held. Three universities in Hong Kong including HKU, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Baptist University introduced their geography programmes. Various government departments, NGOs and private companies also set up booths to exhibit their geography-related work. Facilities at the HKU Department of Geography were also open to the public. It is estimated that about 450 people, including more than 260 secondary school teachers and students, participated in the event.
For more information about the event, please visit: http://geog.hku.hk/geoday/ or contact HKU Department of Geography Dr Li Jinbao (tel: 3917 7101 / email: jinbao@hku.hk).
For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (tel: 2857 8555 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk)

Ms. Christine Loh Kung-wai, Under Secretary for the Environment of HKSAR Environment Bureau gives a keynote speech on Hong Kong Geography Day 2014.

Professor Jim Chi-yung, Chair Professor in HKU Department of Geography presents awards to International Geography Olympiad winners.



