[title]Opening Ceremony of the Surgical Skills Centre[/title]
[date]06 May 2011[/date]
 
The Department of Surgery of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine is honoured to announce that the Surgical Skills Centre is officially opened today (May 6).
Acquisition of surgical skills
Acquisition of surgical skills has always been an important issue in the training of surgeons. Traditional apprenticeship is not an ideal training model because it is controversial to do skills training in human and patients availability varies from time to time. The stressful ambience in the operating theatre affects the learning process. Studies have shown that technical skills can be acquired in a more controlled environment with models, simulating programmes, animal models or cadavers.
With the advancement in medical technology, the complexity of operations has been increasing. New surgical techniques such as laparoscopic operations and other minimally invasive procedures emerged. A centre delegated to surgical skills training is hence essential for the training of surgeons.
Limitations of the current facilities
Animal model has been commonly used in the training and development of complicated surgical procedures, e.g. liver transplant. It is also one of the models in the training of laparoscopic and endoscopic surgery. It also plays an important role in research of new and novel surgical procedures before application in human, e.g. natural orifice surgery.
The Department Animal Experiment Laboratory was first established in 1960s. Though the environment and equipment has been continuously modernized throughout these years, it was not up to the current standard in the training of minimally invasive surgery.
About the Surgical Skills Centre
A brand-new Centre for training using models, stimulators and animal experiments is now in function. The new centre occupies a total area of 5300m2 and inside it 10 training stations are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for laparoscopic and endoscopic skills training. There is a lead-shielded area for training using fluoroscopy, e.g. vascular and cardiac procedures. Audio visual connection allowing telecommunication is also available for interactive meetings outside the premises.
The renovation work was completed in April 2011. Courses in laparoscopic skills and trauma have been organised. The Centre aims at providing better training for doctors, medical students and other medical personnel, as well as facilitating advanced research in subspecialties of surgery.
For news photos and powerpoint slides, please visit the website at:
http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases/

 
(From left)Professor LEE Sum-ping, Dexter HC Man Family Professor in Medical Science, Dean of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, Professor FAN Sheung-tat, Head of Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine and Professor LAW Wai-lun, Clinical Professor, Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine attended the opening ceremony of the Surgical Skills Centre and tried out the new facilities of the centre.
 
Professor LAW Wai-lun, Clinical Professor, Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine says the new Surgical Skills Centre, which is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, can provide better training for doctors.
 
Students are learning the endoscopy technique in the Surgical Skills Centre, Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.
 
Students are learning the endoscopy technique in the Surgical Skills Centre, Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.
 
(From left)Professor LEE Sum-ping, Dexter HC Man Family Professor in Medical Science Dean of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, Professor FAN Sheung-tat, Head of Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine and Professor LAW Wai-lun, Clinical Professor, Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine hosted the opening ceremony of the Surgical Skills Centre.



