[title]HKU Opens the Jockey Club Student Village II Where East Meets West in Serving the Community[/title]
[date]02 May 2006[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held a grand opening of the Jockey Club Student Village II today (2 May 2006).The opening ceremony, officiated by Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club the Hon. Ronald Arculli, was attended by HKU Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui in the presence of various prominent guests. 
The Jockey Club Student Village II creates a true blend of East and West as it is home to 900 local and international students from 23 countries, who demonstrated the University’s tradition of service to society in the first HKU Jockey Club Student Village Walkathon which raised some HK$40,000 for St. James Settlement Community Development Service last month.The cheuqe was presented today at the ceremony. The Walkathon will become an annual event to signify our commitment to serve the community.The Jockey Club Student Village II consists of three halls, namely Morrison Hall located at the Dexter H C Man Tower, Lee Shau Kee Hall and Suen Chi Sun Hall.Facilities include such as pantry, canteen, multi-purpose rooms and meeting rooms.
Halls of residence are a proud tradition of HKU.It is an integral part of whole-person education that aims at fostering social and cultural growth as well as intellectual development among students from diverse backgrounds and nationalities.Construction of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Student Village II is sponsored by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust which has been a supporter of HKU since 1957.The Trust also supported the construction of the Jockey Club Student Village I which was opened in 2002.
At today's grand opening, the Hon. Ronald Arculli, Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, said, "The Hong Kong Jockey Club has always placed great emphasis on promoting positive youth development.The Club's donations to HKU's student hostels since 1979 is testimony to the importance of good hostel facilities, which are not only conducive to study, but also to social interaction." He was pleased with the initiative of the HKU Jockey Club Student Village Walkathon as he said, "this is a very happy and meaningful development as it lays a foundation for the hall residents in building a spirit of "Giving to the Community" – the same spirit and philosophy that drive us at The Hong Kong Jockey Club."
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-chee Tsui expressed his gratitude for the support of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, "Since 1957, The Hong Kong Jockey Club has sponsored over 50 projects at HKU. Together we have been "building excellence" and there are many examples across our campus where this is not just a philosophy, but which physically stand as testaments to the Jockey Club's commitment to our endeavours" he said. 
The Hong Kong Jockey Club was founded in 1884 and has been donating its surplus funds to community and charitable projects since 1915.The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust was established to oversee the distribution of the Jockey Club's separate funds for charities.Through donations the Trust supports those in need in four areas: medical and health, community services, education and training, and sports, recreation and culture.
For photos of the event please click in http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia/ and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery".
For enquires please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU at 2859 2606.
