[title]HKU Vice-Chancellor receives various awards[/title]
[date]08 Dec 2004[/date]
 
The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, was recently honoured by several organizations.
At a recent ceremony held for the first time in Hong Kong, Professor Tsui received the Distinguished Alumni Fellow Award from the University of Pittsburgh's Alumni Association. In its citation for the award, only 35 of which were given so far, the Chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh Mark A. Nordenberg praised Professor Tsui for his research which identified the gene that caused cystic fibrosis. The citation also said Professor Tsui is now dedicated to "providing high quality education and the fostering of ideas that are important to the future success of Hong Kong and its region." The University of Pittsburgh selects 3 recipients every year from among its 220,000 alumni to receive the awards.
The Distinguished Alumni Fellows Award of the University of Pittburgh was first presented in 1993 at the annual Founders Day/Honors Convocation event. Professor Tsui received a framed certificate and Distinguished Alumni Medallion as a memento of the occasion. The award was presented by the University Chancellor and Alumni Association President Keith E. Schafer. 
During his recent North American tour in late October and early November, Professor Tsui received two awards from organizations in San Francisco. The Distinguished Physician &amp; Medical Scientist Award 2004 came from the Chinese American Physicians' Society (CAPS). The Annual Award Banquet was held at the Oakland Asian Cultural Center, where Professor Tsui spoke on "Genetics in Metabolic Disease".
Formed by a group of concerned physicians of Chinese descent in 1977 in the San Francisco area, one of the objectives of the CAPS is the elimination of racial prejudice and discrimination in all facets of the medical profession. It is a corporate member of the Federation of Chinese American and Chinese Canadian Medical Societies (FCMS).
Also in San Francisco, Professor Tsui received the 31st Annual Award of the Chinese Hospital. The Hospital is a unique healthcare provider with a long and rich history of providing access to culturally competent health care services for the Chinese community. It traces its roots to the beginning of the last century when in 1900, the Tung Wah Dispensary opened in San Francisco's Chinatown. Located now in Jackson Street, San Francisco, it has a bed capacity of 54 beds.
"I am very honoured by these awards," said Professor Tsui. "They certainly encouraged me to devote greater efforts to scientific research and the good management of our University to contribute to the betterment of the society and for the region," he added.
For further enquiries, please contact Ms. Polo Leung of the External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
