[title]HKU to Present Honorary University Fellowships to Five Distinguished People[/title]
[date]13 Dec 2003[/date]
 
Five outstanding individuals will receive the Honorary University Fellowship on December 16, 2003. The Fellowships will be presented by Dr the Honourable David K.P. Li, Pro-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU).
The recipients of the Honorary University Fellowships will be:
The Honourable Mr Justice Patrick Chan Siu Oi, Permanent Judge of the Court of Final Appeal and an alumnus of the University, has made many contributions to his alma mater. He is a member of our Council and has been actively involved in the review of the University's governance and management. In particular, he has rendered invaluable service to the Faculty of Law. Without his assistance many meaningful programmes may not have reached fruition.
Mr Moses Cheng Mo Chi is a practicing solicitor and senior partner of Messrs P.C. Woo and Company. He is also an alumnus of the University and has distinguished himself as an active member of the Hong Kong community. He is a former Legislative Councilor, a member of the Education Commission of Hong Kong, Chairman of the Council and Court of the Baptist University and a member of the Court and Standing Committee of the HKU Convocation.
Mr Linus Cheung Wing Lam is Deputy Chairman of PCCW Limited. An alumnus of the University he has led a distinguished career in management. He is a former Deputy Managing Director of Cathay Pacific Airways and was Executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc in the United Kingdom. He has worked as a member of the HKU Council and is a member of its Finance Committee. He is a member of HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE) and the Chairman of HKU SPACE Community College Advisory Board.
Professor Leung Nai Kong is a leading paediatrician and HKU alumnus. A former Chief Executive of Princess Margaret Hospital he is Honorary Professor in the HKU Faculty of Medicine. He has been actively involved in planning educational activities under the new medical curriculum and is a member of the Faculty's Medical Education Unit. Professor Leung has played an instrumental part in founding the University's Medical Alumni Association and has been a member of the Association's Executive committee since its formation in 1999.
Mr Lim Por Yen is a successful businessman and renowned philanthropist. He is founder of the Lai Sun Group and has been Executive Director of the company since 1959. His generosity has seen him donate more than HK$600 million to charity over the years. He has supported education, healthcare and culture in Hong Kong and China. He has generously donated HK$2 million to the HKU Foundation as one of its Founding Honorary Presidents. His donation of HK$20 million was an enormous boost to the University's SARS Fund and to the establishment of the Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole.
The Honorary University Fellowships were created in 1995 as a mark of the distinction and esteem with which the recipients are held by the University and to better relationships with the community.
The presentation ceremony will be held at 6:00pm on Tuesday, December 16, 2003 in Rayson Huang Theatre on the University's main campus. Member of the Press are cordially invited to attend.
