[title]HKU and HKU SPACE issue a joint statement on a suspected fraud case related to a fee-paying training programme organized under their name[/title]
[date]02 Aug 2012[/date]
 
HKU and HKU SPACE issue a joint statement on a suspected fraud case related to a fee-paying training programme organized under their names as follows:
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and the HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE) would like to draw the public’s attention to a suspected fraud case concerning a fee-paying programme claimed to be organised by the two institutions.
The programme, named “香港大學企業高層領導者訪學考察短訓班” and scheduled to be held in late August 2012 in Hong Kong, has been openly inviting applications with senior management members of enterprises as target participants. Courses are said to be held on HKU campus and lectures delivered by HKU professors. The graduation certificate is said to be granted by HKU SPACE Centre for Executive Development and Corporate Training.
HKU and HKU SPACE became aware of the case following receipt of enquiries about the programme. Subsequent investigation has found that the programme and its arrangements have no relations at all to the two institutions. The case has been reported to the Police in view of the findings.
HKU and HKU SPACE are concerned that members of the public may be misled by the publicity of the programme. They wish to advise those who have enrolled in the programme to seek police assistance.
For information and verification of programmes offered by HKU SPACE Institute for China Business (ICB), please visit the School’s website at: http://www.hkuspacechina.com/, or contact Ms. Kong or Ms. Chan at （852) 2975 5779/ 5736 or via email: icbcep@hkuspace.hku.hk for enquiries.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Emily Chu, Assistant Manager (Media Relations) of HKU SPACE tel: 2975, 5854 / email: emily.chu@hkuspace.hku.hk .; or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
