[title]HKU Salutes Distinguished Academics for Teaching and Research Excellence[/title]
[date]22 Jan 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held its Award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching and Research 2007 today (January 22) to honour and celebrate the dedication and outstanding teaching and research achievements of distinguished colleagues.
HKU Pro-Chancellor, Dr. The Hon. David Li Kwok-Po, the Guest of Honour of the ceremony, and Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, together with over 200 guests, shared moments of pride and joy with the award recipients.
Speaking at the opening of the ceremony, Professor Tsui reiterated the determination of the University in pursuing excellence. He said: "Our prowess in teaching and research lies at the heart of our reputation, and it is right that we should acknowledge our colleagues whose performances have helped boost this reputation. Not only does this ceremony give us an opportunity for thanking them, but I hope it will also encourage others to follow their fine example."
It is the seventh year the University has held the award ceremony to salute colleagues who excel in their teaching and research. Altogether, 24 awards were granted to distinguished academics in 6 categories, including teaching fellows, remarkable researchers, and outstanding research publications of the 10 Faculties.
Professor Vivian Yam Wing-Wah, Chair Professor of Chemistry, was presented the University's highest research award - "The Distinguished Research Achievement Award" conferred every other year - at today's ceremony.
Professor Yuen Kwok-Yung, Head of the University's Department of Microbiology and Henry Fok Professor in Infectious Diseases, was also honoured at the ceremony for recently being elected to be a Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. To date, only 6 out of the 721 members of the Academy, one of the highest academic distinctions offered in the Mainland, are Hong Kong scholars.
In his closing remarks, HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr. The Hon. David Li Kwok-Po said the high calibre of the awardees today indicated that "the University has a solid basis of achievement to build upon, and that it has both the talent and determination to lift its high reputation even further." He was confident that these assets could enable HKU to embrace the challenges and seize the opportunities of the forthcoming implementation of the 4-year curriculum, and to "enter its second century of existence in a mood of high and deserved confidence."
For the list of award recipients, please visit:-  http://www.hku.hk/award/award_recipients.html 
Photos of the Ceremony will be available after 7:30pm today. Please click in http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia and check icon "Photo Gallery".
For enquiries, please contact Senior Manager (Media) Ms Cherry Cheung (Tel: 2859 2606 / E-mail: cherry.cheung@hku.hk); or Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
