[title]Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui reappointed by HKU Council[/title]
[date]07 Nov 2006[/date]
 
The Council of The University of Hong Kong is pleased to announce that after consultation with the Senate, as stipulated in the Statutes of the University, as well as staff, students and alumni, has today resolved to invite Professor Lap-Chee Tsui to continue the Vice-Chancellorship for 5 years from September 1, 2007.
Council Chairman Dr Victor Fung was delighted with the Council's decision, and said, "The overwhelming display of support in Senate and Council in favour of extending Professor Tsui's Vice-Chancellorship is an acknowledgement of the leadership he has brought to the position and the outstanding accomplishments he has made with the HKU community during his first term. I am of course very pleased with the Council's decision and the response of the University community. I am confident that with Professor Tsui's leadership, HKU will continue to strengthen its heritage of academic and research excellence, and enhance its standing amongst the top tier of universities around the world."
Mr Christopher Cheng, Council member and Convenor of the Working Group for Collection of Views on the Reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor said, "The collection of views has been a transparent process and open to the entire HKU community. I am gratified to say that the Working Group received a large number of responses from right across the University community. The comments themselves have been supportive of Professor Tsui, and I have been frequently told that he is a sensible, sensitive, open-minded and hardworking leader who has done a good job."
Professor Johannes M M Chan, University staff member of the Council (elected by University members of the Council for the Working Group) said, "The results of the consultation exercise clearly show that there is strong support for the reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor from almost all quarters of the University. But where there have been concerns, these are healthy phenomena too; a large and dynamic institution requires a full range of views from its stakeholders – which includes constructive criticism – in order to progress. Personally, I was both touched and impressed by the feedback of the Community, who clearly have the best interests of the University at heart."
Mr H C Wong, student member of the Council (elected from the two student members of the Council for the Working Group) said, "The views collected show that students and student associations generally support the reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor. While some students pointed out specific areas of concern that related to the University itself, their support for Professor Tsui's reappointment was unmistakable, and it is worth noting that no negative views have been received."
On hearing the news, Professor Tsui himself declared, "This is of course a great honour for me. I am grateful for the candid and sincere feedback from the HKU community. It is this spirit of support and dedication to the University which has allowed us to accomplish many historic achievements together in the past four years. Together, I believe we can move forward confidently to meet new and exciting challenges ahead."
