[title]University Review Panel Begins Work in Three Stages[/title]
[date]17 Sep 2011[/date]
 
Panel aims to complete report within shortest possible time
The Review Panel set up by the Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to examine issues arising from the Centenary Ceremony on 18 August 2011, meeting for the first time today (17 September), will conduct the review in three stages and is aiming to complete its task within the shortest possible time.
The three stages of the Panel's work include fact finding, collecting comments and formulating recommendations to the Council.
Speaking to the media after the meeting, Mr Lester Garson Huang, Convenor of the Panel, said the Panel was tasked to make recommendations to the Council on improving arrangements and establishing appropriate mechanisms and policies for University events in the future, to ensure that HKU would continue its commitment to freedom, liberty and diversity and would always remain a place for freedom of expression.
"The Panel will continue to invite the HKU Students' Union to reconsider nominating an undergraduate student to join the Panel, or to attend the Panel's meetings as observer," said Mr Huang, adding that the Panel would strive to ensure that undergraduate students' views will be heard under all circumstances.
The Panel is planning to meet every week or fortnight on average. Mr Huang said the workload would be heavy but the Panel aimed to complete its task within the shortest possible time.
The Panel has explored today whether panel meetings should be opened to the public. Mr Huang said there was no conclusion yet and the Panel would discuss the matter again in the next meeting.
In the first stage of fact finding, the Panel will invite university departments involved in organizing the 18 August event to provide information. The Panel will listen to different views and comments in the second stage. Afterwards, the Panel will submit its report to the Council with recommendations.
A dedicated email address (reviewpanel@hku.hk ) has been set up for the Panel to collect information and comments.
The Panel will hold its next meeting on 29 September 2011.
-END-
This press release is issued on behalf of the Review Panel set up by the Council of the University of Hong Kong to examine issues arising from the Centenary Ceremony on 18 August 2011.
For media enquiries, please contact Mr K.K. Yuen of A-World Consulting Limited.
Tel: 2114 2070 / 9677 8868, Email: kk.yuen@a-world.com.hk
