[title]HKU holds Inauguration Ceremony for New Students 2014[/title]
[date]27 Aug 2014[/date]
 

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (August 28) held an inauguration ceremony to welcome its new students. Over 3,500 new undergraduate students were admitted into various programmes this academic year.
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, who officiated at the ceremony for the first time, welcomed
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson
and congratulated students for earning themselves the opportunity to study at HKU. He encouraged students to “seize that opportunity, work hard, play hard, learn and grow.”
He said: “My job is to ensure that HKU provides you with the environment to maximize your potential: teaching and learning that is responsive to your needs and wishes, extra-curricular activities that allow you to develop your skills outside your major academic subjects and experiential and service learning that allow you to start the process of giving back to society.  My challenge to you today is to seize this opportunity: cherish it, work hard, take advantage of the environment provided for you and ensure that you grow and mature as an adult and as a citizen."
Professor Mathieson said students must learn and mature into a responsible citizens that can play a major role in society. He said: “The cornerstone of a University is freedom of thought, of speech, and of assembly. It is with freedom that academia can flourish with no bounds and no fear in pursuing ideals. It is with freedom that we, faculty and students alike, can create new knowledge and new ways of thinking. The University of Hong Kong is a place of liberty and diversity. Here, you will meet people with different views from your own, from different cultures and different backgrounds. Their freedoms are just as important as yours. You must learn to respect them, just as you expect them to respect you.
“At HKU, we regard you as adults now. We will treat you as adults and you must learn to become conscientious and responsible members of the University and of society. We will protect your freedom of speech and your freedom of expression, in return we will expect you to take responsibility for your actions.” He added that students should understand the powers of persuasion and negotiation to reach consensus or to “agree to differ” when no consensus can be reached.
Finally, Professor Mathieson invited students to work together with him, to use their university education to advance themselves and to help him to advance the University on the global stage. He said: “HKU is a fine university, highly regarded all over the world and with a long and distinguished history. However, I am not satisfied with that: I want more. My vision for the University is to make it indisputably world class, not just one of the best universities in Asia but one of the best in the world. Together we can realise that vision. Wherever you go, or work, or live, you will stand for the spirit of HKU and you can help me to show the world that HKU is the best.”
The Guest of Honour Mr. Benjamin Hung, Regional Chief Executive Officer, Greater China, Standard Chartered Bank (Hong
The Guest of Honour Mr. Benjamin Hung
Kong) Limited, encouraged students to pursue their dreams. He said: “As part of a select and elite group, do not underestimate the impact you will be having on Hong Kong and the wider society’s future.  As you try to pursue your dreams, make sure you strike a good balance between winning over not just with bright ideas but through people’s hearts and minds; you exert confidence but with humility; and you strive for your ambition with responsibility and conscience.”
Other HKU members who delivered welcoming addresses at the Ceremony were Dean of Student Affairs Dr. Albert Chau, Chairman of Convocation Mr. Choi Sau Yuk and President of the Hong Kong University Students' Union Miss Yvonne Leung.
For media enquiries, please contact the Communication and Public Affairs Office: Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk; Ms Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media), tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk; or Ms Rhea Leung Manager (Media), tel: 2857 8555 / email: rhea.leung@hku.hk or media enquiry hotline: 6347 2221.




Dean of Student Affairs Dr. Albert Chau

Chairman of Convocation Mr. Choi Sau Yuk 



HKUSU President Miss Yvonne Leung





