[title]HKU mathematician Professor Mok Ngai-ming
elected as Member of Chinese Academy of Sciences[/title]
[date]08 Dec 2015[/date]
 


Professor Mok Ngai-ming
Professor Mok Ngai-ming, Edmund and Peggy Tse Professor in Mathematics, Chair of Mathematics, was elected a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Mathematics and Physics) during the meeting held in Beijing on December 7, 2015. Professor Mok is the only local scholar attaining such achievement in the election this year.
Professor Mok is utmost delighted for the honor. “I am very honoured and very happy to have been elected as Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. My election represents not only a recognition of my academic achievements in Mathematics but also an acknowledgement of my long years of significant contribution to the development of Mathematics in Hong Kong and in Mainland China,” he said. HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson congratulated Professor Mok on his being elected as a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Professor Mathieson said: “This distinguished award is a recognition of the importance of Professor Mok’s contributions to mathematical research and helps to strengthen even more HKU’s research standing nationally and globally. The University is proud of his accomplishments and grateful to him for his commitment to HKU over the past two decades. We offer him our warmest congratulations on this outstanding achievement.”

Founded in 1955, Academic Divisions of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CASAD), CASAD has served as an advanced national think-tank to the Chinese Government on major science and technology issues. The Government attaches much importance to this scientific community. The fact that the biannual General Assembly of CAS Members usually convened in the first week of June in an even-numbered Gregorian calendar year is always attended by top Chinese leaders is an indication. Today this learned body consists of six divisions, respectively in mathematics and physics, chemistry, life and medical sciences, earth sciences, information technical sciences and technological sciences, which help organize and carry out strategic studies and advice on different topics. There were 61 Members and 12 Foreign Members elected in the meeting this year.
About Chinese Academy of Sciences
http://english.casad.cas.cn/
About Professor Mok Ngai-ming
Professor Mok was a graduate of St. Paul's Co-educational College in 1975. He obtained his PhD at Stanford University in 1980 and embarked on his teaching and research life at Princeton University, Columbia University and University of Paris afterwards. Upon his return to Hong Kong in 1994, he has been teaching at HKU in the Department of Mathematics. Professor Mok’s research interests encompass Several Complex Variables, Differential Geometry and Algebraic Geometry. He is recognized worldwide for his research achievements. The prestigious awards he had received include the Sloan Fellowship Award (US), Presidential Young Investigator Award (US), Croucher Award 1998 (Hong Kong), Second-class Award of State Natural Science Award 2007 (Mainland China), and the Bergman Prize of the American Mathematical Society 2009. Professor Mok was elected to serve on the Editorial Board of Inventiones Mathematicae for 2002-2014. He served as a member of the Fields Medal Committee for the world's prestigious International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) in 2010, and was a core member for the subject panels of Algebraic Geometry and Complex Geometry in ICM 2006, and in Analysis and its Applications in ICM 2014.  As the Director of HKU Institute of Mathematical Research, Professor Mok also strives at providing a platform where researchers in Mathematics can freely exchange their research ideas, and create an ambiance which facilitates the cross-fertilization between different fields of Mathematics.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Rhea Leung, HKU Communications and Public Affairs Office  (tel: 2857 8555/  email: rhea.leung@hku.hk), or Ms Cindy Chan, HKU Faculty of Science (tel: 3917 5286/  email: cindycst@hku.hk ).
