[title]HKU TO AWARD SIX HONORARY DEGREES[/title]
[date]06 Mar 2004[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is to confer honorary degrees upon six outstanding individuals at the 169th Congregation on March 18, 2004, at the Loke Yew Hall of HKU. The honorary degrees recipients are:
Doctor of Laws honoris causa
- The Honourable Michael D Kadoorie, chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd and CLP Holdings Ltd
Doctor of Letters honoris causa
- Ms Chan Shuk Leung (Pak Suet Sin), Cantonese opera star
Doctor of Science honoris causa
- Professor Arnold George Dominic Maran, Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology at the University of Edinburgh
- Madam Qian Zhengying, Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering
Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa
- Mr Darwin Chen, chairman of the Hong Kong Arts Development Council
- Mrs Mary Gray Rodrigues, former chairman of HKU Convocation

The Honourable Michael D Kadoorie is chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd and CLP Holdings Ltd. He also holds a number of directorships in public and private companies.
As trustee of the Kadoorie Charitable Foundation, and in a personal capacity, Mr Kadoorie is a renowned philanthropist. The Foundation has generously funded agricultural projects and schools in Hong Kong. In 2000 the Kadoorie Biological Sciences Building was opened at the HKU in memory of the Honourable Michael Kadoorie's father, Lord Kadoorie.
In line with his interest in education Mr Kadoorie had been a member of the University Council for a decade since 1993.
In 2003 he was awarded a Gold Bauhinia Star by the Government of the Hong Kong SAR. The Honourable Michael D Kadoorie will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws honoris causa.
Ms Chan Shuk Leung (stage name: Pak Suet Sin) is one of Cantonese opera's most enduring stars. As a young novice Ms Chan appeared in many supporting roles with a number of well-known companies and, in 1956, formed the Sin Fung Ming Theatre Company with her collaborator, Ms Yam Kim Fai and reached a new peak as an artist.
Her career epitomizes the artist's achievements and contributions to Chinese traditional culture. As an opera singer she has won widespread acclaim. But she has also been a dedicated teacher of younger generations. She has placed much effort on advocating the preservation of Chinese opera and on promoting the art.
In 1990 she established the Yam-Pak Charitable Foundation to support research into Cantonese traditional dramatic art. In 1996 she was made a Honorary Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts and the following year received an Honorary University Fellowship from HKU.
Ms Chan Shuk Leung will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Letters honoris causa.
Professor Arnold George Dominic Maran is Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology at the University of Edinburgh, and past-president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.
Professor Maran's long and distinguished service to the academic medical profession has won him wide acclaim internationally and has made an immense professional impact on many countries around the world. He has taken an active part in both clinical and basic research, and published many important scientific papers and books. He is also a keen educator and his book on ‘Head and Neck Surgery' is considered the Bible for all candidates taking the fellowship exam.
Since 1969, Professor Maran has been a visiting professor to more than 20 universities worldwide, including HKU.
Professor Maran's sustained and continuing effort in ensuring a high standard of training and practice for Hong Kong is widely admired.
He will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.
Madam Qian Zhengying is an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. She has been Vice-Chairman of the 7th, 8th and 9th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
She enrolled in the Department of Civil Engineering of Datong University in Shanghai, in 1939, and took an active role in the student movement.
She went on to become an eminent engineer in water resources and electric power. She has been the mastermind behind many key water conservancy projects in China since 1944, and has contributed greatly to the management of water resources on the mainland.
She has also provided leadership and professional advice on the construction of many massive dams and power plants which have greatly mitigated flood hazards along the Lower Yellow River. In 1999, she was also appointed by the State Council to head a study group for monitoring the construction quality of the Three Gorges Project.
Madam Qian Zhengying will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.
Mr Darwin Chen has enjoyed a distinguished career highlighted by services to the community. He is currently chairman of the Hong Kong Arts Development Council and his achievements in this area have already received recognition through the conferment of Fellowships from HKU and the Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts. In 2003, he was awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star (SBS) by the Government of the Hong Kong SAR.
During his years in the civil service Mr Chen was manager of City Hall and later Director of Cultural Services. One of his initiatives was to assist the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra and the Hong Kong Ballet to achieve professional status.
Mr Chen is an alumnus of HKU SPACE and has supported the School by participating in its senior policy and decision-making bodies. Mr Chen also serves HKU as Honorary Consultant of the Development and Alumni Affairs Office and member of various committees.
He serves on the Government's Social Welfare Advisory Committee, the Hong Kong Council for Social Service, the Hong Kong Christian Service, the Hong Kong Digestive Foundation and St. Christopher's Home. He is also the vice-chairman of the Agency for Volunteer Service.
Mr Chen will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.
Mrs Mary Gray Rodrigues is a graduate of HKU who has remained closely committed to her alma mater. She has served the University in various roles for 25 years, including her involvement as Convocation Chairman and Council member for almost a decade.
During her chairmanship of Convocation, she played a pivotal role in re-defining how graduates help their alma mater. She pioneered a more systematic approach to graduates' contributions to the University. This included an affinity credit card which, since its inception in 1993, has brought in some HK$52 million in funds to the HKU Foundation for research and academic development of the University.
She has also helped strengthen bonds between town and gown. She had made good use of her professional and personal network to encourage graduates to offer their expertise and connections to the benefit of the University. She has herself exemplified such contributions in her memberships on various university committees.
Mrs Mary Gray Rodrigues will be conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.
The 169th Congregation will be held at the Loke Yew Hall, Main Campus, the University of Hong Kong at 5:30pm, on March 18, 2004.

