[title]Agreements Foster Academic Cooperation Between HK and Korean Law Schools[/title]
[date]18 Feb 2011[/date]
 


Students and teachers from Faculty of Law, The University of Hong Kong; Kyung Hee University, College of Law and University of Seoul, School of Law.

To promote academic, research and cultural exchanges between law students and faculties in Hong Kong and Korea, The University of Hong Kong, Faculty of Law has entered into an agreement respectively with Korea's Kyung Hee University, College of Law and University of Seoul, School of Law on 18 February 2011.
In the presence of more than 50 law students and teachers from Japan and Korea, HKU and the two Korean universities committed to promote academic cooperation including exchange of students and faculties, journals and research materials; and to jointly organize activities such as research projects or symposia.
Professor Johannes Chan, SC (Hon), Dean of Law at the University of Hong Kong,  looked forward to such collaboration. "Through a variety of collaborative efforts, we hope our students would have a better understanding and appreciation how history, economics and cultural values interact with the law in other jurisdictions." Professor Wan-Yong Chung, Dean of Law, Kyung Hee University and Professor Chung Hae Kang of the University of Seoul also welcomed the agreement, which will provide with their students and researchers more learning and sharing opportunities at one of the best law schools in the region.
College of Law, Kyung Hee University
Kyung Hee University is considered as one of the top institutions of higher learning in Asia and has celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2009. The College of Law, embracing the University slogan, "Democratization of campus life and ideas", aims to provide students with a top-notch professional education in the legal sciences.
To read more about Kyung Hee University College of Law, visit: http://www.khu.ac.kr/eng/index.jsp
School of Law, University of Seoul
The University of Seoul's School of Law aims to produce well-trained leaders and competent jurists (lawyers) who contribute to the legal, administrative, political, social and economic sectors of the nation. In order to achieve these goals, it offers a curriculum based on a study of humanities and social sciences in general and specialized legal knowledge.
To read more about University of Seoul, visit: english.uos.ac.kr/
Faculty of Law, The University of Hong Kong 
The Faculty of Law of the University of Hong Kong is the oldest law school in Hong Kong and one of the most prestigious law schools internationally. It has been training graduates who are today distinguished legal professionals and leaders of the Hong Kong community.
To read more about HKU Faculty of Law, visit: www.hku.hk/law

