[title]Lecture Delivered by Earthworks Design Expert from Cambridge University at HKU's William Mong Distinguished Lecture[/title]
[date]30 Aug 2005[/date]
 
The challenges that Hong Kong faces with regard to slope safety are unique in the world. This brings our attention to earthworks and foundations design which is the theme of the William Mong Distinguished Lecture delivered by Professor Malcom Bolton today. Prof. Bolton is a current member of the Hong Kong Slope Safety Technical Review Board, a committee established to advise the HK Government on technical aspects of slope safety. He is Professor of Soil Mechanics and Director of the Schofield Centre for Geotechnical and Construction Modeling, Cambridge University and recipient of the Sir Benjamin Baker Silver Medal of the UK Institution of Civil Engineers.
Entitled “Performance-based design of earthworks and foundations", the lecture is organized by the Faculty of Engineering and has taken place today at 5:30pm on Tuesday, August 30, 2005, at Lecture Theatre A, Chow Yei Ching Building, the University of Hong Kong.
Avoiding earthworks and foundations failures are key concerns to designers, engineers and practitioners. Trying to provide an answer to their concerns, Prof. Bolton introduced a new design method based on plasticity theory that satisfies safety and deformation criteria, illustrated by comparisons of field studies. In his lecture, Prof. Bolton also addressed current problems in the relationship between research, teaching and codes of practices in Civil Engineering.
Prof. Bolton specializes in soil mechanics and soil-structure interaction. He has contributed significantly towards experimental research in a wide range of practical problems including slope stability, reinforced fill, retaining walls and excavation support systems, submarine pipelines, piling and ground treatment processes. His contributions in retaining walls and reinforced soils earned him the Sir Benjamin Baker Silver Medal awarded by the UK Institution of Civil Engineers. Prof. Bolton is Chairman of ISSMGE TC35 Geomechanics of Particulate Materials. He has published over 160 research papers on a wide range of topics.
For enquiries, please contact Miss Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer of HKU at 2859-2606.
August 30, 2005
