[title]HKU Marathon Team Won the Top Prize of the Most Supportive Group Award and other awards in Standard Chartered HK Marathon 2006[/title]
[date]13 Feb 2006[/date]
 
The Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2006 finished yesterday (12 February 2006).Among close to 40,000 participants, two HKU students came in as runners-up in the Half Marathon Category and the 1,100-strong HKU Marathon Team won the Top Prize of the Most Supportive Group Award. 
It was the first time HKU has its own team to participate in the Marathon.With "United We Run! " as its slogan, the team enjoyed overwhelming response from over 1,100 HKU alumni, students, staff and friends.In addition, over 100 members and friends of HKU Support Team volunteered to join. 
Vice Chancellor Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui is delighted when he says, "the number of participants far exceeds our expectation.Once again, we demonstrated our team spirit of the HKU family".After officiating at the HKU start-off ceremony at 6am, Prof. Tsui joined the Men (Master) 10KM Category and finished in about one hour and thirty minutes. 
Prof. Tsui thanked Dr Paul Cheung, Chairman of the HKU Marathon Team Organizing Committee, for his leadership in mobilizing wide-spread support among members of the University and in achieving remarkable results.Dr Paul Cheung says, "through participating in the race, I hope to train the endurance and perseverance, as well as body stamina of members of the HKU family which will help us face the challenges at different stages of life."
The two HKU students who won in the Half Marathon Categories were Ms. Rachel SPROSTON and Ms. Jennie Ching-Yi LAU. 
Rachel SPROSTON, a student of Postgraduate Diploma in Education, won the third place in the Senior 2 category of Half Marathon, with a time result of 1:30:44. For her HKU schooldays, she always runs for 12KM from North Point, where she works, to the HKU campus for classes. She participated in Full Marathon for the last two years, and she joined the Half Marathon category for the first time this year as she has to prepare for another full marathon competition in London shortly.
Jennie Ching-Yi LAU, a first-year student of Bachelor of Business Administration (Law) degree, won the third place in the Junior category of Half Marathon, with a time result of 1:46:40. She has participated in various running competitions since her secondary school years. She joined Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon for the first time this year due to the promotion in the University. 
During the race, the team spirit of the HKU Family was fully demonstrated among the runners and the support team. Before the race, special training sessions were provided to the runners by professional trainers. On the race day, a start-off ceremony was held for each category and cheering teams were positioned at various locations to cheer the team on. Exclusive baggage delivery service was provided to HKU team members.When they finished the race, they were provided with massage and physiotherapy services at the HKU Booth.
For photos and details of the event, please visit ：http://marathon.hku.hk/
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Janet Chung of Development and Alumni Affairs Office at 2859 2608 or Ms. Cherry Cheung of External Relations Office at 2859 2606.
