[title]HKU held Early Admissions Scheme Information Day[/title]
[date]15 Jan 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held an Information Day on the Early Admissions Scheme (EAS) for Secondary School students today (January 15).
About 800 students and parents attended the admissions talk held at Loke Yew Hall. In an opening remark, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui invited participants to take the opportunities to discover the many aspects of the University that would make studying at HKU a unique experience.
The EAS session this year is an important one, as it will be the last year students are admitted through the scheme. It is also an important year to the University, which has just kicked off the celebrations of its Centenary.
"Next year, a new 4-year curriculum will begin, which will mark the beginning of a new chapter in the history of higher education in Hong Kong.
"This is reflected in the University's history as well, as we reflect on the hundred years of knowledge, heritage and service that our name stands for, and celebrate the beginning of a new era," said Professor Tsui.
Professor Tsui told parents and students that while taking pride in its heritage which is the longest and strongest of all the universities in Hong Kong, HKU has today become a dynamic and forward-looking university, excelling in academic and research, with rankings high in the internationally respected league tables.
The half day event aims to showcase the University's activities and programmes. Besides admissions talk, experience sharing session by former EAS students, and information sessions by various faculties were held to brief students and parents on admission requirements under the scheme.
Since the introduction of the scheme in 2002, a total of 1653 students have been admitted by HKU. Early admissions in September 2011 are now open for application.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
