[title]Statement by HKU on the theft of a USB stick containing student data[/title]
[date]21 Apr 2011[/date]
 
A USB memory stick containing HKU's Faculty of Social Sciences taught postgraduate student data was stolen from a staff of the Faculty in the evening on April 19 (Tuesday).
The memory stick contains information, including personal data, of applicants of Social Sciences taught postgraduate programmes in 2010 and 2011, taught postgraduate students enrolled between 2006 and 2011, and some postgraduate students enrolled in 2004 and 2005, totalled 6,797 students.
The Faculty has contacted all of the affected students today (April 21) through emails, expressing its deepest regret about the incident and apologizing to the students and applicants concerned. The Faculty has set up 2 hotlines and a dedicated email account to address queries from the affected parties during the Easter break and after.
The USB, together with other belongings of the staff member concerned, who has a duty to process students' and applicants' data, were stolen in a mall in Causeway Bay. The theft was reported immediately to the police and is currently under investigation. The University has also reported the case to the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data.
The University has set up a special team to oversee the follow-up actions of the incident. From what is revealed so far, it may have involved negligence of the staff member. A warning letter has been issued and the initiation of further disciplinary procedures is currently under consideration. Despite clear and thorough guidelines on personal data protection issued by the University and the Faculty, the way the staff member stored and transported student data was not in line with the approved practice.
The University expresses its deepest regrets and will take all necessary actions to remind its staff members to adhere to the best practice in respect of protection of personal data.
For enquiries please contact Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk mobile: 9464 3431.
