[title]Japanese Studies at HKU Celebrates 20th Anniversary with Book Launch (Press Release)[/title]
[date]14 Mar 2005[/date]
 
The launching of a book depicting the crossroads of Japanese and Chinese cultures kicked off the celebration of the 20th Anniversary of the Department of Japanese Studies at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today.
The book, Onaji kama no meshi, (Turning Japanese Electric Rice Cookers into Chinese), documents the successful partnership between Japan's Matsushita Electric Industrial and Hong Kong's Shun Hing Group led by Dr William M.W. Mong, who introduced the Japanese National/Panasonic Electric Rice Cooker to Hong Kong in 1959. Co-authored by Dixon H W Wong, Associate Professor, and Yoshiko Nakano, Assistant Professor and Dixon H W Wong, Associate Professor of the Department, the book shows how the two partiesy worked together to localize Japanese products for Chinese people and thus made them competitive throughout Asia.
Since its publication in January 2005 in Japan, the book has been critically acclaimed in the press. Ryuichiro Matsubayashi, Professor of Socio-economics at Tokyo University wrote in Asahi Shimbun, "It is amazing that National/Panasonic produced localized models for more than 40 years, and exported them. Based on numerous interviews, this book illustrates vividly the process of how National/Panasonic rice cookers conquered rice-eating areas around the world". In the Yomiuri Shimbun, Kan Nozaki, Associate Professor of French Literature and Film at Tokyo University noted, "The whole book is about making money, but I was taken by the sincere devotion of the people depicted. The story charms and unfolds like a Hong Kong movie, but at the same time, the authors put the story in a wider context, and considered the role of Hong Kong as an international showroom, and its relationship with mainland China" (March 6, 2005).
At the book launch today Dr William Mong said he was happy to see its publication and will continue to support Japanese studies. Speaking at the kick-off ceremony today the Consul General of Japan, Mr Takanori Kitamura, said that Dr Mong's endeavour is a story of tremendous business success, however its process and outcome prove to be unique cultural exchange. He also noted that the Department of Japanese Studies at HKU played a key role in forging the social ties between Hong Kong and Japan.
The book launch today was the first in a series of events this year to mark the 20th Anniversary of the Department. Other upcoming events include a 5-day Japan Anthropology Workshop starting on March 17 with presentations from more than 100 scholars from 18 countries, and a planned Kabuki Workshop organised by the Japanese Club.
There will also be a Business Forum on Hong Kong-Japan business relationship and a Language Forum on improving Cantonese speakers' foreign language acquisition led by leading linguist Dr Esther Y W Lai of the Department. The celebration year will be rounded off with a Cultural Forum in November aimed at introducing contemporary Japanese culture, and a 20th Anniversary Alumni Dinner at HKU's Loke Yew Hall.
"The Department of Japanese Studies has come a long way from just offering language courses 20 years ago to a well-developed programme of study about Japanese language and culture with exchange and internship programmes supported by leading Japanese and Japan-linked companies and organisations in Hong Kong," said Dr Peter Cave, Head of the Department of Japanese Studies.
"We now have over 1,000 graduates from the Department of Japanese Studies and 25 post-graduate research students who successfully completed their theses and degrees. Since 2002 the Hong Kong University Japanese Studies Alumni has been established to provide a focus where graduates can network and exchange experiences. Every year we see more than 1,200 students from different faculties of the University apply to enroll in one of the Japanese language courses offered by the Department. About 200 students major in Japanese Studies," Dr Cave added.
The Department offers a series of courses on Japanese business, education, popular culture, media, women, literature, Sino-Japanese relations, anthropology of Japan, etc to ensure that students get a thorough understanding of Japanese society and culture. Increasing number of Japanese corporations in Hong Kong seek for local young talents who will become their top managers in the future.local management trainees. The Department recognises the need and receives regular advicse from its nine Advisory Board members who are prominent members of the Japanese community in Hong Kong. Students of the Department have access to a well-equipped Audio-Visual Library which is a fully digitized language laboratory.

