[title]University Open Days at HKU - October 16 to 17, 2004 (Press Invitation)[/title]
[date]14 Oct 2004[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) will hold its Open Days jointly with the Triennial Open Days organized by its Students' Union (HKUSU) on October 16 and 17 from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
The Open Days aim to introduce the University's activities, programmes and facilities to the public, particularly secondary school students and teachers, careers master and parents.Teaching departments and halls of residence will be open to provide an opportunity for the general public to learn more about HKU.
A marquee will be set up outside the Main Building to provide visitors with general information of HKU's faculties and supporting centre/units.Exhibition booths of faculties and departments will be set up and staff from faculties and departments will be happy to answer questions on admission requirements, study programmes offered in 2005-2006, and the career prospects of graduates of different disciplines.
Recruitment talks for sixth formers will be held at 11:30 a.m. in Kwan Fong Lecture Theatre (2/F Knowles Building) and 2:30 p.m. in Rayson Huang Theatre on Saturday (October 16) by Professor John Spinks, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Chairman of the University Admissions Committee.Sharing sessions with one of a group of our current students will follow the recruitment talks.
Professor Cheng Kai-ming, Senior Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor, will deliver a talk entitled Learning Lives at HKU 11:30 a.m. on Saturday (October 16) at Rayson Huang Theatre. This talk is especially designed for parents of current and future HKU students to enhance their understanding in the learning lives at HKU and the contemporary expectations of university graduates.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU's Vice-Chancellor, will also talk about Genes and U at 3:45pm on Saturday (October 16) at Rayson Huang Theatre. 
The activities organized by HKUSU will bear the theme Be a U Student, Be a HKU Student.There will be a carnival at Sun Yat-sen Place on both Saturday (October 16) and Sunday (October 17) with performances by various student societies and clubs. 
Further details of the programmes at the Open Days can be viewed at http://www.hku.hk/openday. 
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Polo Leung of HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
Media Invitation
Media representatives are invited to cover an opening ceremony on Saturday (October 16) at 10:00 a.m. at Sun Yat-sen Place, outside Main Library.The ceremony will be followed immediately by an ice-cream scooping session on Saturday (October 16) at 10:15 a.m. with a theme of We Serve the Best. Led by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU's Vice-Chancellor, members of the senior management team, faculty deans and HKUSU President will serve ice cream generously sponsored by Mövenpick of Switzerland to visitors.
 
