[title]HKU sets up an Investigation Panel for the Dental Unit Incident[/title]
[date]07 Nov 2012[/date]
 
The University Health Service Committee (UHSC) of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) convened a special meeting today (November 7).  The meeting, chaired by Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost Professor Roland Chin, endorsed the establishment of a Dental Clinic Incident Investigation Panel (the “Panel”).
The Panel will investigate the incident involving dental instruments in the Dental Unit of UHS not having gone through the full process of sterilization, affecting people treated by the Dental Unit between October 30 afternoon and morning of November 2, 2012. 
It will also recommend arrangements needed for affected people and measures to prevent recurrence of similar incidents in the future, and also make proposal on any other related issues as necessary.
Members of the Panel include HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine Department of Microbiology Henry Fok Professor in Infectious Diseases Professor YUEN Kwok Yung, Professor Edward LO Chin Man of the Faculty of Dentistry and a medical professional from the community.  A representative from the Government’s Department of Health will be involved as an external expert observer of the Panel.
UHSC believed that having a Panel composed entirely of medical professionals would be fitting for the purpose of carrying out an independent, objective and impartial investigation, and producing professional recommendations.
The investigation report will be submitted to UHSC upon completion. The UHSC will review the medical procedures based on the Panel’s report and will make recommendations to the University to ensure the quality and standard of the health services at the University.
Among the 254 affected people, 237 blood tests results show that no one screened had been identified as HIV or Hepatitis C carrier. A proportion had been found to possess immunity to Hepatitis B virus already, as a result of either previous vaccination or natural infection. Eleven were found to be Hepatitis B carriers, in line with the prevalence rate of Hepatitis B in our local population.
For Media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media)
Tel: (852) 2859 2606, or (852) 9464 3431, Email: pychoy@hku.hk
