[title]HKU Dean of Science Professor Sun Kwok Received Outstanding Achievement Award from the University of Minnesota[/title]
[date]23 Oct 2013[/date]
 
 
Dean of HKU Science Professor Sun Kwok being awarded by the University of Minnesota for his exceptional research contributions and service to the development of astronomical research in Asia.
Today (October 23) in Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.A., Professor Sun Kwok, Dean of Science of the University of Hong Kong will be receiving the Outstanding Achievement Award from his alma mater, the University of Minnesota.  This award recognizes graduates who have attained unusual distinction in their chosen fields or professions, or in public service, and who have demonstrated outstanding achievement and leadership on a community, state, national, or international level.　In making this award, the University of Minnesota cites Professor Kwok’s research contributions to astrochemistry and stellar evolution, specifically for his theory on the death process of stars and his study of stellar synthesis of complex organic compounds.  He is also recognized for his contributions to science education, popularization of science, and his service to the development of astronomical research in Asia. 
Professor Kwok felt deeply honored, yet humbled and inspired for his receiving of the Award. “The University of Minnesota was a pioneer in the development of infrared astronomy in the 1960s and I owe my research success to the excellent education that I had received there.” said Professor Kwok.
The award will be presented to Professor Kwok by Professor Eric W Kaler, President of the University of Minnesota.  In conjunction with the acceptance of the award, Professor Kwok will be giving a lecture on “Organic Nanoparticles in Space”.  After the ceremony, Professor Kwok’s name will be engraved on the Alumni Wall of Honor.
Professor Kwok is widely acknowedged as the world-leading expert in the study of planetary nebulae, a class of spectacular-looking objects formed near the end of a star's life. His theory on the origin of planetary nebulae has revolutionized our understanding of the death of Sun-like stars. More recently, he has found that planetary nebulae can rapidly synthesize large amount of complex organic compounds, as well as widely spreading them throughout the Milky Way Galaxy; a finding that may have significant implications on the origin of life on Earth.
Professor Kwok has served in many international bodies, including as President of the International Astronomical Union Commission 34 Interstellar Matter (2012-) and Vice President, International Astronomical Union Commission 51 Bioastronomy (2012-). Please visit http://www.scifac.hku.hk/kwok/ for more information of Professor Kwok.
For press enquiry, please contact Ms Cindy Chan, Senior Communication Manager of Faculty of Science, at 2241-5286/ 6703-0212 or by email at cindycst@hku.hk


