[title]HKU Phase 1 Clinical Trials Centre moves forward to its 1st Anniversary Focus on phase 1 and early phase clinical trials to bring novel treatments[/title]
[date]03 Jun 2015[/date]
 

(From left to right) Dr Tommy Cheung Tsang, Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Deputy Medical Director, HKU Phase 1 Clinical Trials Centre, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU; Professor Karen Lam Siu-ling,Rosie T T Young Professor in Endocrinology and Metabolism, Chair Professor and Head, Department of Medicine ,Chairman of HKU Clinical Trials Centre of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU; Professor Yuen Man-fung, Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professor in Medicine, Chair Professor of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.

In order to support clinical trials on novel drugs for various kinds of diseases, The University of Hong Kong Phase 1 Clinical Trials Centre (Phase 1 Centre) has been established last year.  The Phase 1 Centre is a dedicated, state-of-the-art clinical research facility of HKU Clinical Trials Centre (HKU-CTC), specifically designed for conducting phase 1 and early phase clinical trials.  With this advanced establishment, more high impact clinical trials will be conducted in the future and more novel treatments will emerge to combat different diseases – for the well-being of Hong Kong citizens and the mankind.
Importance of HKU Phase 1 Centre
“The Phase 1 Centre is a world-class clinical research facility with advanced equipment and a leading clinical, scientific and management team.  It allows our investigators to conduct phase 1 and early phase clinical trials that were not possible in the past, and is going to be a powerhouse boosting novel drug research with results finally benefiting our patients and the public,” says Professor Karen Lam Siu-ling, Chairman of HKU-CTC and Rosie T T Young Professor in Endocrinology and Metabolism, Chair Professor and Head of Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU. 
“The Phase 1 Centre is an ideal facility for clinical investigators to conduct clinical trials, in particular drug trials that require close monitoring.  The team in the Phase 1 Centre is highly professional, not only in conducting research activities but more importantly in caring of our research participants,” says Professor Yuen Man-fung, Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professor in Medicine, Chair Professor of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.
Unique Value of Phase 1 Centre
Phase 1 and early phase clinical trials constitute the early stage of investigation of novel drugs in research participants – whether patients or healthy volunteers – and represent a critical step towards practical advancement in medicine. Such trials usually involve intensive and timely clinical assessments, diagnoses, blood sampling and testing, and commonly require continuous monitoring of trial participants – over 24 hours or even longer. Stringent quality control processes must also be implemented to ensure proper performance of each research procedure in compliance with research protocols, and also with local and international regulatory requirements. Without a dedicated, fully equipped and staffed facility, such trials could not be optimally carried out.
Achievements of Phase 1 Centre
Since the commencement of operation of the Phase 1 Centre in mid-2014, it has already supported three novel drug trials, in cancer and hepatitis.  Currently four trials are ongoing there, and 12 other trials are under planning.  The main research areas include cancers, hepatitis, immunology, diabetes and infectious diseases. So far over 70 participants have enrolled in the completed and ongoing trials.  With the rapid advancement in medical research locally and worldwide, the number of phase 1 and early phase clinical trials conducted in the Phase 1 Centre is expected to keep growing in the years to come, and more new treatments will emerge.
Background of HKU-CTC
HKU-CTC is an academic clinical research organisation established under Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU in 1998, and is the central platform for management and coordination of clinical trials under HKU and its affiliated teaching hospital – Queen Mary Hospital (QMH).
HKU-CTC provides one-stop solutions for clinical research programmes – whether locally in Hong Kong or of a multinational scale. In collaboration with HKU’s expert investigators, local and overseas research institutions and the medical research industry, its professional team supports planning and management of various clinical trials – from designing research protocols, identifying suitable research participants, coordinating research procedures, collecting and analyzing research data, to final reporting and publication of research results. Over the past 17 years, HKU-CTC has already facilitated over 1,000 clinical trials, covering oncology, cardiovascular diseases, gastroenterology &amp; hepatology, endocrinology, diabetes &amp; metabolism, haematology and other clinical specialties.
HKU-CTC has a robust governance and management system. Policies and strategies are directed by its Committee of Management (COM) with wide representation by the senior management of the Medical Faculty and QMH. The COM now consists of 12 members including a Chairman, Dean and Associate Dean (Research) of the Medical Faculty, Hospital Chief Executive of QMH, Directors of HKU-CTC and other key stakeholders in clinical trials.  
The entire HKU-CTC now has a staff of 40 full-time clinical research management professionals under its six functional teams, including its Phase 1 Centre Operations Team, Pharmacokinetics Laboratory Operations Team, Business &amp; Project Acceleration Team, Project Management &amp; Contract Services Team, Quality Assurance Team and Corporate Services &amp; Administration Team.
Enroll as phase 1 clinical trial participants 
If you wish to participate in phase 1 clinical trials and support research and development of novel drugs, please visit HKU-CTC’s website (http://www.hkuctc.com/phase1_enroll_zh.php) for more details and registration.
For press photos and powerpoint presentation, please visit the below link：
http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases

“The Phase 1 Centre is a world-class clinical research facility with advanced equipment and a leading clinical, scientific and management team.  It allows our investigators to conduct phase 1 and early phase clinical trials that were not possible in the past, and is going to be a powerhouse boosting novel drug research with results finally benefiting our patients and the public,” says Professor Karen Lam Siu-ling, Chairman of HKU-CTC and Rosie T T Young Professor in Endocrinology and Metabolism, Chair Professor and Head of Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU. 

“The Phase 1 Centre is an ideal facility for clinical investigators to conduct clinical trials, in particular drug trials that require close monitoring.  The team in the Phase 1 Centre is highly professional, not only in conducting research activities but more importantly in caring of our research participants,” says Professor Yuen Man-fung, Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professor in Medicine, Chair Professor of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.



Dr Tommy Cheung Tsang, Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Deputy Medical Director, HKU Phase 1 Clinical Trials Centre, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU said that it is important for healthy subjects to participate in the phase 1 trials under a safe circumstance, in order to have a better understanding on the reaction of drugs in human.


