[title]“1887, 1911, 2011…Decoding HKU” A Conversation with Professor Wang Gungwu[/title]
[date]11 Jan 2011[/date]
 
Professor Wang Gungwu shared his insights in the “1887, 1911, 2011…Decoding HKU A Conversation with Professor Wang Gungwu” Professor Wang Gungwu, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong and world-renowned historian, engaged in a dialogue entitled "1887, 1911, 2011...Decoding HKU" with over a hundred of staff, students, alumni and friends today (January 11) in the University Museum and Art Gallery. The Conversation is one of the University's Centenary Celebrations activities.
Professor Chow Shew-Ping, HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor (University Relations) and Professor Ying Chan, Director of HKU Journalism and Media Studies Centre also joined the Conversation as panelists.
In the Conversation, Professor Wang reflected on how higher education began in Hong Kong: The establishment of the Hong Kong College of Medicine in 1887. Professor Wang remarked that history of many universities in the world told us many of them began as medical schools or law schools, and evolved into universities. "Remember when I first came to the University in 1986, the year after I came was the Centenary of the medical school. I was invited to go to the medical school to celebrate their occasion. I said among the medical alumni, I felt very much this was the centenary of the University of Hong Kong."
Professor Wang also shared his insights on how the University's history as shaping its present. The University must be aware of its circumstances and response to the conditions of the times. By bringing in the concept of western medicine, which represents the combination of science, technology and humanities, the establishment of the Hong Kong College of Medicine in 1887 was a response to the conditions of the times. "The conditions of the times should not be limited to political or economic, but include all areas of knowledge. This is where the university meets its greatest challenge."
In facing this fast-changing world, Professor Wang considered it is important, not just for society of Hong Kong, but also the University which serves as a hub for knowledge share and exchange, to take a broader view when considering its development in long term. While many people consider Hong Kong as an open society with considerable freedom, a wider view should be adopted so as to nurture and keep the freedom in the society healthy and alive.
Professor Wang was the 11th Vice-Chancellor of HKU from 1986 to 1995. He is currently the Chairman of the East Asian Institute and the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy of the National University of Singapore.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
