[title]HKU Baby Scientist Program Parent Talk assists newborns’ parents for sounder sleep[/title]
[date]02 Aug 2015[/date]
 
A parent talk on 0-1 Year Old Infant Sleep was held by the Department of Psychology, Faculty of Social Sciences, the University of Hong Kong (HKU). It was given by Dr. Sun Wanqi, a pediatrician from Mainland China who previously worked with the Shanghai Children’s Medical Center. Dr. Sun is now a PhD student at the Department of Psychology under the supervision of Dr. Tseng Chia-Huei, founder and director of the “HKU Baby Scientist Program”.
More than 40 parents and infant caregivers attended this parent talk held on August 1, 2015. Participants involved in active discussions about infant sleep with their first-hand experiences and concerns. In addition, many of them raised questions to seek professional advice. The sharing on infant sleep pattern and development, as well as insights from frontline childcare experts not only aided greenhand parents with better childcare, but also led to innovative treatments clinically.
The talk shed lights on various topics that parents are interested about. In the talk, Dr. Sun covered topics including diverse infant sleep patterns across countries and cultures, development of circadian rhythm during early infancy as well as research design, evaluation methods and analysis of the results from recent infant sleep studies. She also used vivid real life examples to help parents identify potential sleep difficulties of their newborns and shared practical tips to help parents to cope with such difficulties and to assist infants on achieving healthier sleep patterns that suit individual needs. Tips ranging from improving bedtime routine and making use of comfort items for easier sleep, to common issues about infant sleep safety, were introduced to parents.
Enquiries: Dr. Wanqi Sun (Tel 5228-6849 or email hku.pal@gmail.com).

Dr. Chia-huei Tseng shares on-going research projects of the HKU Baby Scientist Program.

Dr. Sun Wanqi introduces infant sleep patterns and clinical practices with parents and caregivers.



Parents interact enthusiastically at the Q &amp; A session to seek advice for the best practices from experts and other parents.


