[title]HKU Civil Engineering Students to Receive Scholarships[/title]
[date]05 Feb 2007[/date]
 
Twenty-seven students from the Department of Civil Engineering of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), including eight students admitted through the Early Admissions Scheme, received scholarships at a ceremony today (February 5) in the Loke Yew Hall, HKU.
Professor the Honourable Sarah Liao Sau-Tung, Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works, was the Guest of Honour; and she also presented souvenirs to all sponsors to thank them for their generosity in offering contributions to the cause of academic excellence.
The sponsors include a range of external supporters of the University including HKU alumni, trusts, professional bodies and a number of renowned companies. One notable scholarship awarded to a student covers the total value of the tuition fees throughout the 3-year undergraduate curriculum, amounting to approximately HK$126,000.
Professor Y. K. Cheung, Special Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor addressed the assembly. He said: "This year, we have altogether 27 scholarships and awards - 24 for undergraduates and three for taught postgraduates. The Civil Engineering Scholarship for Early Admission Scheme (EAS) students was newly established this year and we are very pleased to have eight recipients."
Professor Cheung said: "For the academic year of 2006-07, our Civil Engineering and Law Double Degree Programme ranked 4th amongst all UGC programmes in Hong Kong and through the Early Admission Scheme, we have admitted eight students who have obtained very good results in the HKCEE Examinations.
"In July 2006, Thames Water, the world's third largest water and waste water company, sent a recruitment team of 7 people from UK to our Department to recruit 9 of our high caliber graduates to join their Graduate Development Programme. Our graduates were their only target in Asia for recruiting overseas graduates and this was based on their satisfactory experience with the quality of our graduates recruited in the previous years."
Six principals or their representatives from secondary schools and other institutions, in which the awardees graduated, attended the Ceremony. They are from The Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education (Tsing Yi), Holy Trinity College, Queen' College, S.T.F.A. Leung Kau Kui College, St. Louis School and Ying Wa Girls'School.

