[title]2,200 Strong HKU Marathon Team – We won again![/title]
[date]09 Feb 2009[/date]
 


A total of 2,200 students, staff, alumni and their families joined the Marathon Team of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to participate in the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon yesterday (February 8).  The HKU team has for the fourth consecutive year won the Most Supportive Group Award, with the largest participating team! 
HKU alumnae Ms Rachel Sproston and Ms Pauline Tse were the 1st runner-up in the Master 1 category of the Half Marathon (Women) and the 1st runner-up in the Master 2 category of the Full Marathon (Women) respectively.  Ms Sproston holds a HKU Postgraduate Diploma in Education, and Ms Tse holds a Master of Science degree in Electronic Commerce and Internet Computing.   
Of the 2,200 HKU runners, at the age of 71, Mr Kwong Hung-piu (PCEd 1993; MEd 1997; MEd 2000) was the most senior runner.  Ms Pang Ching-wai and Ms Wong Wai-ying Katherine, both 11 years old, were the youngest runners for the 10km category. 
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Shew-ping Chow represented HKU in the Leaders Cup, and Professor Chung-mau Lo, Chin Lan-Hong Professor in Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, joined the Full Marathon for the first time this year.  Instead of participating in the 10km category as he did before, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui chose to cheer on and share the fun and joy with HKU runners. 
To relieve the pain and fatigue after running, a team of 15 Registered Chinese Medicine Practitioners from the HKU Bachelor of Chinese Medicine (Full-time) Alumni Association provided a special service of professional after-exercise therapy for our runners at a booth in Victoria Park. 
For photos of the HKU Marathon Team, please go to http://www.marathon.hku.hk/. 
For media enquiries, please contact: 
Mr Walter Ngai, Development and Alumni Affairs Office, on 2859 2791 
Ms Joanne Yung, External Relations Office, on 2859 2600 

 


For the fourth consecutive year, the HKU team won the Most Supportive Group Award, the largest participating team!
 
Pauline Tse, the 1st runner-up in the Full Marathon – Master 2 (Women).

Professional after-exercise therapy to relieve the pain and fatigue from running.
 
Registered Chinese Medicine Practitioners from the HKU Bachelor of Chinese Medicine (Full-time) Alumni Association provided a special service of professional post-exercise therapy.

Professor Chung-mau Lo, Chin Lan-Hong Professor in Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, joined the Full Marathon for the first time this year.
 
Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Shew-Ping Chow represented HKU in the Leaders Cup.

Rachel Sproston, the 1st runner-up in the Half Marathon Challenge – Master 1 (Women).
 
Photo-taking service at the HKU booth for alumni and their family.

Vice-Chancellor Lap-Chee Tsui and 71-year-old Hung Piu Kwong, the most senior runner of HKU Marathon Team 2009.
 
 
 
 
