[title]Groundbreaking Ceremony of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Building for Interdisciplinary Research[/title]
[date]14 Oct 2009[/date]
 

The groundbreaking ceremony of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Building for Interdisciplinary Research was held today (14 October).  The ceremony signifies a new era of human research at the University of Hong Kong (HKU).  
HKU has achieved worldwide recognition for its research achievements. The Phase 1 of the Human Research Institute (HRI) will accommodate specialized research laboratories and state-of-the-art inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary centres, including the Magnetic Resonance Imaging Engineering Centre, the Behavioral Sciences and Holistic Health Centre, the Institute of Human Performance Research Centre, the Clinical Trials Centre, the Genome Research Centre, the Medical Physics Research Centre, and the Chemical Biology Centre.
In recognition of the generous donation of HK$133 million by The Hong Kong Jockey Club through its Charities Trust, the HRI (Phase 1) Building will be named "The Hong Kong Jockey Club Building for Interdisciplinary Research". The construction of the Building will be completed in mid 2011.
At the ceremony, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU said, "The construction of the future home of the Human Research Institute is part of a comprehensive development plan of the University's strategic research initiatives." "This Building will provide the space, the technologies and the facilities to cultivate a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary environment that will enhance collaboration amongst researchers within HKU."
Mr John C C Chan, Chairman of The Hong Kong Jockey Club said, "The Club is pleased to support this important project by funding the development of a base for the Human Research Institute, where multi-disciplinary units will be housed under one roof.  We believe the project will help cultivate a cross-disciplinary research culture and environment conducive to close collaboration, which is essential for furthering human research in HKU and Hong Kong in general."
The Building will adopt environmentally-friendly design, including vertical greening at the outer wall of the building, and the installation of solar panels.
For media enquiries, please contact Mr. Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations), Communications and Public Affairs Office), Tel: 2857 8555/91880219, email: henryho.kc@hku.hk or Miss Julie Chu, Assistant Executive (Community Relations), Communications and Public Affairs Office, Tel: 2859 2437, email: juliechu@hku.hk
Key information of the Building

Location:  5-7, Sassoon Road, Pokfulam
Commencement of Construction: September 2009
Anticipated Completion:  Mid 2011
Site Area:  3,815 m2
Construction Floor Area:   15,840 m2
Total Net Operational Floor Area:  8,082 m2
Height:   12 storeys
Estimated Cost:    HK$306 million
Officiating guests of the ceremony are: (from right) Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU; Mr Jack So, Chairman of Campus Development and Planning Committee, HKU; Mr John Chan, Chairman of Hong Kong Jockey Club; and Professor Paul Tam, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU.
Officiating guests with the model of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Building for Interdisciplinary Research


