[title]First batch of PhD students to graduate from
programmes jointly offered byHKU and UK prestigious universities
[/title]
[date]02 Nov 2014[/date]
 
The first three students who enrolled in joint PhD programmes will graduate by the end of 2014, and be conferred a PhD degree jointly by the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and its prestigious partner universities in the U.K. Two of the students, studying pathology and civil engineering respectively, will graduate from the PhD programme jointly offered by HKU and Imperial College London (ICL). The other student from the School of English will be awarded a PhD degree jointly by HKU and King’s College London (KCL).
Zhao Fung undertook a PhD in Pathology under the joint supervision of Professor Annie N.Y. Cheung (HKU) and Professor Eric W.F. Lam (ICL). ‘I felt very lucky to be a member of the first cohort of students admitted to the Joint PhD Programme offered by HKU and ICL. I could not have been able to gain this eye-opening opportunity to enrich my knowledge and horizon without the support of the two universities,’ said Zhao.  Zhao’s thesis is about the role of FOXM1 in Ovarian Vancer Tumorigenesis and Chemoresistance. According to Zhao, ‘Overexpression of FOXM1 is associated with poor patient outcome in ovarian cancer and contributes to paclitaxel resistance. KIF2C is identified as a novel FOXM1 transcriptional target that might be implicated in the acquisition of chemoresistance. These findings suggest FOXM1 could serve as a potential prognostic marker and therapeutic target in ovarian cancer’.

Zhao Fung (first on the left) celebrates Christmas
with his supervisor Professor Eric Lam (fourth from the left) and lab mates at ICL.

Su Meini also enrolled in the HKU-ICL joint PhD programme, doing research in Civil Engineering. ‘My supervisors, Professor Ben Young from HKU and Professor Leroy Gardner from ICL, provided continuous support for me on both my academic research and non-academic life. They not only helped me to develop research techniques, but also to adapt to the new environment and to build up my new network,’ said Su. ‘My research involved experimental investigations, simulations, theoretical analysis as well as development of new design method for aluminium alloy structural members. The findings of my research would save more than 40% material costs of a structure (e.g. for premises) under the same loading conditions. This new method is now being considered to be codified in different international design specifications.’

Su Meini (right) and her research group in the UK

Sarah Downes from the School of English is the first graduate of the Joint PhD programme offered by HKU and KCL.  Under the joint supervision of Dr Otto Heim at HKU and Dr Anna Snaith at KCL, Sarah’s research project considered the relationship between literary modernism and visual culture in the work of Caribbean modernist Jean Rhys.  ‘The joint PhD was an immensely rewarding experience, I’d recommend to any prospective student. My research was energised and invigorated by the contrasting academic practices of the two institutions, and personally I benefitted immensely from researching in a new environment when I moved to Hong Kong. My three years as a Joint PhD scholar were incredible - I only wish it could have lasted longer!’ said Sarah.

Sarah Downes recommends the Joint PhD Programme to prospective students.

HKU has also introduced joint educational placement for PhD with the University of Toronto since 2012. The first two students started their PhD studies in Biochemistry in June and September 2014 respectively.
About Joint PhD Programmes
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has collaborated with Imperial College London (ICL) and King’s College London (KCL) to offer Joint PhD programmes since 2010. Similar collaboration in the form of joint educational placement for PhD has been introduced with the University of Toronto (UofT) since 2012, which represents a breakthrough of joint PhDs into the North American system. These programmes aim to provide PhD students with the opportunities to benefit from shared research excellence in a wide range of disciplines between HKU and its prestigious partners. Students are supervised by academic staff at both HKU and one of its partner universities, and spent their time in both universities.
Joint PhD students of programmes with Imperial College London and King’s College London will be conferred a PhD degree jointly awarded by both HKU and the partner university. Students who enroll in the HKU-UofT programme, which is a joint educational placement for PhD, will be conferred a single doctoral degree from the lead institution.
Joint PhDs are elite programmes offered by HKU and a small number of highly selected partners. The programmes, which admit only a very small number of high calibre students, are competitive and sought after by candidates who wish to acquire enriching international experience in learning and research, an invaluable asset in their career development.
Joint PhD programmes are available across different Faculties. Details can be found on the Graduate School web site: http://www.gradsch.hku.hk/gradsch/programmes/joint-phd-degree
Media enquiry:
Communication and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (Tel：2857 8555 / 9022 7446 email：rhea.leung@hku.hk)
