[title]HKU Salutes Distinguished Academics for Teaching and Research Excellence[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2011[/date]
 


HKU Salutes Distinguished Academics for Teaching and Research Excellence

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held its Award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching and Research 2010 today (February 17) to honour its faculty members for their dedication and outstanding achievements in teaching and research.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui presided at the ceremony and HKU Council Chairman Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung was the Guest of Honour.
Professor Tsui paid tribute on behalf of the University to the awardees who have excelled themselves as academics, as researchers and teachers, and have contributed to the University's success.
"Over the last 100 years, the University has played a leadership role in creating new knowledge through research and other scholarly activities, and disseminating knowledge through teaching and educating students.
"The impact of their work is certainly more than just significant in the academic world, but way beyond in the community at large, as their research and innovations bring about important scientific discoveries, technological advancements and new intellectual horizons. More important is perhaps their contributions in teaching and training of our next generation of leaders who hold promise in furthering our knowledge and enriching our society and humankind," said Professor Tsui.
It is the tenth year HKU has held the award ceremony. Six categories of awards are conferred which include the University Distinguished Teaching Award, Outstanding Teaching Award, Outstanding Research Student Supervisor Award, Outstanding Researcher Award, Outstanding Young Researcher Award, and Research Output Prize. A team award has been introduced this year under the Outstanding Teaching Award to honour distinguished team work by faculty members.
HKU Council Chairman Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung congratulated the awardees and thanked them for their dedication to teaching and to the advancement of knowledge and society.
"The combined contributions of our high quality teachers and researchers enable HKU to be a leading institute of higher education." Dr Leong said the ceremony this year carried special meaning coinciding with the University's Centenary year.
"HKU has experienced many changes and lived through turbulent times-including a world war, flu outbreaks and financial crises-and also momentous occasions such as the reunification. When facing educational and societal challenges, and to ensure our aspirations are realised, we rely on the dedication and innovation of the members of the University, such as those celebrated today," said Dr Leong.
For the list of award recipients, please visit:
http://www4.hku.hk/award/ceremony/award-recipients/106
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.

