[title]HKU Faculty of Education holds
Opening Ceremony of the Regional Workshop of
IIEP Distance Training Programme on Education Sector Planning in Asia
Indonesia – Thailand – Viet Nam[/title]
[date]14 Jan 2013[/date]
 
In collaborating with the International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) of UNESCO and being supported by J.P.Morgan, the Faculty of Education of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) held today (January 14) the Opening Ceremony of the Regional Workshop of IIEP Distance Training Programme on Education Sector Planning in Asia.
Ms Gabriele Gottelmann of IIEP, Professor Stephen Andrews, Dean of Education of HKU, Professor Mark Bray, UNESCO Chair in Comparative Education and Ms Jean K. Sung, Executive Director &amp; Manager, Global Philanthropy Asia-Pacific of J.P.Morgan officiated the Opening Ceremony with the presence of 73 education professionals from Indonesia, Thailand and Viet Nam.  Ms Gottelmann stated that the implementation of the Regional Workshop is a national and international commitment to reach a more diversified people with different backgrounds.  Being echoed by Professor Bray, the initiative is to globalize the university by bringing the professionals from the three countries to Hong Kong to enjoy learning at HKU.
To be a collaboration amongst a public sector (IIEP-UNESCO), a non-profit-making educational institution (Faculty of Education, HKU) and a private sector (J.P.Morgan) for education professionals with different nationalities, experience and cultures, Ms Sung raised a critical question, “Why education?  Education is a backbone of the future”.  Professor Andrews may conclude well about the ultimate aim of the programme, “Our vision is to lead the study and practice of education, to influence public policy and improve community life through education, and to nurture graduates who are passionately committed to their professions.  Central to the realisation of that vision is the notion of engagement with the community – here in Hong Kong, in Mainland China, regionally, and globally”.
Subsequent to the Opening Ceremony, 73 education professionals will receive and benefit from a one-week workshop at HKU from January 14 to 18, 2013.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Queenie Wong, Development and Communications Manager, Faculty of Education, HKU (Tel: 2219 4270 / mobile: 9220 5840 / fax: 2540 6360 / email: qlpwong@hku.hk).  Please visit http://web.edu.hku.hk/media.php to view the e-version of the press release. The photo can be downloaded at http://web.edu.hku.hk/press/20130114/.

Professor Stephen Andrews, Dean of Education of HKU (first row left 3); Professor Mark Bray, UNESCO Chair in Comparative Education (first row left 6); Ms Jean K. Sung, Executive Director &amp; Manager, Global Philanthropy Asia-Pacific of J.P.Morgan (first row right 6); Ms Gabriele Gottelmann of IIEP (first row right 5); our honorable guests and 73 education professionals from Indonesia, Thailand and Viet Nam.


