[title]Korean the Latest Addition to HKU's Language Programmes[/title]
[date]04 Oct 2007[/date]
 

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) introduces a Korean Programme starting from September this year, and plans to offer it as a minor subject in the next academic year. With the addition of Korean, HKU's School of Modern Languages and Cultures (the School) now offers a total of 10 languages for study (Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish and Thai).
Dr Marie-Paule Ha, Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts, HKU, said at the launching reception for the new programme today (October 4) that by offering more programme choices, the University aimed at ensuring that students will have access to diversified learning in preparation for the implementation of the new four-year undergraduate curriculum.
"By studying a foreign language and culture, students can broaden their horizons, enhance their presentation and communication skills, and add to their competitiveness in an increasingly globalised environment," said Dr Ha.
Dr Dixon Wong, Acting Head of the School, said the School was discussing with the Korean Consulate and Korean business community in Hong Kong on further developing exchange opportunities for its Korean programme students in future, like studying at Korean universities and undergoing internships at Korean companies in Hong Kong or Korea. 
The Certificate in Korean programme is composed of three levels - beginner, intermediate and advanced - of 100 hours each, and is open to all HKU students. In this new semester, about 45 students were already enrolled at beginner-level classes. The School plans to offer Korean as a minor for HKU students in 2008-09; and will further open it to members of the public in the near future.
Congratulating HKU for the vision of introducing Korean programme, Mr Tong-youn Seok, Consul-General of the Republic of Korea in Hong Kong, an honourable guest at the launch reception, said further exchanges between Hong Kong and Korean students and academics would certainly help strengthen the cultural and economic ties between both sides.
Echoing Mr Seok, Dr Wong said the offer of the Korean programme reflected the importance and tremendous growth in popularity of the Korean language and culture in Asia over recent years. Moreover, strong and growing economic ties between Korea, Hong Kong and the Mainland China had also led to rising demand for learning Korean. China is now Korea's leading export market and Hong Kong its 4th.  There are over 650 Korean companies operating in Hong Kong and over 30,000 operating in the Mainland.
Korean is now spoken by over 70 million people worldwide. According to the United Nations, Korean is the 9th most widely spoken language in the world.
For media enquiries, please contact :-
- Ms Lucilla Cheng, School of Modern Languages and Cultures (Tel: 2859 2900 / E-mail: luci@hkucc.hku.hk   ); or
- Ms Denise Wong, Manager (Media), External Relations Office ( Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk ).
The School of Modern Languages and Cultures, HKU
The School currently offers degree options in three areas of studies: American Studies, European Studies and Japanese Studies. A fourth, Modern China Studies, will be added the 2008-2009 academic year.
The School also offers programmes in 10 languages (Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Thai). HKU remains the only university in the territory where students can major in French, German and Spanish, and minor in Arabic, Italian, Portuguese, Swedish and Thai. A minor in Korean is being planned for 2008-2009.
With a 50-strong teaching staff from around the globe, the School is a significant contributor to HKU's international outlook, offering diversity to the learning experience of its students. The School's programmes also reinforce its commitment to the development of East/West studies and its position as a centre for teaching, researching and promoting exchanges among various cultures.
Photo Caption:
Guest Speakers among HKU's Korean exchange students at the Launch Reception of Korean Programme:- (From left)
Mr Tong-youn SEOK, Consul-General of the Republic of Korea in Hong Kong, Dr Dixon WONG, Acting Head, School of Modern Languages and Cultures, HKU and Dr Marie-Paule HA, Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts, HKU
Picture 1
Picture 2


