[title]HKU Outstanding Young Researcher
Discovers the Anticarcinogenic Function of Selected Natural Condiments [/title]
[date]25 Mar 2013[/date]
 





A recent study of the University of Hong Kong discovered that selective use of natural condiments as meat seasoning can significantly reduce the formation of carcinogenic substances formed in high-temperature heating process. Together with appropriate cooking method, some novel food components that help prevent cancer can also be formed. Dr Ming-fu Wang, Associate Professor of the School of Biological Sciences who led the research team, is presented with the University Outstanding Young Researcher Award 2012 for his exceptional achievements in the research area.
In the past, numerous studies have pointed out that meat products, particularly BBQ foods may contain carcinogens, due to the formation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and heterocyclic amines under high- temperature food processing. Heterocyclic amines (HAs) is a class of polycyclic aromatic compounds commonly formed in animal protein-riched foods (such as meat) through Maillard reaction. They are considered as highly mutagenic and carcinogenic.
The western eating style has become popular for Asian. Nowadays we are consuming more meat and BBQ-type of food with high-temperature heating process. This may increase our health risk. The study of Dr Wang discovers that the selective use of natural condiments as meat seasoning does not only help reducing the formation of carcinogenic heterocyclic amines significantly, but together with appropriate cooking method, such condiments can also lead to the formation of some novel food components that helps preventing cancer. These useful condiments include narigenin-containing grapefruit, orange peel, tomato sauce, proanthocyanidin-containing cinnamon and green tea, etc. The new discovery may be incorporated into our daily cooking practice to improve our life quality.
The Outstanding Young Researcher Award is made to academic staff at the rank of Associate Professor and below the age of 40, who demonstrates outstanding research accomplishments of international recognition and involvement in high-impact applied research work. This award, together with many other awards for outstanding academics and Faculty members, will be presented at the Award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching, Research and Knowledge Exchange on 27 March (Wednesday) at 5pm in Loke Yew Hall of HKU.
For the powerpoint of the press briefing, please view at http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/BBQ2.ppt
For press enquiry and interview arrangement, please contact :
Rhea Leung, Manager (Media) of Communications and Public Affairs Office
at 2857 8555 / 9022 7446 or rhea.leung@hku.hk; or
Cindy Chan, Communication Manager of Faculty of Science
at 2241 5286/ 6703 0212 or  cindycst@hku.hk .
