[title]Lunch with a Nobel Laureate[/title]
[date]23 Nov 2010[/date]
 


Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi joined students from secondary schools and HKU in a lunchtime dialogue
A group of 20 secondary school students, who come from Diocesan Girl's School, Queen's college, Sha Tin Government Secondary School and PLK Vicwood KT Chong Sixth Form Colleage, together with medical undergraduates from the University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine joined the "Lunch with a Nobel Laureate" activity and had a dialogue with Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, recipient of 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine, over an informal lunch today (November 23, 2010).
The lunch, which was held in the Vice-Chancellor's residence, the University Lodge, provided a rare opportunity for the young students to meet face-to-face with Nobel Laureate beyond lecture halls. In the two-hour dialogue, students and Professor Barré-Sinoussi discussed various issues including the AIDS epidemic and the latest advancement in AIDS treatment. Professor Barré-Sinoussi also shared her tips to success and views on meaning of life with the students.
In appreciation of Professor Barré-Sinoussi's generous sharing, students presented gifts with Hong Kong's features to her in this special occasion, such as a paper fan, notebooks and a pinwheel. They hoped Professor Barré-Sinoussi could have a good impression on Hong Kong and enjoy her visit in the city.
Knowledge Exchange has been an important element of the University's mission. A series of Centenary Distinguished Lectures will be held as part of the 100th anniversary celebrations of HKU. Featuring Nobel Prize recipients and distinguished laureates from different disciplines, the Lecture series aims to bring some of the most brilliant minds of today to HKU. To further promote these knowledge exchange activities beyond the University, the "Lunch with a Nobel Laureate" activity is specially arranged for the visiting Nobel Laureates and secondary school students, with an aim to inspire more young students by the sharing of the sages.

 


Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi generously shared her experience and insights with the HKU medical students and secondary school students at the occasion of the “Lunch with Nobel Laureate”.
 
Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi generously shared her experience and insights with the HKU medical students and secondary school students at the occasion of the “Lunch with Nobel Laureate”.

Students from Sha Tin Government Secondary School presented a pinwheel to Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, with a wish that it will bring her good luck and fortune in her AIDS vaccine research.
 
Students from Queen’s College presented a notebook with a cover made of the Hong Kong specialty “red, white and blue nylon bag” material to Professor Barré-Sinoussi. Apart from the colours are the same with the French national flag, they chose the gift because the bag represented the hardworking and tough virtues of Hong Kong people, which are similar to the French scholar who had been working in the AIDS research for years.

Students from PLK Vickwood KT Chong Sixth Form College presented blank notebooks named with famous novels of Jinyong. They believed these special notebooks symbolize Professor Barré-Sinoussi’s spirit of creativity and innovation. The explained and said as a scientists like her, she learns and takes reference from the predecessors, while she also thinks out of the box and not be confined with the predecessors’ works.
 
Professor Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and the students took a group photo after the enjoyable lunch gathering.
 
 
 
