[title]HKU holds Information Day for Undergraduate Admissions 2012[/title]
[date]10 Nov 2012[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held an Information Day for Undergraduate Admissions 2012 today (November 10).
An opening ceremony was held at the podium of the new Centennial Campus in the morning to kick off the day’s activities. Two admission talks were held to brief interested parents and students on the admission arrangements and requirements through JUPAS and non-JUPAS.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, who is currently out of town, greeted attendants at the talks in a video. He hopes the day’s activities would introduce to them the University's culture and give them a taste of the campus life.
Professor Tsui introduced to them particularly the Centennial Campus, which has many sustainability features, public facilities and open space, and is known as a “green oasis” in the Western District.
“This inspiring, vibrant and technology-rich learning space is supported by a range of services and activities to enhance student experience and to enable skill development.” He said HKU aims to provide the best education to students.
“With our new curriculum and exciting programmes, and a highly conducive learning environment, we are providing the best we can to you, so that you can build a broader knowledge base and to develop a more solid foundation for your holistic development.” He added.
The Information Day aims to showcase HKU’s academic programmes and curriculum, activities and facilities to the public, particularly to the secondary school students, teachers and parents. New teaching and learning facilities of the Centennial Campus, teaching departments and halls of residence are open to the public for a better understanding of the campus life at HKU.
For more information about HKU admissions, please visit: www.hku.hk/dse. 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .



HKU Information Day Opening Ceremony

HKU Information Day Opening Ceremony




HKU Information Day Opening Ceremony


HKU Information Day Opening Ceremony




HKU Information Day.


