[title]HKU Associate Professor receives UGC Teaching Award[/title]
[date]07 Sep 2012[/date]
 
The University Grants Committee (UGC) presented its Teaching Awards at a Dinner cum Presentation Ceremony today (September 6, 2012). Dr David M Pomfret, Associate Professor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) Faculty of Arts is one of the winners.
To honour academics in the UGC-funded institutions for their outstanding teaching performance and achievements, as well as their leadership in and scholarly contributions to teaching and learning within and across institutions, the UGC launched the Teaching Award in 2011. 
Dr Pomfret joined HKU in 2001. Since then, he has distinguished himself as a teacher, a pioneer and a leader within the University and beyond. The depth of Dr Pomfret’s engagement with students and reflections on their learning processes, the thoroughness with which he choreographs his teaching, the tirelessness with which he pursues perfection, and his remarkable record of sustained teaching excellence mark him as a highly unusual, talented and charismatic teacher.
To recognise Dr Pomfret’s excellence in teaching and how he has contributed to the enhancement of teaching and learning at HKU, he was awarded the University’s Outstanding Teacher Award in 2010/2011. He was also presented with the Outstanding Young Researcher Award in 2007/2008.
Dr Pomfret said, "A generational shift is transforming young people's approaches to learning, as technology changes the way that they study and work.” 
“This new generation, accustomed since childhood to engaging with interactive media and visual agorae, are bringing new skills, competencies, and expectations to learning.” 
“Through the development of learner-centred approaches, teachers can rethink the classroom to facilitate the kind of revelatory learning that will equip these students for social empowerment and personal emancipation." 
Vice-Chancellor and President, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said, “It is truly encouraging to note that our colleagues have been honoured with the Award in two consecutive years since its inception. This is clear evidence of the excellent quality of teaching and learning at the University. 
Professor Richard A Glofcheski, Professor of the Department of Law of HKU, was one of the two UGC Teaching Award winners in 2011. 
For more information of the UGC Teaching Award, please visit the following site: http://www.ugc.edu.hk/eng/ugc/publication/press/2012/pr06092012.htm
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.

Dr David M Pomfret receives inaugural UGC Teaching Award (UGC photo)

Chairman of the University Grants Committee (UGC), Mr Edward Cheng, and Members of the Selection Panel of the 2012 UGC Teaching Award took a group photo with the three recipients of the UGC Teaching Award 2012 at the presentation ceremony. (From left) Professor Richard Ho Man-wui, Mr Edward Cheng, Dr David M Pomfret, Professor Liu Zhi-Qiang, Professor Shekhar Madhukar Kumta, Professor Poon Wai-yin, Professor William Kirby and Mr Clifton Chiu Chi-cheong.


Dr. David M Pomfret, Associate Professor of the Faculty of Arts

Dr David M Pomfret, School of Humanities (History)


Dr Pomfret was awarded the University’s Outstanding Teacher Award in 2010



