[title]HKU Civil Engineering and Computer Science Rank High in 2014 QS University Subject Rankings in Engineering &amp; Technology[/title]
[date]26 Feb 2014[/date]
 
HKU Civil Engineering and Computer Science continued to position amongst world-class universities, as evidenced by their latest rankings being at the 10th and 14th respectively in 2014 QS University Subject Rankings in Engineering &amp; Technology, announced on February 26, 2014.  This can be regarded as an acknowledgement of our uncompromising commitment to teaching and research excellence.  The rankings, together with the University’s close ties with the industry, position our students strongly in their ongoing development.
Professor S.C. Wong, Head of Civil Engineering, said: “We are pleased that our Department is representative of Hong Kong in the top global education arena.  We deeply appreciate the recognition given to our performance by peers around the world in this exercise.  Our Department regards this achievement as an acknowledgement of our continuous commitment to strive for teaching and research excellence.  At the same time we remain apprehensive of the challenges that lie ahead and the need for continuous improvement and innovation to remain internationally competitive. “
Professor W. Wang, Head of Computer Science said: “We are fortunate to have been placed in the league of top computer science departments in the world again this year by the QS University Subject Rankings in Engineering &amp; Technology.  Although ranking is never in our agenda to continually gear the department to better serve our students and the society, the good news brings immense encouragement to all our staff and students and confirms that our insistence and efforts on always pushing for the highest qualities in education, research and services do pay off.  This department has been and is built on the principle of being always on the lookout for changes for the better, which we believe is one of the factors contributing to our strength in the eyes of many others in this fast changing society.  We pledge to continue to maintain this dynamics in our endeavors to reach for even higher goals in the future.”
The rankings are based on research citations, alongside reputational surveys of over 90,000 academics and graduate employers worldwide. For further information, please visit: http://www.topuniversities.com/subject-rankings/2014.
For enquiries, please contact Ms Jolly Li, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2241 5953 / email: jollyli@hku.hk).
