[title]"Where you live can affect how active you are"[/title]
[date]29 Nov 2007[/date]
 
A TEAM OF HKU RESEARCHERS IS INVESTIGATING HOW THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT AFFECTS OUR ACTIVITY PATTERNS
It is well known that an active lifestyle has many benefits in reducing the risk of heart disease, diabetes, and several forms of cancer.  Research done at The University of Hong Kong already shows that more people in Hong Kong are at risk of dying from physical inactivity than they are from smoking.  But it is not so well known how structures in the area we live in such as buildings, streets, sidewalks, access of shops and facilities (the "built environment") can affect how active we are. 
A team of researchers at the Institute of Human Performance at The University of Hong Kong has been successful in gaining four prestigious UGC-CERG and Health and Health Services Research Fund grants to study how the unique built environment of Hong Kong affects the activity patterns of Hong Kong Chinese.  The team leaders include Dr Duncan Macfarlane, Dr Ester Cerin, Dr Cindy Sit, plus a number of other researchers in the Community Medicine, Geography, and Real Estate and Construction departments, Family Medicine Unit, and Centre for Advancement in Special Education. 
Preliminary studies show Hong Kong citizens need to be more active.
An international study coordinated by Professor Adrian Bauman from Sydney University has used data collected in Hong Kong with the help of Dr Macfarlane, that shows Hong Kong residents ranked a lowly 15th out of 20 international countries in the amount of exercise they achieve that improves health and fitness.  A research paper recently published by Dr Cerin and Dr Macfarlane in the international journal "Cities" (June 2007) also showed there were big differences in how residents perceive their neigbourhood between two residential areas of high status (Pokfulam and Mid-Levels), compared to two low status areas (Sham Shui Po and Lin Fa Tei). 
Why is this research so important to Hong Kong?
Dr Macfarlane stated that "Hong Kong has many unique environmental features not found in other high-density cities: the extreme density of areas such as Mong Kok and Sham Shui Po; the relatively small flats (often &lt; 700 sq feet); and many highly walkable neighbourhoods".  A highly walkable neighbourhood is one where you can easily walk to most shops within 5-10 minutes, unlike many American neighbourhoods, where you must drive to get to the shops.  In fact, Professor Larry Frank, and expert in urban transport design from the University of British Columbia said "Hong Kong is unbelievable - it has the highest levels of walkability of any city I have ever seen!  It is ideal for this type of research". 
What will these studies look at?
Dr Cerin leads a team looking at what characteristics of your neighbourhood make is more friendly for walking, whilst Dr Macfarlane's team examines whether access to local recreational facilities increases the chances of you being more moderate-to-vigorously active. "We also want to ask people what they think of their neighbourhood and to measure the activity patterns of some residents using questionnaires and small activity monitors", they said.  Dr Sit's research focuses on children with disabilities and examines whether the environment at special schools has a role in determining activities patterns during structured (PE class) and non-structured activities (before/after school and recess). 
Public Health implications
Studies overseas suggest that short-term intervention strategies to improve community activity levels often do not work.  Health professionals now think that changes made to our built environment may have bigger effects over the long-term because we can experience their benefits every day. 
"If we can find out what factors in our built environment have a positive effect on increasing walking and moderate-to-vigorous activity, then we may be able to influence town planning policy to promote a healthier and more activity-friendly environment.  This ultimately could reduce the Hospital Authority's health costs associated with treating inactivity-related disorders" according to Professor Bruce Abernethy, Director of the Institute of Human Performance. 
Future Plans
Researchers at the Institute of Human Performance will soon be visiting some high and low walkable areas in Hong Kong to recruit volunteers for Dr Macfarlane's and Dr Cerin's studies.  The volunteers will be asked some questions about their activity habits, what their neighbourhood is like, and if they would like to have their activity patterns measured using a small harmless electronic movement-sensor.  To encourage participation, each volunteer could receive up to $400 in supermarket vouchers, some souvenirs, and be entered into a lucky-draw for $2,000. "We want our volunteers to be happy participating in our research project", said Dr Cindy Sit. 
For further information - please contact either Dr Macfarlane or Dr Cerin on 28179576 (in English) or Dr Cindy Sit on 25890598 (for Cantonese speakers) 
For a photograph of the three staff leading these projects, please point your browser to: http://www.hku.hk/ihp/press/
NB: If your news organization decides to publish any of this information, could you please inform the IHP (Cindy Chan 28179576) so that we can track all media interest.  Thank you for your interest in these projects. 

