[title]Building History Together: The HKU Centennial Campus Kick-Off Ceremony[/title]
[date]27 Feb 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) Centennial Campus Kick-Off Ceremony was held today (Feb 27, 2008) on site to the west of the current Main Campus. Over 400 guests, HKU alumni, colleagues and students attended the ceremony.
The HKU Centennial Campus development will be counting on the collaboration with and support of various government departments, colleagues, alumni, students and friends of HKU, and last but not least, the community.
Scheduled for completion in 2011/2012, the new campus will create a teaching and learning environment fit for the 21st century and worthy of a world-class, research-led, international university.
Following the opening of ceremony by Dr the Hon David Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor, Dr Victor Fung, HKU Council Chairman said: "Over the decades, the University has made prominent contributions to human knowledge, nurtured generations of outstanding leaders on all fronts. As our society and the world continue to advance, The University of Hong Kong will also be taking bold strides forward, marching steadfastly towards its Centenary."
Models featuring aspects of the Centennial Campus were displayed in public for the first time at the ceremony.
Mr Jack So, Chairman of the HKU Campus Development and Planning Committee, said: "We are standing on the site of a very important project that will ensure even greater glory for HKU. I want to especially thank the various government departments, community leaders and the public for making this Centennial Campus dream possible."
The officiating guests at the ceremony included the Hon Mrs Rita Fan, President of the Legislative Council; The Hon Michael Suen, Secretary for Education; The Hon Frederick Ma, Secretary for Commerce &amp; Economic Development; Dr the Hon York Chow, Secretary for Food &amp; Health; The Hon Mrs Carrie Lam, Secretary for Development and The Hon Edward Yau, Secretary for the Environment. They were each invited to lay a ceremonial brick as an example of leadership in preparing a solid foundation for all HKU students.
Other officiating guests included Dr the Hon David Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor; Dr Victor Fung, Chairman of HKU Council; Mr Jack So, Chairman of the Campus Development and Planning Committee, HKU; Dr Philip Wong, Chairman of the HKU Foundation; and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU Vice-Chancellor.
Costing $2.5 billion, the development will provide a Net Operational Floor Area of 42,130 square metres, with three new buildings for the Faculty of Arts, Faculty of Social Sciences and the Faculty of Law.
The expanded campus will cater for a 40% increase in student numbers in 2012, due to the introduction of a 4-year undergraduate curriculum and the increased intake of non-local students. Three heritage buildings will be preserved in-situ.
At this stage, the re-provisioning of the reservoirs has commenced and is expected to be completed by mid-2009, when construction of the Centennial Campus will commence. [For further details of the project, please refer to the enclosed.]
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office (Tel: 2241 5677) or Ms. Cherry Cheung, External Relations Office, HKU. (Tel: 2859 2606 / Mobile: 8208 1686 / email: cherry.cheung@hku.hk)
