[title]The HKU Sau Po Centre on Ageing receives a million dollar donation
to support academic initiatives in dementia care[/title]
[date]15 Jul 2013[/date]
 


(from left) Prof Cecilia Chan, Head of the HKU Department of Social Work and Social Administration, Dr Ng Siu-man, Mr Joe Ma, Dr Karen Cheung.

Dr Ng Siu-man, Acting Director of the HKU Sau Po Centre on Ageing, receives a HK$1M cheque from Mr Joe Ma, raised from the JMK China Wedding Anniversary Charity Dinner.

 The Sau Po Centre on Ageing of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) received a HK$1M donation raised from the JMK China Wedding Anniversary Charity Dinner. The donation will support the academic initiatives in dementia care with an aim to raising public awareness and care to dementia patients, their families and caregivers.
The JMK China Wedding Anniversary Charity Dinner was organized by the renowned artist, Mr Joe Ma, and his wife, Dr Karen Cheung, on June 28, 2013 to send a positive and caring message to the public. All proceeds after the deduction of necessary expenses will be donated to the Sau Po Centre on Ageing to support the Centre’s innovative research, education and knowledge exchange activities in dementia care.
Mr Joe Ma said, “My wife and I are most delighted to share our joy with our guests at the china wedding charity anniversary dinner, and to join hands with our guests to help dementia patients and their families.” Dr Karen Cheung is an Honorary Research Fellow of the HKU Sau Po Centre on Ageing, and an Honorary Assistant Professor of the HKU Department of Social Work and Social Administration. Dr Cheung is devoted to enhancing the quality-of-life of the elderly and the standard of elderly services through gerontology research and population studies.

Dr Terry Lum, Director of the HKU Sau Po Centre on Ageing delivering a congratulatory speech at the JMK China Wedding Anniversary Charity Dinner.

Guests at the Charity Dinner were supportive to the academic initiatives of dementia care.


About the HKU Sau Po Centre on Ageing
The Sau Po Centre on Ageing was officially launched in April 1999 under the auspices of the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Hong Kong. With an endowment from Mr Kwok Sau-po, the Centre was renamed the Sau Po Centre on Ageing in 2002. The Centre aims to become a leading research centre on gerontology in the greater China and in the Asian Pacific region. Through its research, education and knowledge exchange activities, the Centre enhances the quality-of-life of older people in the greater China, overseas Chinese societies and in the Asian Pacific region. Website: http://ageing.hku.hk
Media enquiries:
Ms. Eva Mak, Executive Officer, Sau Po Centre on Ageing (tel: 2831 5182 email: evamak@hku.hk )
