[title]HKU appoints two new Pro-Vice-Chancellors and the Dean of Arts[/title]
[date]26 Nov 2014[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong has appointed on November 25 (Tuesday) Professor Ian Holliday as the Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Teaching and Learning), Mr Douglas So as the Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Institutional Advancement) and Professor Derek Collins as the Dean of Arts, each for a term of five years.
The Council approved the unanimous recommendations of the search committees for the appointments of the posts, each appointment being made after a worldwide search.
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Teaching and Learning) designate Professor Ian Holliday has been with the University since 2006, first serving as Dean of Social Sciences until 2011, and then as Professor in the Department of Politics and Public Administration.  He introduced major innovations in teaching and learning when he was Dean of Social Sciences, such as the twin overarching themes of social innovation and global citizenship, and through these credit-bearing programmes, students gain valuable insight into experiential learning. Professor Holliday is expected to take up the appointment from January 1, 2015.  
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Institutional Advancement) designate Mr Douglas So is an HKU alumnus. His last appointment was with the Hong Kong Jockey Club which he joined in 2000, first as Legal Counsel, then was promoted to become Head of Legal Services and Company Secretary, and later as General Counsel and Executive Director, Charities in 2010.  In his last position, Mr So oversaw the operations of the Jockey Club Charities Trust, one of the largest charities in the world.  He is expected to take up the appointment from March 1, 2015.
Professor Derek Collins will succeed Professor Douglas Kerr as the Dean of Arts, probably from July 1, 2015. Professor Collins is currently the Associate Dean for Humanities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Greek and Latin, Department of Classical Studies, at the University of Michigan.  He is a highly accomplished scholar specialising in archaic Greek poetry, Latin literature and history of the classical tradition, religion and magic.  He has extensive administrative and leadership experience as chairman/member of university committees and advisory boards and also at the faculty level. 
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (University Relations) Professor SP Chow will retire when his current term expires at the end of December 2014. Professor Douglas Kerr will continue as the Dean of Arts for seven more months before the arrival of Professor Collins.
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Mathieson thanked Professor Chow and Professor Kerr for their contributions to the University.
He said: “I wish to take this opportunity to convey to Professor Chow my deep gratitude for his strong dedication and outstanding contributions in advancing the University and laying a solid foundation for development and community networks. I would also like to thank Professor Kerr for his contribution as the Dean of Arts in the past year and the coming months.”
Professor Mathieson also took the opportunity to welcome the new appointees to the important positions, saying: “Professor Holliday, with his passion for teaching and learning, his familiarity with the University and his deep understanding of its culture, curriculum and challenges, will be able to bring the University’s development in teaching and learning to the next stage. Mr So has worked with stakeholders from different sectors on community projects and is familiar with the charity scene of Hong Kong.  He will focus on alumni, community relations and fundraising for the University.”
“We are confident Professor Collins will provide excellent leadership to the Faculty of Arts so that it will continue to advance and excel.” He added.
For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office: Assistant Director (Media) Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk; or Senior Manager (Media) Ms Melanie Wan, tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
