[title]Professor Chow Shew-Ping appointed HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor for University Relations and Dr Albert Chau reappointed HKU Dean of Student Affairs[/title]
[date]29 Jan 2008[/date]
 

Professor Chow Shew-Ping, Chair of Orthopaedics and Traumatology of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), has been appointed Pro-Vice-Chancellor for University Relations of HKU for a term of five years on a full-time basis. 
The HKU Council today (January 29) approved the appointment recommended by HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui based on the proposal of the Search Committee, which conducted a thorough and open search process locally and internationally. 
Professor Chow's (Pic 1) portfolio will include raising community support and donations, enhancing alumni relations, and promoting the involvement of alumni, friends and supporters in the HKU family. 
Professor Chow will take over from Professor Lee Chack-Fan, who will assume the Directorship of the HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (SPACE). The exact date that Professor Chow will report to his new post is to be decided. 
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui thanked Professor Lee for his dedication and achievements as Pro-Vice-Chancellor in expanding and enhancing support for HKU on many fronts, and in raising HKU's visibility in Hong Kong, Mainland China and internationally. "His work has greatly helped the University garner the necessary resources for pursuing excellence in teaching and research," said Professor Tsui. 
Professor Tsui also welcomed the appointment of Professor Chow. "Professor Chow's 35-year service with the University, outstanding achievements in the medical and academic fields, and enthusiastic involvement in professional and community services have earned him a strong base of respect within the HKU family and in the local community, Mainland China and the international arena. I have no doubt that this network of support will be very valuable to HKU's development, particularly in the face of the forthcoming challenges of the new 4-year academic system and the centennial developments of the University," he remarked. 
Professor Chow said he was glad to take up the position at this time. "Although the University faces some unprecedented challenges in the next few years, there are also ample opportunities awaiting us. I feel honoured and obliged to serve the University by amassing the support of students, staff, alumni, friends and partners so that we can leverage on the strength of the HKU family to take the University to new heights of excellence." 
Professor Chow is currently also the Board Chairman of the Medical Faculty of the University. He joined HKU's Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in 1973, and was Dean of the Medical Faculty from 1995 to 1998. He was also the University's Pro-Vice-Chancellor from 2000 to 2001. 
Dr Albert Chau reappointed Dean of Student Affairs
The Council also approved the reappointment of Dr Albert Chau (Pic 2) as the Dean of Student Affairs for a further term of five years from April 1, 2008. 
During his deanship in the past three years, the Centre of Development and Resources for Students (CEDARS) was established by integrating the former offices for student personal development and counselling, career placement and student affairs. 
Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "Dr Chau's popularity with our students and his dedication towards youth development is widely recognised. The implementation of the new 4-year curriculum will result in a substantial increase in the University's student numbers. With our ongoing internationalisation, we will also see a greater diversity in our student population. I am confident that the CEDARS team under Dr Chau will continue to successfully nurture well-rounded HKU students with the leadership abilities needed for a globalised society." 
Claiming it a privilege and honour to serve as the Dean of Student Affairs, Dr Chau said: "I shall continue to work with students and colleagues to build a student-centred, intellectually stimulating and culturally rich campus environment for students to develop their talents and aspirations as young intellectuals. We shall expand our co-curricular learning programmes to complement the formal curriculum in order to achieve the educational goals of the University." 
Dr Chau is also currently Associate Professor of the Department of Psychology and Director of General Education of HKU. He graduated from HKU in 1983 with a bachelor's degree in engineering, and obtained his Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA in 1992. 
Picture 1
Picture 2
 
