[title]The Hon Chief Justice Andrew Li Kwok Nang Appointed as Honorary Professor of the HKU Faculty of Law[/title]
[date]23 Aug 2010[/date]
 
Faculty of Law, The University of Hong Kong is proud to announce the appointment of The Hon Andrew Li Kwok Nang, Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal ("CFA"), as Honorary Professor of the Faculty.  Chief Justice Li's appointment commences on September 1, 2010. 
Professor Johannes Chan SC (Hon), Dean of Law highly commended the Chief Justice for his dedication and contribution during his tenure, "Chief Justice Li has established a fine reputation of independence of our judiciary, and developed a moderate jurisprudence characterized by its generous and liberal approach to preserving and sustaining fundamental rights and freedoms cherished by all of us in a civil society.  He has brought to Hong Kong many distinguished judges to serve on the CFA, whose wisdom and experiences have enriched our jurisprudence.  It is extremely privileged for HKU and our students to be able to be benefited by the wisdom and immense experience of the Chief Justice."
In response to his appointment, the Chief Justice said, "I am greatly honoured by the offer of appointment as Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Law.  I look forward to contributing to the Faculty."
Following the announcement of his retirement, the Faculty and the legal world have been paying tribute to the legacy of the Chief Justice. The Conference "Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal: The Andrew Li Court 1997-2010", held in March presented various perspectives on final appeals in Hong Kong, examined the role of the CFA and its judges under the Basic Law, and analyzed how the CFA has developed the law since 1997.  The Faculty was also honoured to have Chief Justice Li as the twelfth speaker of its Common Law Lecture Series, which was established 5 years ago with his encouragement and support. The lecture titled "Reflections on the Retrospective and Prospective Effect of Constitutional Judgments" was one of the highlights celebrating the Faculty's 40th Anniversary and concluded his insights and final thoughts as the Chief Justice.   
About The Hon Andrew Li Kwok Nang
Chief Justice Li was appointed as the first Chief Justice of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on 1 July 1997. Before his appointment, Chief Justice Li practiced at the Hong Kong Bar. After obtaining the degrees of Master of Arts and Master of Laws from Cambridge University, he was called to the Middle Temple in 1970, and the Hong Kong Bar three years later.  He was appointed Queen's Counsel in 1988. He is also an Honorary Bencher of the Middle Temple and an Honorary Fellow of Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge.  
Over the years, Chief Justice Li has rendered numerous public services. He was a member of the Executive Council and has served on many boards and committee, including as Chairman of the then University and Polytechnic Grants Committee and the Land Development Corporation, and as member of the Judicial Service Commission, the Law Reform Commission and the Securities Commission. He has a strong interest in education, and is, of course, a great friend of HKU and the Faculty.  He received an Honorary Degree of Doctorate in Law in 2001, alongside a number of honorary doctorate degrees that he has received from other universities.  With a view to help building law and the legal system in China, he set up and became a trustee of the Friends of Tsinghua University Law School Charitable Trust.  He was awarded the Grand Bauhinia Medal by the Hong Kong Government in 2008.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Rachel Li (Tel: 2859 2919 / Email: lirachel@hku.hk)

