[title]HKU Salutes Distinguished Academics[/title]
[date]17 Nov 2005[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (November 17, 2005) held the Award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching and Research 2005 in recognition of the extraordinary enthusiasm, dedication and talent of distinguished teaching and research colleagues.
Professor Wang Gungwu, former Vice-Chancellor of HKU and currently the Director of the East Asia Institute in the National University of Singapore was the Guest of Honour. He and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, the Vice-Chancellor, together with 12 awardees and 200 invited guests shared moments of pride and joy.
Ever since the early days, HKU has striven to sustain and enhance its excellence as a pre-eminent institution through outstanding teaching and world-class research. In his opening remarks, Professor Tsui reiterated such commitment without the slightest hesitation: “Our prowess in teaching and research lies at the heart of our reputation, and it is right that we should acknowledge our colleagues whose performance has helped to boost this reputation. Not only does this ceremony give us an opportunity for thanking them, but I hope it will also encourage others to strive to emulate their fine example.”
Professor Wang Gungwu reminded those at present of the long and winding road that have been come through by those who were honoured today:“We should remember that the citations we have heard read out today have compressed into a minute or so the achievements of many months, if not years, of painstaking effort dedicated to teaching or research. Today’s award winners have all devoted a great deal of time and effort to their work, and it is right that their efforts should be recognised in this way by the University.”
The Award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching and Research is its fifth year, and is a remarkable occasion for the University to salute to those who excel in their daily works of teaching and research. This year, there are altogether 12 awards from 5 major categories to be given to teaching fellows and outstanding researchers. 
For media enquiries, please contact Elsie Leung of HKU's External Relations Office direct by phone at 2859 2600.
