[title]World Bank Coordinator: Keep investing tertiary education to prepare for post-crisis growth[/title]
[date]24 Mar 2009[/date]
 
The impact of financial crisis is yet to be seen, but cutting investment on tertiary education is definitely not the answer, according to Dr. Jamil Salmi, tertiary education coordinator at the World Bank, in the first Tin Ka Ping Education Fund Distinguished Lecture in The University of Hong Kong.  His advice on the prospect of any institution depends on how stakeholders would react to change. The crisis provides an opportunity for further investment in the engine of growth for the future. Universities should also be exploring possible multiple funding sources and practice contingency planning.
In his Lecture on "Universities: Will they remain the same?" Dr. Jamil Salmi stated that the challenges ahead include technology advancement and changing of education and training needs. He advised universities to adapt new pedagogical approaches with focus on learning tailored to needs of individual rather than teaching; new and varied modalities for learning interactive and collaborative learning and reliance on advanced education technology in appropriate ways; representation of knowledge and concept should be able to deliver in multiple ways.
Dr Jamil Salmi is the tertiary education coordinator at the World Bank.  He embeds the experience of advising over 40 countries in the shaping of their policies of higher education reform.  With his collection of innovative ideas and practices in the international arena, he is known for his visions about higher education development as well as his pragmatic approaches to policy issues. 
Prior to the Lecture, Faculty of Education, The University of Hong Kong was holding an inauguration ceremony for the "Tin Ka Ping Education Fund" and the first distinguished lecture of the Fund. Mr Tin Ting Sin, Dennis, representative of Tin Ka Ping Education Fund, Professor S.P. Chow, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Professor Shirley Grundy, Dean of Faculty of Education were the officiating guests of the ceremony.
Professor S.P. Chow thanked Dr. Tin and members of the Tin Ka Ping Foundation for their staunch support for the University and Dr. Jamil Salmi for his launching the Distinguished Lectures. Professor Chow hoped these Distinguished Lectures will not only serve as a forum for exchanges of knowledge and expertise, but also helped to initiate long-term partnerships between scholars and researchers from different institutions around the world.
"Tin Ka Ping Education Fund" was established in 2008 with the generous donation from Dr. Tin Ka Ping and the University's matching fund.  The Fund has been used for organizing Tin Ka Ping Distinguished Lecture, Tin Ka Ping Education Seminar Series and Tin Ka Ping Visiting Fellowship Scheme, to strengthen the educational and academic connection, collaboration and cultural exchange between the Faculty and higher education in China.
For media enquiry and interview request, please contact Ms. Queenie Wong, Development and Communications Manager, Faculty of Education, HKU (Tel: 2219 4270 / mobile: 9220 5840 / fax: 2540 6360 / email: qlpwong@hku.hk) or Ms. Trinni Choy, Assistant Director of External Relations (Tel: 2859 2606 / mobile: 9464 3431 / Fax: 2858 4986 / email: pychoy@hku.hk)
