[title]2,103-strong HKU Marathon Team wins Top Prize for the Third Year[/title]
[date]16 Feb 2008[/date]
 

For three years in a row, the Marathon Team of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has won the Top Prize of the Most Supportive Group Award for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon. A total of 2,103 alumni, students, staff, and their families joined the HKU banner this year, representing an increase of 15% from the number of 1,812 last year. 
Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui will lead the HKU team to run at the Marathon this Sunday (February 17). He will participate in the 10-Km category. This year, over 75% of the HKU Team are HKU alumni and their families, ranging from 9 years old to 70 years old. 
On behalf of the University, Professor Paul Cheung, Chair of the Organising Committee of HKU Marathon Team 2008, received the award with some team members yesterday (February 15) from the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon. Over 100 members and friends of HKU will also volunteer as support and cheering team on the day. 
Under the theme of "United We Run!", the HKU Marathon Team, since 2006, aims at encouraging students, staff and alumni of HKU to participate in the sport of running. The Team believes that "a fit body makes for a fit mind" and that running trains one's body and mind, particularly the endurance and perseverance. In order to introduce running to University members and to encourage them to join the event, the HKU Marathon Team Organising Committee has provided a series of seminars and training sessions to both beginners and experienced runners on safe running and ways of enhancing performance. 
Sports Fund for Students
The HKU Marathon Team also takes the opportunity to solicit team members' support of it's the "Sports Fund for Students" established last year. The Fund aims to support HKU students who aspire to achieve excellence in the sporting arena. Through the Fund, financial assistance would be offered to students for preparation or participation in international or overseas competitions, or to purchase or update sports equipments. 
Ms Elaine Chan Yu-ning, who has qualified to represent Hong Kong in the women's 50-metre freestyle at the Beijing Olympics, has been one of the beneficiaries of the Fund. 
Aspiring for excellence, she needs to train 8 times per week, totaling more than 20 hours' hard effort. Along with the intense training, Elaine also needs to juggle with her busy university schedule leaving virtually no spare time for part-time work. Yet for each practice day, she has to travel between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, spending several thousands per month on transportation alone. With the support from the Fund, she can at least practice free of financial cares now. 
The setting up of the Sports Fund and the support from the Marathon Team and University members provide recognition and encouragement to young people who are determined to achieve excellence in sports. 
Photo Captions:-
Picture 1:- Professor Paul Cheung, Chair of the Organising Committee of HKU Marathon Team 2008, received the Most Supportive Group Award with some team members.
Picture 2:- Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui will lead the HKU team to run at the Marathon. He is thrilled by the enthusiasm of the HKU family in participating in the event. 
For photos of the HKU Marathon Team on Marathon day, please access:- &lt;http://www.marathon.hku.hk&gt; after 5:00pm on February 17. 
For media enquiries, please contact:-
- Ms Janet Chung, Development and Alumni Affairs Office, on 2859 2608 
- Ms Denise Wong, External Relations Office, on 2859 2600  
Picture 1
Picture 2
 
