[title]University-produced TV series airs on BBC WORLD NEWS[/title]
[date]09 Jul 2008[/date]
 
Focus Asia Business Leaders, a six-part television series, produced by the University of Hong Kong's Journalism and Media Studies Centre and the School of Business Asia Case Research Centre, will air globally on BBC WORLD NEWS from Friday July 11, 2008.
The half-hour episodes will profile the work of business executives in the greater China area. The first episode will profile Vincent Lo of Shui On Group, followed by Viveca Chan of WE Worldwide Partners, Sir C.K. Chow of MTR Corporation Ltd, Liu Changle of Phoenix Satellite Television, Tong Zhicheng of Guangzhou's Pearl River Piano Group and Lawrence Fung of the Hong Kong Economic Times Group in the weeks ahead.  The profiles are accompanied by studio analysis provided by experts from industry and from the faculty of The University of Hong Kong.
The broadcast of Business Leaders is the first time any university in Hong Kong has produced a television series to be aired on a major international broadcaster.
Narendhra Morar, BBC World News Commissioning Editor, welcomed the series: "We are delighted to be collaborating with The University of Hong Kong in producing Focus Asia Business Leaders. 
"Business is a core part of BBC World News's programming and this series provides audiences with a unique insight into the lives of some of Asia's top business leaders" he added.
Professor Chan Yuen Ying of the University's Journalism and Media Studies Centre commenting on the broadcasts said, "I am gratified for this opportunity for our production team to tell China's story to the world via the BBC"
Professor Ali Farhoomand of the Asia Case Research Centre who supervised the research for the series noted that this series shows how China is emerging as a powerful force in transforming and shaping today's global business landscape.
The Director and Executive Producer of the series is veteran broadcaster Jim Laurie, formerly of ABC News, who teaches at HKU as the Director of the Broadcasting Programme at the JMSC.
The on-air anchor for the series is BBC World News's Karen Koh.
BBC Broadcast times vary from region to region across the BBC Global satellite footprint.  Airtimes in Hong Kong will be Fridays at 1630, 2230, and Saturdays 0430, and Sundays at 1430 from July 11th to August 17th, 2008.  For broadcast times of your country, please visit this webpage: http://www.bbcworldnews.com/Pages/Schedules.aspx
For trailers of the six episodes airing on BBC World News, please visit the ACRC webpage: http://www.acrc.org.hk/focusasia/focusasia_index.asp
Enquiries: Miss. Kylie Chan at the Journalism and Media Studies Centre, G24 Eliot Hall, The University of Hong Kong,, Hong Kong / Email: kyliec@hku.hk / Tel: (852) 2219 4416 / Fax: (852) 2858 8736

