[title]The University of Hong Kong recognised as CFA Program Partner Institution[/title]
[date]26 Oct 2015[/date]
 

Paul Smith, CFA, President and CEO, CFA Institute (Front Row, 7th from Left), Neil Govier, CFA, Head of Education, Asia Pacific, CFA Institute (Front Row, 4th from Left), Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, HKU (Front Row, 8th from Left), Dr. Rujing Meng, Director of the HKU Master of Finance Programme (Front Row, 5th from Left), alumni of the HKU Master Finance Programme and the other faculty representatives, joined hands to launch the CFA Program Partnership.

University students trained in the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge™ will have a strong foundation for CFA Program exam preparation and career success
The University of Hong Kong has become the latest university to be named a CFA Program Partner with its HKU Master of Finance Programme. In addition to this degree program—which covers at least 70% of the CFA Program Candidate Body of Knowledge, including the ethical and professional standards paramount to CFA Institute—the University of Hong Kong is a thought leader in the academic and professional investment management communities and is well-positioned to contribute to the lifelong learning pursuits of more than 139,000 CFA Institute members worldwide. 
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics at the University of Hong Kong, said: “Our honourable partner, CFA Institute, is the gatekeeper and beacon of standards for the financial industry. Launching a programme partnership with them proves that our efforts in providing the best financial education—not just in the areas of academic theory and practical knowledge but also ethics, integrity, and excellence of practice—are highly recognised.”
Dr. Rujing Meng, Director of the HKU Master of Finance Programme, added: “I am glad that we are now a proud partner of CFA Institute—a prestigious identity that signals to students and their potential employers that our curriculum is closely tied to the market. We will continue our efforts to ensure quality resources are provided to our students and help them succeed in the investment and financial sectors.”
“Students in this program study the Candidate Body of Knowledge, which includes knowledge, skills, and abilities that investment experts worldwide have identified as essential best practice,” said Neil Govier, head of education, Asia Pacific, CFA Institute. “By mastering the fundamentals of the CFA Program as well as the Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, these future investment professionals join us in our mission to promote the highest standards of ethics, education, and professional excellence for the ultimate benefit of society.”
Status as a CFA Program Partner signals to potential students, employers, and the marketplace that the university curriculum is closely tied to professional practice and is well-suited to prepare students to sit for the CFA Program examinations.
The CFA Program Partner initiative was launched on 4 April 2006 with the announcement of Saïd Business School at the University of Oxford as the inaugural CFA Program Partner. Since then, CFA Program Partner institutions have been recognized on six continents. Read more about the CFA Program Partner initiative.
About the CFA Program
The CFA Program sets a standard for developing the skills, standards, competence, and integrity of financial analysts, portfolio managers, investment advisers, and other investment professionals worldwide. It is widely considered the investment profession’s most rigorous credentialing program. Administered in English, the CFA curriculum and examinations are identical worldwide. Fewer than one in five candidates who begin the program successfully complete it and go on to earn the coveted CFA charter, the “gold standard” for investment professionals.
About CFA Institute
CFA Institute is the global association of investment professionals that sets the standard for professional excellence and credentials. The organization is a champion for ethical behavior in investment markets and a respected source of knowledge in the global financial community. The end goal: to create an environment where investors’ interests come first, markets function at their best, and economies grow. CFA Institute has more than 139,700 members in 148 countries and territories, including over 132,400 CFA charterholders and 146 member societies. For more information, visit www.cfainstitute.org.
About HKU Master of Finance Programme (MFin)
The HKU Master of Finance Programme (MFin) is an interdisciplinary programme aiming to provide motivated individuals with not only cutting-edge training in financial theory, but also the necessary mathematical, statistical and computer training, allowing them to apply the knowledge in a multitude of financial disciplines. It represents an optimal mix of fundamental and cutting-edge knowledge in all areas of modern finance. While quantitative rigour is an important feature of the programme, it also emphasises the practical applications of advancement in knowledge. Students may concentrate in the area of Corporate Finance, Risk Management or Financial Engineering; or take a double major in any of the two areas. Please visit our website at www.fbe.hku.hk for more information of the Faculty of Business and Economics and the programme.
Media Contacts:
Rachel Lai
CFA Institute
+852 3103 9347
rachel.lai@cfainstitute.org
Helen Wong
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
+852 3917 4311
hgewong@hku.hk
Johnny Tam
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
+852 3917 4488
jtamks@hku.hk
Denise Siu
Strategic Financial Relations Limited
+852 2114 4913
denise.siu@sprg.com.hk
