[title]Premier Wen Jiabao Visited the University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]30 Jun 2003[/date]
 
Premier Wen Jiabao met with more than 100 students and teaching staff at the University of Hong Kong on 30 June 2003 and praised the University's contribution to controlling SARS.This was the first time that a Chinese Premier has visited a university in Hong Kong.
At his meeting with the medical students and faculty members at the University's Yu Chun Keung Medical Library, Premier Wen gave an impromptu address, praising our success in controlling SARS but at the same time reminding us that our mission has not yet been fully accomplished.
He stressed the importance of coming up with better diagnostic tests, much needed treatment and a vaccine.He also highlighted the need for genetic investigations to combat rapid mutations in the coronavirus.He bade the university success in achieving these three goals. 
During his tour, he visited the Cheung Kung Hai Conference Centre, the Genome Research Centre and Yu Chun Keung Medical Library. 
The Premier was greeted by Pro-Chancellor Dr David Li, Council Chairman Dr Victor Fung, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, and Dean of Medicine Professor S K Lam.He was also joined by Secretary for Education and Manpower Professor Arthur Li and Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food Dr E K Yeoh throughout the tour. 
The Dean of Medicine briefed the Premier on the history of the Faculty and also mentioned some of the important projects being conducted in the Faculty including many of which are conducted in collaboration with prominent international scientists, such as Dr. David Ho.The Premier noted with interest Hong Kong's discovery and its applied research capabilities that operate as a technical platform for upstream research.These include our Genome Research Centre.
The Premier was also briefed on the Faculty's efforts in integrating Western and Chinese Medicine and, to a larger extent, in the globalization of medicine.For down-stream research, the Faculty expects to be the leading medical centre in the region and, in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies, to develop drugs and vaccines for the community. 
At the Genome Research Centre, the Premier met with the Head of Microbiology Professor K Y Yuen, Chief of Virology Professor Malik Peiris, and virologist at the Department of Microbiology, Dr. Guan Yi.
Professor Yuen briefed the Premier on how the University managed to track down the agent of SARS with limited resources during the SARS outbreak, while Dr Guan explained to the Premier how they discovered the virus in animals and how to run the test on animals.
Through live video link to the isolated laboratory at the Queen Mary Hospital, where all highly infectious agents are being studied, Premier Wen congratulated the technicians and researchers there for their achievements.After visiting the Genome Research Centre, Premier Wen went to Yu Chun Keung Medical Library and met with some 60 students and teachers of the Medical Faculty along with the presidents of Students' Union and the Postgraduate Student Association of the University of Hong Kong and their three colleagues.
Wishing Hong Kong a better tomorrow, Premier Wen left the University with his motivating parting words: "Hong Kong is China's Hong Kong.It is Hong Kong people's Hong Kong.Hong Kong faces the world." which he emphasized as the most important message to Hong Kong people.
Video clips and pictures will be available at http://hkusub.hku.hk:8250/press/2003-06-30/index.html. 
 
