[title]Hong Kong's First Harvard Model Congress Asia Opens at HKU Around 600 high school students participate[/title]
[date]10 Jan 2014[/date]
 
The 10th conference of the Harvard Model Congress Asia (HMCA) opens today (January 10, 2014) at the University of Hong Kong (HKU). HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui officiated the opening ceremony and welcomed the participants to join Hong Kong's first HMCA conference.
Around 600 high school students from over 80 high schools worldwide such as Indonesia, Singapore, South Korea, USA, Jordan, Spain, Canada, and China, travelled to HKU to attend the conference.
Adam P. Ziemba, President of HMCA 2014 and a student at Harvard, also delivered opening remarks at the ceremony. Professor John P. Burns, Dean of Faculty of Social Sciences at HKU, gave the keynote address at the ceremony.
At this conference, participating high school students will assume the role of a real member of government or a representative of a country in an international organisation, learn about government and international relations through discussing pressing global issues and possible solutions, and gain knowledge and skills crucial to confront the global challenges of the 21st century.
Through simulating the structures of the G20, World Bank, EU, WHO, WTO and governmental senates, student delegates will negotiate and debate with peers from different parts of the world on a variety of political issues ranging from US foreign relations and North Korea, to the war on terror, aid in Africa, higher education reform, and human rights.
Apart from promoting intellectual exchange and reflection on pertinent global issues, HMCA is an opportunity for high school students to gain exposure in a university setting, be mentored by Harvard students and interact with HKU students on campus.
For the programme schedule, please visit http://hmcasia.org/conference-schedule/.
About HMCA
Initiated by a group of Harvard students who are passionate about international relations, government and teaching, the first Harvard Model Congress (HMC) was held in 1986 in Boston. As the leading international and government simulation program for high school students, the model was extended to Asia in 2004 and the Harvard Model Congress Asia (HMCA) was formed and has been committed to providing an immersive educational experience for high school students from across the globe. HKU is their first partner in Hong Kong for 2014 conferences amongst the world. Other than Hong Kong, HMC will also hold conferences in Boston, San Francisco, Dubai and Madrid in 2014. Each year, thousands of high school students have the opportunity to participate in an HMC conference. For details about HMC, please visit http://hmcasia.org/.
For media enquiries, please contact: 
Communications and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (tel: 2857 8555/ 9022 7446, email: rhea.leung@hku.hk) or
Academic Liaison Section Ms Betsy Lee (tel: 2219 4202/ 6373 9927, email: betsylee@hku.hk)


Director of Undergraduate Admissions and International Student Exchange Professor John Spinks, President of HMCA 2014 and Harvard Student Adam P. Ziemba, participating HKU students and high school students from various countries meet the press.

HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui officiates the opening ceremony and welcomes the participants to join Hong Kong's first HMCA conference.





Professor John P. Burns, Dean of Faculty of Social Sciences at HKU, gives the keynote address at the ceremony.

Hong Kong's First Harvard Model Congress Asia (HMCA) opens at the University of Hong Kong.


