[title]HKU Vice-Chancellor Lap-Chee Tsui met 400 alumni and friends at HKU Shanghai Study Centre[/title]
[date]26 Jun 2010[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held a "Shanghai Rendezvous" at the HKU Shanghai Study Centre on June 25. Over 400 alumni came from the United States, Canada, Hong Kong and different cities in China. Alumni from Hong Kong included Ms Leonie Ki, Managing Director of New World China Enterprises Projects Limited; Mr Andrew Lee, Managing Director of Andrew Lee King Fun &amp; Associates Architects Limited; Dr Gallant Ho, Chairman of Board of Directors of Gallant Ho Charities Limited and Dr Joseph Chow, Chairman of Joseph Chow &amp; Partners Limited. 
The alumni from different cities of China included Professor Zhong Xiang-chong, Fellow of Chinese Academy of Sciences, who is 89 years old and is the most senior alumni at the party; Professor Cheng Jing, Deputy Director-general of Beijing Water Authority; Mr Xu Le-jiang, Chairman of Baosteel Group Corporation; Mr Jiang Zhi-quan, Chairman of Shanghai Construction Group; Mr Dai Liu, Chairman of Shanghai World Expo Group Co Ltd; Mr Dicky Yip, Executive Vice President of Bank of Communications. 
HKU has increased significantly its academic collaborations and projects on the Mainland in recent years and has also built a much wider network of partner universities for student exchange. More than 9,000 Mainland students applied for various undergraduate programmes at HKU for the year 2010/2011. With the opening of Shanghai Study Centre in 2008, HKU will further strengthen its Mainland presence and the Study Centre will be a learning icon for students of HKU. 
The Shanghai Study Centre is a four-storey building located at the historical Post Office Building at the north end of the Sichuan Road Bridge, which spans the Suzhou Creek. The Centre was made possible with the support of Mr Chung Kin-kwok in 2007. Now, it houses the Faculty of Architecture, Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) and HKU Journalism and Media Study Centre (JMSC). 
The Faculty of Architecture occupies two floors of the Study Centre for use as a teaching venue. Every Architecture undergraduate in Hong Kong will go to the study centre for a semester in order to learn the city culture and architectural designs of Shanghai. The Faculty also plans to arrange for students to participate in community projects in Shanghai. 
FBE will open its office to students in September this year. The Master of Business Administration (International) programme (IMBA) organised by HKU and Fudan University has become increasingly popular and, in the past 12 years, more than 2,000 students have graduated from the programme. 
JMSC aims to pursue excellence in journalism and fostering Asian voices in the international media. With the facilities at the Study Centre, it plans to hold academic conferences and forums to nurture future media professionals. 
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Bryony Wong of Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office (tel: 2219-4574, email: bryonyw@hku.hk ). 

 


Over 400 alumni and friends attended the “Shanghai Rendezvous” at the HKU Shanghai Study Centre on June 25
 
“Shanghai Rendezvous” at the HKU Shanghai Study Centre

Professor Zhong Xiang-chong, Fellow of Chinese Academy of Sciences, who is 89 years old and is the most senior alumni at the party
 
From the left: Acting Dean of Business and Economic Professor Eric Chang, Mr Xu Le-jiang, Chairman of Baosteel Group Corporation, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and Mr Dai Liu, Chairman of Shanghai World Expo Group Co Ltd.
 
 
 
