[title]"WeOwnTheCity" Community Practice in Architecture and Urban Planning 
Exhibition cum Symposium [/title]
[date]07 Mar 2013[/date]
 
An opening ceremony for the “WeOwnTheCity” Community Practice in Architecture and Urban Planning Exhibition cum Symposium Hong Kong 2013 was held today (March 7) at the Energizing Kowloon East Office in Kwun Tong, while the exhibition will run until March 21, 2013.
The event is jointly organized by the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Hong Kong (HKU); and ARCAM and CITIES, Amsterdam. By displaying examples of community planning from Amsterdam and Hong Kong, “WeOwnTheCity” aims to showcase emerging urban development and community planning initiatives in both cities. The event is supported by the Energizing Kowloon East Office of the Development Bureau, the Netherlands Consulate General in Hong Kong, professional institutions such as Hong Kong Institute of Urban Design, Hong Kong Institute of Architects, Hong Kong Institute of Planners, and general public participants who truly “own the city” through positive and energetic discussions, debates and workshops.
The symposium and exhibition entitled “WeOwnTheCity” is a collaborative endeavour between the HKU Faculty of Architecture and its partners from the Netherlands, and strategically supported by the Energizing Kowloon East Office. It is primarily aimed at raising awareness and ensuring further discussion on community practices in architecture and urban planning. The symposium today has attracted over 200 participants including professionals from the industry, scholars, students, and interested members of the community.
At the symposium, Ms. Francesca Miazzo, of CITIES Foundation, Amsterdam, said: “I am thrilled to see so many professionals and scholars from the industry, and students here to share their views on urban planning policies and practices. I hope this vigorous exchange of ideas in urban planning and community participation will help foster a better living environment for people in both cities.”
Ms Tris Kee, Director of the Community Project Workshop of the Faculty of Architecture, said: “The exhibition brings together experienced practitioners and scholars from Hong Kong and the Netherlands to discuss a wide variety of issues ranging from community and social planning, place making to public engagement in workshops and formulation of best community practices. Both the quantity and quality of public participation in our urban context will be improved.”
WeOwnTheCity Exhibition
Date: March 7 to March 21, 2013
Venue: Energizing Kowloon East Office, 122 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong
Opening hours: 10:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. daily
For more details of the event and photos, please visit:
About WeOwnTheCity
The Faculty of Architecture of the University of Hong Kong is collaborating with ARCAM and CITIES, Amsterdam on an exhibition and symposium entitled WeOwnTheCity. By displaying examples of community planning from both Amsterdam and Hong Kong, WeOwnTheCity aims to showcase emerging urban development and community planning initiatives in both cities. The event is supported by the Energizing Kowloon East Office of the Development Bureau, the Netherlands Consulate General in Hong Kong, professional institutions such as the Hong Kong Institute of Urban Design, Hong Kong Institute of Architects and Hong Kong Institute of Planners; and general public participants who truly “own the city” through positive and energetic discussions, debates and workshops.
About Community Project Workshop
The Faculty of Architecture at the University of Hong Kong is a comprehensive school of architecture, renowned for its teaching, research and community engagement. A significant number of academic staff are actively involved in professional services, including the designing of, and planning for, community projects in China, Hong Kong, and Macau. A recent example of the faculty’s involvement in a community project is the Sichuan-Hanwang Memorial Site Vision Plan, prepared in partnership with Beijing Normal University. This plan served as the catalyst for the establishment of Community Project Workshop (CPW).
CPW provides design and consultancy services to government and non-governmental organizations, and undertakes other non-commercial projects requiring interdisciplinary expertise drawn from all disciplines of the Faculty: Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Architecture Conservation, Real Estate and Construction, and Urban Planning and Design. It will also reach out to other faculties within the university and external consultants, as required.
For enquiries about the exhibition and the symposium, please contact:
HKU Community Project Workshop
Project Director Ms. Tris Kee, tel: 2859 2143, fax: 2559 6484, email: tyckee@hku.hk.
Project Manager Ms. Ruby Ko, tel: 2859 2143, fax: 2559 6484, email: rubyko2004@yahoo.com.hk.
Creative Consulting Group Inc. Ltd.
Mr Andy Hung / Ms Jocelyn Kwok, tel: 2114 0270 / 2372 0090, fax: 2372 0490, mobile: 9254 9250 / 6418 4039,
email: andy@creativegp.com / jocelyn@creativegp.com.
For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU, Assistant Director (Media)  Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 Email: pychoy@hku.hk; Manager (Media) Ms Rhea Leung, tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446 Email: rhea.leung@hku.hk.

WeOwnTheCity Exhibition showcases emerging urban development and community planning initiatives in HK and Amsterdam 

WeOwnTheCity Exhibition promotes community practice in architecture and urban planning



HKU Dean of Architecture Professor David Lung at the opening ceremony

Mr. Wilfred MOHR, Consul General, Netherlands Consulate General in Hong Kong and Macao



WeOwnTheCity Exhibition opening ceremony


