[title]HKU announces updated admission information website www.hku.hk/dse[/title]
[date]16 May 2013[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) announced today (May 16) its website www.hku.hk/dse which will provide relevant and useful information for JUPAS applicants taking HKDSE examination. The website aims to facilitate applicants in making decisions on their programme choices.
Higher education institutes in the territory will undergo admission exercise for the second year in mid-July through JUPAS based on HKDSE results.
HKU has updated in the website its 2012 JUPAS admission scores for reference by applicants.  Besides the provision of the highest and lowest scores required for admission to each programme based on the calculations of the best 5 HKDSE subjects, the updated table also incorporates the highest and lowest scores required for admitting to programmes using 4C+2X principle in the selection. JUPAS applicants and teachers are advised to refer to www.hku.hk/dse from time to time for relevant admission information and updates.
Other information available in the website includes the selection principles (i.e. 4C+2X or Best 5 subjects) for each programme, the list of HKDSE subjects that will be given heavier weighting and interview schedule etc.
From now until the announcement of the HKDSE results, HKU will continue to organize campus events, taster programmes, overnight camps and consultation sessions for JUPAS applicants interested in the University’s programmes. HKU Student Mentors will answer questions about HKU via an online discussion forum in the website.
JUPAS applicants are advised to take the opportunity to obtain as much programme information as possible and participate in various events in the coming two months. All these would be useful to their preparation for the final round of JUPAS programme choice modification after the announcement of the HKDSE results in mid-July.
For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office:
Assistant Director (Media) Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk,or Manager (Media) Ms Rhea Leung, tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk
