[title]HKU responds to enquiries about conferring an honorary degree on Professor Huang Jiefu[/title]
[date]17 Mar 2014[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong has a strong commitment to human rights and a practice of adhering to internationally recognised ethical norms in organ transplantation, which includes obtaining prior consent of the organ donors and/or their families.  Endeavours to comply with the norms should also be reviewed from time to time according to the development of the international standards at that point in time.
The University has due procedures for the award of Honorary Degrees, which are awarded to individuals in recognition of their distinguished service and commitment to the University, the community, and to academia. It has been the tradition of the University to also confer degrees upon those who have made contributions to communities outside Hong Kong or indeed to humanity (such as Mother Teresa, Nelson Mandela, Aung San Suu Kyi).
Professor Huang Jiefu is a renowned world-class surgeon and a distinguished administrator who has played an active role in China’s medical profession, and a promoter of China’s health reform, including the reform in the organ transplant system. Professor Huang has been striving to establish an ethical, sustainable and healthy organ transplantation system consistent with internationally accepted ethical standards to meet the needs of the Chinese people.
He established the National Organ Donation and Transplantation Committee of which he is still Chairman. In 2008 he received a special award from the International Transplantation Society and in 2013 was honoured by the World Health Organization for his outstanding achievements in tobacco control in China. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine and the Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk; Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk; or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2857 8555 email:rhea.leung@hku.hk.
