[title]Young Scientist Scheme (YSS) 
An Eye-opening and Enriching Early Research Experience 
for Outstanding Students in 6901 Bachelor of Science Programme, HKU
[/title]
[date]20 Jan 2016[/date]
 
As a strong, research-oriented faculty, the Faculty of Science at HKU is committed to providing our students with the best science education and incubating future scientists.  To open the window of research frontiers to exceptionally talented students, a Young Scientist Scheme (YSS) will be launched from academic year 2016-2017, of which outstanding undergraduate students can have a taste of early research experience during their studies in the 6901 BSc degree curriculum.
Students accepted to YSS will be exposed to ample authentic learning opportunities of research. They are guaranteed with the following: enrolment in the Faculty’s flagship Summer Research Fellowship (SRF) Scheme to conduct research under the supervision of our professors in the first summer, a further SRF or Overseas Research Fellowship (ORF) in a foreign institution in subsequent years, international exchange, attendance of international scientific conference, guidance from a research mentor individually from the start of the undergraduate study, enrolment in our Frontiers of Science Honours Seminar to learn how our award-winning professors solve their research problems, and an entrance scholarship ranging from HKD 20,000 to HKD 40,000#. Stipends for research programmes will also be available.
From academic year 2016-2017 on, JUPAS students admitted to 6901 BSc programme with a total score of 31 or above in their best 5 HKDSE subjects (Category A subjects and M1/M2) are automatically accepted to YSS. No interview is needed. Selected Non-JUPAS students (local and overseas) will also be invited to enroll in YSS. Other students who are not admitted to YSS can still compete for SRF, ORF and/or international exchange during their study.
#  Scholarship for Non-JUPAS students are considered on a case-by-case basis.
For further information about YSS and our 6901 BSc Programme, please visit http://www.scifac.hku.hk/yss and http://www.scifac.hku.hk/ug/prospective-student  respectively. Examples of research/ exchange partners and student sharing can be found in the supplementary information.
For press enquiry, please contact Ms Cindy Chan, Senior Communication Manager of Faculty of Science, at 3917-5286 or by email at cindycst@hku.hk.

Year 4 Physics student Gabriel Gallardo spending his summer working in CERN through the Overseas Research Fellowship Scheme of HKU Faculty of Science last year. His early research experience facilitates his pursuit of research as his career path.

Year 4 Physics student Gabriel Gallardo spending his summer working in CERN through the Overseas Research Fellowship Scheme of HKU Faculty of Science last year. His early research experience facilitates his pursuit of research as his career path.



Gabriel was one of the 3000 collaborators in the research project of ATLAS at CERN.

Gabriel (third from the left in the second row) had made a lot of friends at CERN during his internship there.




Gabriel presenting his research findings to fellow students at CERN.

From the right: Professor Cheung Wing Sum, Associate Dean of HKU Science (Development and External Relations), Gabriel Gallardo, a local Year 4 BSc student majoring in Physics and his supervisor Dr Yanjun Tu.



