[title]HKU ranked among top ten in "Nature Publishing Index 2010 China"[/title]
[date]12 May 2011[/date]
 
The Nature Publishing Group (NPG) today (May 12) presented the first Nature Publishing Index 2010 China and ranked the University of Hong Kong (HKU) the seventh among its fellow research institutions in China.
The rankings are based on the number of research papers published in 2010 in Nature journals, including Nature and the 16 Nature research journals covering broad areas of basic research. The index is generally taken as an indicator of the strength of research institutions in high quality basic research.
Hong Kong as a whole has been ranked the fifth among Mainland cities in terms of total scientific papers output.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was delighted that HKU has been ranked among the top ten institutions in "Nature Publishing Index 2010 China", which has clearly shown the recognition given to the University's efforts in scientific research and its dedication in sharing with the public at large important scientific discoveries under the strategic goal of Knowledge Exchange.  
He said although rankings and league tables varied with a degree of ambivalence, depending on the choice of ranking criteria and methodologies used in their analyses, they as a whole would provide important reference to the University's development.
Professor Tsui was pleased to see the rise of China in publishing in top scientific journals. He said government support would be crucial to the development of research institutions. As NPG has noted in its survey: "Universities with ‘national key disciplines' receive large amounts of funding from the government to establish research centres, build state key laboratories and recruit top talents for their selected disciplines. As a result, their contribution to innovative research and the number of publications in Nature journals are on the rise."
"The Hong Kong government should consider drastically increasing the funding to support scientific research of local higher institutions, which will surely help Hong Kong to develop into a leading city in scientific research in the country. The Nature index has clearly pointed to the strength and potential of Hong Kong in the area."
Professor Tsui added that without adequate government support, higher institutions would face difficulties in recruiting top scientists to work in Hong Kong and in retaining their best staff, which would result in the loss of competitiveness of the territory.
Over the years, HKU has cast its net wide and attracted funding, talents and international collaboration, enabling the university to produce numerous important discoveries. According to ISI Essential Science Indicators, HKU has 110 scientists who rank among the top one per cent in their field. International recognition has enabled the university to attract high-calibre researchers, teachers and students - not only from Hong Kong, but also mainland China and around the world.
For the "Nature Publishing Index 2010 China" report, please visit: http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/Cindex.pdf
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.

