[title]HKU appoints two new Pro-Vice-Chancellors [/title]
[date]10 Mar 2015[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong has appointed on February 24 (Tuesday) Professor Tzi Sum Andy Hor as the Vice-President/Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) and Professor W John Kao as the Vice-President/Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global), each for a term of five years.
The Council approved the unanimous recommendations of the search committees for the appointments of the posts, each appointment being made after a worldwide search.

Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) designate Professor Tzi Sum Andy Hor
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) designate Professor Tzi Sum Andy Hor is currently on secondment from the National University of Singapore (NUS) as the Executive Director of the Institute of Materials Research &amp; Engineering (IMRE) of the Agency for Science, Technology &amp; Research (ASTAR) of Singapore.  He is Professor of Chemistry of NUS, and among the inaugurated group of fellows of the Teaching Academy of NUS.  He is also Concurrent Professor of Fudan University, China.  He has chaired and served in many committees and advisory bodies, and delivered numerous plenary, keynote and invited lectures in various international, regional and local meetings.  He was awarded the Humboldt, Commonwealth and Association of Southeast Asian Institutions of Higher Learning (ASAIHL) Fellowship, and has received many research and teaching awards in NUS and Singapore.  Professor Hor was born and raised in Hong Kong before he pursued his tertiary education abroad.  He is expected to take up the appointment from September 2015.

Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global) designate Professor W John Kao
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global) designate Professor W John Kao is Vilas Distinguished Achievement Professor of Pharmacy, Surgery, and Biomedical Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (UW-Madison). He is currently an executive director of the Institute for Clinical and Translational Research, a partnership based in UW-Madison of multiple campus affiliates and research-intensive institutes in the Midwest.  He has served as the Associate Dean of the Division of International Studies and holds an adjunct professorship at Zhejiang University.  Professor Kao has an international upbringing, having lived, worked and studied in Asia, US and Europe. He is expected to take up the appointment from September 2015.
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Mathieson welcomed the new appointees to the important positions, saying: “Professor Hor has the aspiration of bringing HKU to be the university-of-choice for global talent and a first-class higher learning institution known for research, innovation and enterprise as well as talent development. Professor Kao, who leads multiple university initiatives in knowledge transfer and international engagement at UW-Madison, is eager to bring his experience to HKU to further shape the future roles of global higher education.”
Vice-President and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) Professor Paul Tam will continue to serve in that post until the arrival of Professor Hor.

Professor Mathieson thanked Professor Tam for his contributions to the University. He said: “I wish to take this opportunity to convey to Professor Paul Tam my warmest appreciation for his strong support and sterling contribution.”
For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office: Assistant Director (Media) Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk; or Manager (Media) Ms Rhea Leung, tel: 2857 8555 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk.

