[title]The University of Hong Kong – Citibank University Banking Course 2005 – 2006 Graduation Ceremony[/title]
[date]12 May 2006[/date]
 


Fifty students successfully completed the course 
Four outstanding students awarded study trip to New York
(Hong Kong)Citibank and the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today held the Graduation Ceremony for "The University of Hong Kong – Citibank University Banking Course 2005-2006".At the Graduation Ceremony, students were presented with the Certificate of Completion and winners of the four "Outstanding Achievement Awards" were announced. 
At the graduation ceremony, Mr. Atul Malik, Country Business Manager, Citigroup Global Consumer Group, said, "It is a great honor for me to present the Certificate of Completion to these fifty exemplary students.They have not only demonstrated dedication to their quest for more knowledge in the financial industry, but have also taken a great step forward in terms of personal financial management.I am sure with our comprehensive coverage of the course, the students will now have a better understanding of the realities of banking, which complements their study in the University."
Fourteen professional bankers from Citibank conducted a total of 17 courses, spanning a three-month period, for the 50 selected students from the Faculty of Business and Economics of HKU.The performance of the students was assessed by a review of their attendance, participation in class discussion, as well as the results of the mid-term test and the final group project. 
During the Graduation Ceremony, four students were awarded the "Outstanding Achievement Awards".These four students will be awarded a study trip to New York, where they will visit the Citigroup headquarters and other financial institutions, as well as local university.This will provide them an opportunity to meet with banking experts and learn about the world's leading financial industry. The group will depart in the summer of 2006. The four awarded students are (in alphabetical order):
- Ms Ho Ka Yan, Corina
- Ms Kwok Kit Ying, Fiona
- Mr. Man Ka Ming, Dickson
- Ms. Sun Lu, Lucy
Citibank also offers interview opportunities for internship to those students who performed satisfactorily in the course.Successful candidates will be offered a two-month internship at Citibank during this summer.
Professor Y.C. Richard Wong, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, HKU, said, "We are very grateful that Citibank organized this course for our students for two years in a row.The course is highly commendable as it offers students not only valuable knowledge on today's banking industry, but demonstrates how this knowledge can be applied in real life.We look forward to the course in the next academic year."
Funded by the Citigroup Foundation and jointly organized by Citibank and HKU, this unprecedented structured banking course was first offered in the previous academic year targeting business and economic students of HKU. 
Citigroup's University Banking Course was first conducted in Taiwan in 1998 at the National Taiwan University.Citigroup now conducts similar banking courses in several other countries in the Asia Pacific region including mainland China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, and Singapore.The program aims to teach students in higher education the fundamentals of finance and banking, as well as help develop future leaders who are better equipped to understand complex financial issues.
### 
Citigroup
Citigroup (NYSE: C), the preeminent global financial services company has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, insurance, securities brokerage, and asset management.Major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Banamex, and Travelers Life and Annuity. Additional information may be found at http://www.citigroup.com
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
HKU's history and rich traditions complement a tremendous wealth of resources. It is one of the great centers of learning in Asia and attracts eminent scholars in every field. The Faculty of Business &amp; Economics prides itself on its tradition of academic excellence and innovation. Its organization with two schools - School of Business and School of Economics and Finance - combines the faculty and resources of a major research institution and the intimacy and personal attention of the integrated learning environment of a smaller school. 
The factors that most distinguish the University from other schools are its rich learning environment, the excellence and diversity of its faculty and students, the passion of its alumni for the faculty and what it stands for, and the breadth of its vision of leadership.
For further information, please contact: 
Upon Communications Ltd.
Ms. Anita Tam2877 8776 / 9280 8397anita@upon.com.hk
Ms. Maggie Poon2877 8776 / 9308 5358maggie@upon.com.hk
Citibank 
Ms. Kathy Cheung2962 8570kathy.hm.cheung@citigroup.com
Mr. Wayne Fong2962 7546wayne.w.fong@citigroup.com
The University of Hong Kong
Ms. Mandy Chan2857 8215mandychan@fbe.hku.hk
Ms. Elsie Leung2589 2600ecwleung@hku.hk
Photo Captions:
Picture 1:
4 outstanding students (from left to right): Lucy Sun, Dickson Man, Corina Ho and Fiona Kwok with Mr. Atul Malik - Country Business Manager, Citibank Global Consumer Group, and Professor Y.C. Richard Wong, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, HKU
Picture 2:
Group Photo
Picture 3:
Professor Y.C. Richard Wong delivered a welcoming speech at the Graduation Ceremony
Picture 4:
(from left to right):Mr. Atul Malik, Alda Tsang - One of the graduates and MC of the Ceremony and Professor Y.C. Richard Wong
Picture 5:
Thank you card to Citibank
Picture 6:
Outstanding students &amp; Thank you Card 
(from left to right):Dickson Man, Corina Ho, Fiona Kwok and Lucy Sun
Picture 7:
Professor Y.C. Richard Wong at the Graduation Ceremony

 


Picture 1
 
Picture 2

Picture 3
 
Picture 4

Picture 5
 
Picture 6

Picture 7
 
 
 
 
