[title]HKU Journalism graduate awarded HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholar 
to study public policy at Oxford University[/title]
[date]10 Sep 2013[/date]
 
James Chan, who is graduating with first class honors from the Journalism and Media Studies Centre’s Bachelor of Journalism programme this year, has won a prestigious scholarship to Oxford University to study public policy in September.
The HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarship, funded by Walter Kwok Foundation, is awarded to outstanding Chinese students from Hong Kong applying to Oxford's Master of Public Policy programme. The scholarship aims to reward university graduates who demonstrate exceptional academic merit. It provides a sum of about HK$590,000 to cover all tuition and college fees along with living expenses in England.
Dr Walter Kwok was delighted to learn that James has been awarded Kwok Scholar and wished him all the success in his studies. He said: “Oxford University is a world top university and has been the intellectual cradle of many Prime Ministers, outstanding politicians and high-ranking government officials in Britain. May I wish James every success and when he returns to Hong Kong, use what he has learned to contribute to the country and community.”
Professor Ying Chan, the founding director of the Journalism and Media Studies Centre, said James's experience is typical of what the centre’s students find, while James himself has been an exceptional student. Professor Chan said: "Many of our BJs are graduating with CVs dotted with five or even six internships and overseas experiences. James has taken advantage of all the opportunities that are available to him, and excelled."
James Chan credited the JMSC's internship programme for giving him first-rate professional work experience, which has led to employment at prominent media organizations and an awareness of international issues.






"I am indebted to the JMSC for challenging me ... and equipping me with a critical mind," he said. "The school also provided me with ample eye-opening experiences: a reporting trip to Japan covering the first anniversary of 3/11 Tohoku Japan earthquake for CNN and Agence France-Presse, another trip to Beijing covering the once-a-decade leadership changes in the National People’s Congress of China, and a semester exchange programme in Denmark, a country with one of the freest media and best journalism educations in the world."
James pursued a dual major in Journalism and Politics and Public Administration at HKU, and was awarded multiple scholarships during his studies including a Sir Man Kam Lo/Jardine Scholarship, an HKU Worldwide Undergraduate Student Exchange Scholarship, HKSAR Government Scholarship Fund's Reaching Out Award, and a University Research Internship Award to conduct research for the JMSC's Open Government Project. He was also awarded the HKU Class of 84 Social Inclusion Fund in 2012, along with Vicky Kung (BJ, 2013) and three other university students, to found We Care, a non-profit making organization that serves underprivileged domestic helpers in Hong Kong.
James further said he applied for the Oxford scholarship because the programme trains students to be leaders in the public sector. "I believe in the power of public policy to produce concrete policies to solve problems, instead of making confrontations between political parties," he said.
He is currently working part-time as a studio technician for CNN International and as a reporter for RTHK. His Bachelor of Journalism degree from HKU will be officially conferred in the autumn.
About HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarships
The HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarships, funded by Walter Kwok Foundation, will provide full funding for two Chinese students from Hong Kong each year to undertake the new 1-year Master of Public Policy programme at Oxford's Blavatnik School of Government.  The scholarships will cover tuition and living expenses.
About Walter Kwok Foundation
The Walter Kwok Foundation was founded by Dr. Walter Kwok in April 2011 and has received approval from the Inland Revenue Department as a charitable institution.  The objectives of the Foundation includes to help the poor and the underprivileged, to provide scholarships and maintenance grants for students for the advancement of education, research and development, protection of environment and wildlife and promotion of Chinese art, culture and historical heritage.  Since its inception, the Foundation has made donations to two charities in Hong Kong namely Ashoka which helps the visually handicapped and Foodlink Foundation which helps the undernourished.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
