[title]HKU to present Honorary University Fellowships to six distinguished individuals[/title]
[date]13 Aug 2015[/date]
 
The Pro-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) Dr David Li Kwok Po will confer Honorary University Fellowships upon six distinguished individuals at a ceremony on September 15, 2015 (Tuesday).
Honorary University Fellowships are conferred to individuals in recognition of their contributions to the University and society. The six distinguished individuals to be conferred at the Presentation Ceremony are:
1. Mr Edward CHAN King Sang, SC 
2. Dr Aron HARILELA
3. Ms Pansy HO Chiu King
4. Dr Donald LI Kwok Tung
5. Dr Jimmy TANG Kui Ming
6. Mr TSE Sik Yan
Details of the Honorary University Fellowship Presentation Ceremony:
Date:  September 15, 2015 (Tuesday)
Time:  5:30pm
Venue:  Rayson Huang Theatre, University Main Campus
Biographies of the recipients:

 Mr Edward CHAN King Sang, SC 
Mr Edward CHAN King Sang, SC
Mr Edward Chan King Sang, SC holds an LLB from the University of Hong Kong, a member of the first cohort of locally trained law graduates of 1972. He holds an LLM from the University of London and was called to the English Bar in 1974 and the Hong Kong Bar in 1975. He was appointed Queen’s Counsel (now Senior Counsel) in 1989, the first HKU law graduate to be so honoured.
Mr Chan has maintained a very active practice at the top echelons of the Bar and has served as Deputy High Court Judge (1991), as High Court Recorder for over a decade (1995-2006) and as the Chairman of the Hong Kong Bar Association (2003-2005). He has served on numerous public bodies and committees including, inter alia, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Town Planning Appeal Board Panel and the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority. He has been the Chairman of the Special Committee on Legal Education of the Hong Kong Bar Association since 2001.  He is currently a Member of the Standing Committee on Legal Education and Training, and a Convenor of the Barristers Disciplinary Tribunal Panel.
At the University of Hong Kong, Mr Chan has been a staunch supporter of the Faculty of Law and is a Member of the Faculty Board and of the PCLL Academic Board. Always endeavouring to help improve legal education in Hong Kong, he also serves on PCLL Academic Boards of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the City University of Hong Kong and is also a member of the Faculty Board of the Law Faculty at the City University of Hong Kong. Mr Chan was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2004. 


Dr Aron HARILELA
Dr Aron HARILELA
Dr Aron Harilela is the Chairman &amp; CEO of Harilela Hotels Limited, head of acquisitions for the Harilela Group, and the non-executive Chairman of Burson Marsteller in Hong Kong. He holds a Bachelor’s degree (Honours) in Law and Politics, and a PhD in Political Philosophy, both from the University of Hull, UK, and has written and published several articles on contemporary social political thought.
Dr Harilela served as a member of HKU’s Court (2006-2011) and is an Honorary Patron of the HKU Foundation. The support he and his family have given HKU spans the generations and most recently includes the establishment of an Endowed Professorship in Strategic Information Management in 2014. Other institutions of higher education that have had the benefit of Dr Harilela’s support and counsel include the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, where he is a Court Member, and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, from which he was conferred an Honorary University Fellowship in 2012. He is also an Honorary Life Vice President of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Foundation.
Dr Harilela is the Vice-Chairman of the General Committee of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and was appointed as an Investment Promotion Ambassador for InvestHK in 2011. He is a Board Member of the Hong Kong Community Chest and an Honorary Secretary for the Business and Professional Federation. He is a Voting Member of the Hong Kong Jockey Club and heads the award-winning Harilela polo team. Dr Harilela was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2014.


Ms Pansy HO Chiu King
Ms Pansy HO Chiu King
Ms Pansy Ho Chiu King is the Managing Director of Shun Tak Holdings Limited, a conglomerate listed in Hong Kong with core businesses in property, transportation, hospitality and investments. She also holds other key executive roles, including Co-chairperson and Executive Director of MGM China Holdings Limited.
Ms Ho holds a Bachelor’s degree in Marketing and International Business Management from Santa Clara University, and an Honorary Doctorate Degree in Business Administration from Johnson and Wales University.
A strong believer in the power of exchange and cooperation, Ms Ho has dedicated her time and effort over the years to the promotion of tourism economy, the empowerment of women and youth, and enrichment of life experience through art and culture across Hong Kong, Macau and Mainland China. Ms Ho advocates helping women and youth gain socio-economic independence through education and training. Through her personal contributions and strategic alliances with non-profit organizations, a number of training and community programs have been created in community centers in Hong Kong, China, Cambodia and Vietnam.  Ms Ho has served as a Founding Honorary Advisor and Board Director of the HKU Foundation since 1996.
Ms Ho was a patron to the “Sandro Botticelli’s Venus” exhibition, which – in collaboration with the Consulate General of Italy in Hong Kong and Macau, the Italian Cultural Institute, and the HKU Museum and Art Gallery – brought the painting to Hong Kong for the first time in 2013. The exhibition offered to students, teachers, museum visitors and the general public not only a rare viewing, learning and teaching opportunity of a Renaissance masterpiece, but also a heightened awareness of how art and culture can transcend time, distance and differences. Ms Ho was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2015.


Dr Donald LI Kwok Tung
Dr Donald LI Kwok Tung
Dr Donald Li Kwok Tung is a specialist in Family Medicine in private practice in Hong Kong and the President of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine. He holds a BA from Cornell University, USA, and an MBBS from the University of Hong Kong.
Dr Li is the Honorary Treasurer and member at large of the World Organization of Family Doctors (WONCA) World Executive Council and Censor of the Hong Kong College of Family Physicians. He is also Chairman of the governing committee of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Disaster Preparedness and Response Institute (HKJC DPRI) of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine.
Dr Li has served HKU as an Honorary Professor of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, Honorary Treasurer of the HKU Medical Alumni Association and Senior Member of the HKU Foundation. He has lent his experience and expertise to the University’s students too by being a Mentor in the HKU Mentorship Program (1998-2007). He is a Fellow of the Hong Kong College of Family Physicians, Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of Medicine, Honorary Fellow of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health, Fellow of the American College of Physicians, Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of General Practitioners, Honorary Fellow of the Hong Kong College of Dental Surgeons.
Dr Li is an active member of many governmental and public health bodies, both in Hong Kong and on the Mainland, and also dedicates much of his professional time to academia and teaching. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2006 and awarded a Silver Bauhinia Star in 2011.


Dr Jimmy TANG Kui Ming 
Dr Jimmy TANG Kui Ming
Dr Jimmy Tang Kui Ming is the Founder, Chairman and CEO of the Prince Jewellery and Watch Company.
Dr Tang has long been an advocate for the higher education sector, and over the years has lent his support and counsel to the University of Hong Kong in many ways. These include, inter alia, helping to keep the HKU spirit alive in our graduates through a variety of alumni reunions and fundraising events, lending his leadership and service as an Honorary President of the HKU Foundation, and establishing the Jimmy and Emily Tang Professorship in Molecular Genetics in 2014 to promote and support the study and application of genomic and regenerative medicine.
In 2006, Dr Tang was presented with the World Outstanding Chinese Award by the World Chinese Business Investment Foundation, conferred an Honorary Doctorate from Armstrong University that same year, and conferred an Honorary Fellowship from the Professional Validation Centre of Hong Kong Business Sector in 2010. He was invited to be a member of the Court of New Asia College of the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 2011, and was conferred an Honorary University Fellowship by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University in 2013. Dr Tang was named the EY Entrepreneur of the Year in the 2013 China Awards in the Category of Consumer Products and “CAPITAL Leaders of Excellence 2013”, and presented with the “Owner-Operator Award” in the DHL/SCMP Hong Kong Business Awards in 2014, for his personal achievements and contributions to society. Dr Tang was awarded the Medal of Honour by the HKSAR Government in 2010, and appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2015.


 Mr TSE Sik Yan
Mr TSE Sik Yan
Mr Tse Sik Yan is an eminent Hong Kong educator. He holds a BSc in Botany and Zoology, a Postgraduate Diploma in Education, an Advanced Diploma in Education and a Master of Education in Testing, Measurement and Evaluation, all from the University of Hong Kong. He also holds an MPhil in Educational Research from Cambridge University, and an MA in Science Education from the University of London.
Mr Tse has a life-long commitment to teaching, curriculum development and public examinations. He has served as Head of Biology at Queen’s College, Assistant Principal of Shau Kei Wan Government Secondary School, Principal of the Practical Education Centre and Principal of the Sir Ellis Kadoorie Secondary School (West Kowloon).  He was the Chairman of the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Biology Subject Committee, Chairman of the Curriculum Guide for the Hong Kong Advanced / Supplementary Level Biology Syllabus, Chief Examiner of the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Biology Examination and Chief Examiner of the London GCE Advanced Level Practical Biology Examination.
Mr Tse is the Honorary President of the HKU Foundation and President of the HKU Alumni Association.  He has served as Deputy Chairman of the HKU Convocation Standing Committee, a Member of the HKU Convocation Standing Committee and of Court, and Treasurer and Committee Member of HKU Education Alumni Association. He has been a Mentor of the HKU Mentorship Programme. He founded the TSE Family HKU-Cambridge Hughes Hall Scholarship in 2013 to support HKU students pursuing postgraduate studies at Cambridge. Mr Tse is a Fellow of Royal Society of Biology and a Chartered Biologist (London).  He is the current Chairman of the Hong Kong Sino-British Fellowship Trust Scholars’ Association and Honorary Secretary of the Hong Kong Sino-British Fellowship Trust Scholars’ Foundation. He is the Founding Chairman of the Hong Kong Society of Biology and of the Hong Kong Outstanding Teachers Association.

HKU Honorary University Fellowships website: http://www4.hku.hk/honfellows/ .
For media enquiries, please contact HKU Communications and Public Affairs Office:
Ms Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media), Tel: 2859 2600 / Email: melwkwan@hku.hk); or
Ms Rhea Leung, Manager (Media), Tel：2857 8555 / email：rhea.leung@hku.hk).
