[title]Six distinguished HKU scholars receive Croucher Innovation and Senior Research Fellowship Awards[/title]
[date]14 Apr 2015[/date]
 

(from left) Dr Shizhong ZHANG, Professor Zhongjun ZHOU, Dr Stephanie Kwai-Yee MA, Dr Benjamin John COWLING (HKU), Professor Patrick C Y WOO, Professor Ui Soon KHOO

Six scholars from the University of Hong Kong received the Croucher Awards this year. They are:
Croucher Innovation Award 2014
Dr Stephanie Kwai-Yee MA (HKU)
Assistant Professor, Department of Anatomy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Croucher Innovation Award 2015
Dr Shizhong ZHANG (Joint Award) (HKU)
Assistant Professor, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science
Croucher Senior Research Fellowships 2015
Dr Benjamin John COWLING (HKU)
Associate Professor, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Professor Zhongjun ZHOU (HKU)
Professor, Department of Biochemistry, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowships 2015
Professor Ui Soon KHOO (HKU)
Clinical Professor, Department of Pathology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Professor Patrick C Y WOO (HKU)
Head and Clinical Professor, Department of Microbiology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine


Dr Stephanie Kwai-Yee MA and
Financial Secretary Mr John Tsang

Dr Zhang Shzhong (middle), Dr Kam-Tuen LAW (HKUST) and Financial Secretary Mr John Tsang


Dr Benjamin John COWLING 
and Mr John Tsang.

Professor Ui Soon KHOO and Mr John Tsang


Professor Patrick C Y WOO and
Mr John Tsang

Professor Zhongjun ZHOU and Mr John Tsang


The Croucher Innovation Awards
Established in 2012, the Croucher Innovation Awards aim to identify a small number of exceptionally talented scientists working at an internationally competitive level and to offer substantial support to these “rising stars” at a formative stage in their careers. The scheme is designed to enable recipients to pursue their own scientific, intellectual and professional inclinations, to advance their expertise, to engage in bold new work, and to contribute to the development of education and research in Hong Kong. Each award carries a value of up to HK$5 million over 5 years. For a shared award, the amount is HKD2.5 plus an allowance for collaborative research of HKD1.8 million.
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships/ Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowships
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997. The value of the awards are about HKD900,000 for the Senior Research Fellowship and HKD1,000,000 for the Senior Medical Research Fellowship, each includes a personal grant of HK$60,000 to the recipient for research expenses.  It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work as judged by leading international scientists invited to provide confidential reviews of candidates nominated in a competitive exercise. Funds are awarded to the universities of the fellowship recipients, enabling the university to recruit replacement teachers to take over the award winner’s duties for the period of the fellowship.  This enables the awardees to devote more time and effort to research work.
Media enquiries:
The University of Hong Kong
Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media)
Tel: (852) 2859 2600,  Email: melwkwan@hku.hk
The University of Hong Kong, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Grace Ng, Assistant Manager (External Relations)
Tel:3917 9995/9107 1676, Email:gracesk@hku.hk
