[title]HKU to establish two more State Key Laboratories of Liver Diseases and Synthetic Chemistry[/title]
[date]21 Jun 2010[/date]
 
The Ministry of Science and Technology of the Central Government has approved the application from the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to establish a State Key Laboratory of Liver Diseases at HKU and a State Key Laboratory of Synthetic Chemistry in collaboration with the Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
The decision was made by the Ministry in recognition of HKU's excellence in research in the two areas, attributing to its outstanding research team and advanced laboratory facilities. The University has also established long-term partnership and cooperative relations with institutions on the Mainland. The move will signify a major step in the collaboration between Hong Kong and the Mainland to undertake frontier research to the benefit of the country's technological advancement. 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui expressed delight at the decision of the Ministry. He believes the setting up of the two SKLs will provide good opportunities for HKU to closer its collaboration with the Mainland in academic and technological exchanges. "The University will do its best to contribute to the technological advancement of the country," he said. 
The two new SKLs will add to the HKU SKL of Brain and Cognitive Sciences and the SKL of Emerging Infectious Diseases established in 2005 at the University, which were then the first and only SKLs in their respective fields located outside of the Mainland. 
The HKU SKL of Liver Diseases will undertake frontier basic research on the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of liver diseases developed from Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The sequelae of chronic HBV infection, such as hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, are major causes of death in Hong Kong and the Mainland. The SKL will be led by Professor Irene Ng Oi Lin, Loke Yew Professor in Pathology, HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine. It will partner with the SKL of Oncogenes &amp; Related Genes of Shanghai Cancer Institute while operating independently on its own. 
The main objectives of the SKL of Synthetic Chemistry are two folds. The first is to create or identify novel chemical entities that are either of fundamental interest with regard to structure and bonding, and/or with unique properties that have useful applications; the second is to devise/develop new methods that should be environmentally friendly, for the synthesis of chemical entities of importance to the society. The SKL will be directed by Professor Che Chi-ming, HKU Dr. Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry. Professor Henry N.C.Wong, Professor of Chemistry of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, will act as Deputy Director. The SKL will partner with the SKL of Organometallic Chemistry of the Shanghai Institute of Organic Chemistry. 
SKLs are regarded as key components of China's science and technology research system. They serve as the base for top-level basic research and applied basic research development, assembling and nurturing outstanding researchers, as well as scholarly exchanges for the country. 

