[title]HKU Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Microbiology decorated as Knights of the Légion d'Honneur of France[/title]
[date]15 Oct 2007[/date]
 


Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), and Professor Malik Peiris, Professor of Microbiology, also the Scientific Director of the HKU-Pasteur Research Centre, were decorated as Knights of the Légion d'Honneur of France, today (October 15, 2007).
The Légion d'Honneur, created in l802 by Napoleon Bonaparte, is the highest decoration given by the French Republic to distinguished individuals for their outstanding services, regardless of the social status or the nationality of the recipients.
"The award is a great honour for both Professor Peiris and myself, as well as the HKU family.  It signifies the French Government's recognition of the contributions of the University. We will certainly further enhance our collaboration and exchanges with our French counterparts in research and education programmes," said Professor Tsui.
Professor Peiris said: "It is a great privilege to be awarded the honour and it is very pleasing that our efforts are recognized in this way. Research is a team-enterprise and this honor really goes to a whole team of people within HKU, the HKU-Pasteur Research Centre as well as other organisations in Hong Kong who have contributed to these collaborative efforts."
Both professors received the award from the Grand Chancellor of the Légion d'Honneur and Chancellor of the National Order of Merit, General Jean-Pierre Kelche.
General Kelche visited the HKU-Pasteur Research Centre and met researchers and students who have benefitted from the exchanges supported by The Légion d'Honneur Club Hong Kong Chapter.
Established in 1999, the Centre builds upon the synergy between HKU and the Institut Pasteur, a French foundation which has been at the forefront of research on infectious diseases since 1887.  The Centre has been focusing on research on viruses (such as SARS and avian flu) that pose a threat to public health in Hong Kong, the Mainland and the Asian region, as well as training outstanding Asian students in the field. 
Dr James Kung, Chairman of the Board of the Centre, was also decorated the Grand Officer of the Légion d'Honneur today.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Denise Wong, Manager (Media), External Relations Office, HKU ( Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk ).
Photo captions:
Picture 1 &amp; 2:
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of HKU, was decorated as Knight of the Légion d'Honneur of France by General Jean-Pierre Kelche, Grand Chancellor of the Légion d'Honneur and Chancellor of the National Order of Merit, France.
Picture 3:
Professor Malik Peiris, Professor of Microbiology of HKU, was decorated as Knight of the Légion d'Honneur of France.
Picture 4:
General Jean-Pierre Kelche, Grand Chancellor of the Légion d'Honneur and Chancellor of the National Order of Merit, France, visited HKU. (From left are):-
Mr Henry Wai, Registrar, HKU
Professor Malik Peiris, Professor of Microbiology, HKU
General Jean-Pierre Kelche
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President, HKU
Mr Philip Lam, Director of Finance, HKU
Ms Katherine Ma, Director of Communications, HKU 



 
Picture 1
 
Picture 2

 
Picture 3
 
Picture 4



