[title]HKU holds the Seventh Inauguration of Endowed Professorships[/title]
[date]19 Apr 2013[/date]
 
 The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held its Seventh Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 19) to present seven new Endowed Professors and one successive appointment. Endowed Professorships are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.  It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon the University’s distinguished academics.  With a close partnership between academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which is matched by the University with an equal amount.  The interest generated from the $20 million endowment is used to support the respective area of academic excellence. Since 2005, a total of 72 Endowed Professorships (including 3 Distinguished Visiting Professorships) have been established.An Advisory Committee has been set up to ensure the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. Members of the Committee include Dr Raymond K F Ch'ien (Chairman), Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Ms Mary Ma.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office on 2241-5677 or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) on 2859 2606 (email: pychoy@hku.hk), Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU.
For more information and photos, please visit the Endowed Professorships Scheme website at http://www.hku.hk/ephku/ 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held its Seventh Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 19) to present seven new Endowed Professors and one successive appointment. 
Endowed Professorships are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.  It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon the University’s distinguished academics.  With a close partnership between academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which is matched by the University with an equal amount.  The interest generated from the $20 million endowment is used to support the respective area of academic excellence. Since 2005, a total of 72 Endowed Professorships (including 3 Distinguished Visiting Professorships) have been established.
An Advisory Committee has been set up to ensure the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. Members of the Committee include Dr Raymond K F Ch'ien (Chairman), Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Ms Mary Ma.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office on 2241-5677 or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk  .
For more information and photos, please visit the Endowed Professorships Scheme website at http://www.hku.hk/ephku/
 

Ed X Wu, Lam Woo Professor in Biomedical Engineering and Dr Samuel Lam 

David P Y Lung, Lady Edith Kotewall Professor in the Built Environment with Mrs Jill Gallie and Mrs Helen Liang


Professor Vivian Taam Wong established an endowed professorship in Integrative Medicine

William W Lu, Ng Chun-Man Professor in Orthopaedic Bioengineering


Godfrey C F Chan, Tsao Yen-Chow Professor in Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine and Dr Tsao Yen-Chow

Lau Chak-Sing, Daniel C K Yu Professor in Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology and Mr Daniel C K Yu


Chan See-Ching, Li Shu Fan Medical Foundation Professor in Surgery and Dr Walton Li

Paul K H Tam, Li Shu-Pui Professor in Surgery and Dr Walton Li.



