[title]The University of Hong Kong – Citibank University Banking Course 2006 – 2007 Graduation Ceremony[/title]
[date]14 May 2007[/date]
 
Citibank Announces Outstanding Achievement Award Winners 
(Hong Kong) Citibank and the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today announced the successful completion of "The University of Hong Kong – Citibank University Banking Course 2006-2007". At the Graduation Ceremony, four students with distinguished performances were awarded the "Outstanding Achievement Awards". They were offered a study trip to New York to visit Citi's headquarters among other places. 
Following the overwhelming response to the program over the past two years, this unprecedented structured banking course (funded by the Citi Foundation and jointly organized by Citibank and HKU) was offered for the third year as an annual course for business and economics students of HKU. 
At the graduation ceremony, Mr. Atul Malik, Country Business Manager, Citibank Global Consumer Group, said, "In view of the needs and interests of students in acquiring practical knowledge of the banking Industry, for three consecutive years, we have offered this practical banking course for business and economics students in The University of Hong Kong. Through this initiative, we hope the students have gained a solid understanding of personal finance. The goal is to help them become financially responsible individuals." 
During this four-month program, the fifty students selected from the Faculty of Business and Economics of HKU received 13 classroom lectures from senior Citibankers, covering the whole retail banking spectrum, and a site visit to the Citibank branch office. 
Four students were selected and awarded the "Outstanding Achievement Award", based on their attendance, class participation, results from the mid-term test and the score they received in their final group project. They are (in alphabetical order): 
- Mr. Fung Ka Kei, Lester 
- Mr. Lau Ho Kwan 
- Mr. Wong Ming Chi 
- Ms. Wong Tsz Yan 
The four outstanding students were awarded a study trip to New York where they will visit Citi's headquarters and meet with local university students. In addition, students who participated actively in lectures will be given an interview opportunity for internship at Citibank Hong Kong this summer. 
Prof Y.C. Richard Wong, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of HKU and Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, said, "It was a pleasure to co-organize this comprehensive and practical banking course with strong support from Citibank. I'm pleased to see our students have clearly demonstrated a commitment to education and learning by completing the requirements for graduation. They have gained valuable knowledge and experience as the program provides insights on the world of banking. I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all the Citibankers for their time and effort in delivering this course. We look forward to a continuous partnership with Citibank". 
The Banking Course was launched in Taiwan in 1998 at the National Taiwan University. Citigroup now conducts similar banking courses in several other countries in the Asia Pacific region including mainland China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, and Singapore. The program aims to teach students in higher education the fundamentals of finance and banking, as well as help develop future leaders who are better equipped to understand complex financial issues. 
### 
About Citi 
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Citi's major brand names include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Citi Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com. 
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong 
HKU's history and rich traditions complement a tremendous wealth of resources. It is one of the great centers of learning in Asia and attracts eminent scholars in every field. The Faculty of Business &amp; Economics prides itself on its tradition of academic excellence and innovation. Its organization with two schools - School of Business and School of Economics and Finance - combines the faculty and resources of a major research institution and the intimacy and personal attention of the integrated learning environment of a smaller school. 
The factors that most distinguish the University from other schools are its rich learning environment, the excellence and diversity of its faculty and students, the passion of its alumni for the faculty and what it stands for, and the breadth of its vision of leadership. 

