[title]Professor of Higher Education at Boston College to deliver public lectures at HKU[/title]
[date]03 Dec 2003[/date]
 
Professor Philip G Altbach from the Lynch School of Education at Boston College is to deliver two public lectures on higher education on December 12 and 18 at the University of Hong Kong (HKU).Members of the Press and of the public are cordially invited to attend.
About the lectures:
1.The Challenges of Creating World Class Universities in Asia
Date:December 12, 2003 (Friday)
Time: 5:00-6:30p.m. 
Venue:Rayson Huang Theatre, The University of Hong Kong
There is much discussion in Asia concerning the creation of world class universities and the need to create such institutions in key Asian countries. Defining a world class institution is not easy—does it mean a good quality research university in the 21st century American tradition?Does it mean one of the top half-dozen universities in the world recognized by peer institutions? Asian countries need to think carefully about the purpose of their top academic institutions in terms of national development and involvement in the global knowledge network. World class is a more elusive and problematical concept that it might at first glance seem.
2.The Globalization of Higher Education
Date:December 18, 2003 (Thursday)
Time: 5:00-6:30p.m. 
Venue:Meng Wah Theatre 2, The University of Hong Kong
Universities increasingly function in a global environment. Globalization has many implications for higher education and this discussion focuses on understanding the nuances for academe, with a special emphasis on the Asian context. Among the elements of globalization discussed are the historical tradition of universities worldwide, the role of English as the international language of science, the emergence of a world market for students and faculty, global trends in the curriculum, and the emergence of multinational academic institutions in the context of marketization.
About the speaker:
Philip G. Altbach is Monan Professor of Higher Education and Director of the Center for International Higher Education in the Lynch School of Education at Boston College.He has been a senior associate of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and serves as editor of the Review of Higher Education and as an editor of Educational Policy.He is a Guest Professor at the Institute of Higher Education at Peking University, and has been a visiting professor at Stanford University and at the University of Bombay in India.Professor Altbach has been a Fulbright scholar in India, and in Malaysia and Singapore.He has had awards from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science and the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), and has been Onwell Fellow at the University of Hong Kong. He is listed in Who's Who in America and other major biographical volumes. 
Professor Altbach has published widely on higher education, comparative education, and on publishing and knowledge distribution. His books have been translated into German, Japanese, Chinese, Indonesian, Turkish, and Spanish.
Enquiries:
For enquiries, please contact the Office of Research, Faculty of Education, the University of Hong Kong at tel. 2859 2781, fax. 2547 1924 or e-mail: syslau@hkusua.hku.hk.
 
