[title]Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu[/title]
[date]24 Oct 2008[/date]
 
 Proudly presented by The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
Organised by The University of Hong Kong 
Featuring 
Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu 
Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe 
Hong Kong, October 24, 2008 - Kunqu is the essence of traditional Chinese performing arts: an artistic blend of poetry, painting, music, singing, dance, and drama. Its achievements in the realms of literature, drama, music and fine art have nurtured every Chinese opera form, earning Kunqu the accolade of "the mother of a hundred opera forms". In 2001, Kunqu was recognised by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation) as one of the inaugural "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity", the highest honour bestowed upon Kunqu.
To carry on the heritage of Kunqu is a meaningful undertaking. In view of this, the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation and The University of Hong Kong collaborate for the first time to invite the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe and the Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu to perform in Hong Kong. The aim is to foster an understanding and appreciation of Kunqu by the younger generations.
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu is an unprecedented large-scale Kunqu promotion programme in Hong Kong. A series of six demonstration talks on different themes will be conducted at respective tertiary institutions from the 4th to 15th November 2008, while six performances will be staged at the Jockey Club Auditorium of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University from the 18th to 23rd November 2008 to showcase a variety of Kunqu repertoires. Mobilising over a hundred members from the troupes, including eminent artists and reputable masters, this programme leads young people and the public into the world of Kunqu.
"Exquisite Beauty" best describes the art of Kunqu - its refined language, elegant movements, and regard for tunes and voices. Calling himself a "Kunqu enthusiast", Professor Hsien-Yung Pai has been deeply attracted to this oldest form of existing Chinese opera since his youth. In recent years, he has been actively involved in revitalising this art form, leading to his accepting the invitation as the honorary chairman of the "Research and Development Project on Kunqu" at The University of Hong Kong in October 2007.
The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Supports the Revitalisation of Kunqu
Professor Pai's unfailing commitment to introduce the art of Kunqu to young people coincides with the mission of the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation, which is to revitalise traditional Chinese arts and promote art education. Since 2006, the Foundation has sponsored performance and lecture tours of the Peony Pavilion, one of the greatest classics of Kun Opera, modernised and adapted by Professor Pai. Performances and lectures have been given at universities throughout China, and have generated significant public, academic and media interest. The upcoming programme in Hong Kong is a continuation of the Foundation's support for the revitalisation of Kunqu.
Mr Robert Hung-Ngai Ho, the Foundation's Chairman said, "Following the success of The Peony Pavilion in arousing enthusiasm for Kunqu from the young generation in China and abroad, Professor Pai proceeds to broaden the audience's world of Kunqu. We support Professor Pai's idea of bringing Kunqu to universities and schools, and proactively reaching out to the public. The passing on and development of Kunqu relies on the size and sophistication of its audience. If The Peony Pavilion is the foundation, we hope that through the eleven repertoires in Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu, the audience will gain a deeper level of appreciation of the beauty of Kunqu."
The University of Hong Kong Supports Kunqu Research and Heritage
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of The University of Hong Kong, remarked, "The University of Hong Kong is fully committed to promoting cultural exchange between China and the world. As an internationally renowned university, we are committed to advancing Chinese traditional culture to ascend to the world stage. To carry on the heritage of Kunqu is a meaningful undertaking and we are honoured to have Professor Hsien-Yung Pai's leadership in this project. We hope to facilitate the promotion of this traditional Chinese art form to the world through academic research, collecting of related archives, and educational programmes."
Kunqu Masters lead us into the World of Kunqu
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu features the internationally acclaimed the Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu and the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe Young people and the public of Hong Kong will enjoy free admission to a variety of classic repertoires, including The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》, Defeat on the Huarong Pass《華容道》, The Western Chamber《西廂記》, Farewell to the Mother: from The Iron Crown《鐵冠圖‧别母》, At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》, The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》, Winning the Beauty Queen《占花魁》, The Ghost King Marries Off His Sister《鍾馗嫁妹》, Gazing toward the Homeland《望鄉》, Escape of the Little Monk《下山》and Conquest of Demons《請神降妖》.
To deepen understanding of the exquisite beauty of Kunqu by young people and the public, The University of Hong Kong is partnering with various tertiary institutions, including the City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Baptist University and Lingnan University to organise six demonstration talks on a wide range of themes, including The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》, The Story of the Beauty Queen《花魁記》, At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》, The Western Chamber《西廂記》and The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》. The talks will be hosted by Professor Hsien-Yung Pai, Xing Yiyun 幸意雲, Dr. Si Tou Sau-ieng 司徒秀英，Gu Zhaoshen古兆申, and various prominent Kunqu artists, directors and experts will be guest speakers. They are Yue Meiti 岳美緹, Weng Guosheng翁國生, Zhang Jiqing張繼青, Yao Jikun姚繼焜, Wang Shiyu 汪世瑜, Liang Guyin梁谷音, Cai Zhengren蔡正仁, Zhang Jingxian 張靜嫻, Zheng Peikai鄭培凱, Professor Hua Wei華瑋教授and Zhang Lizhen張麗真.
About The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
With deep roots in Chinese culture, the Robert H. N. Ho Foundation was founded in 2005 with a mission to foster and support Chinese arts and culture, in particular cross-cultural understanding between China and the world.
Since its inauguration, the Foundation has taken an active role in supporting numerous arts and cultural programs internationally. In 2007, it supported Britain Meets the World: 1714-1830, an international partnership between the British Museum and the Palace Museum in Beijing. In early 2008, the Foundation partnered with the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York to present Cai Guo Qiang: I Want to Believe, realising the museum's first-ever solo retrospective of a contemporary Chinese artist. In June 2008, the Foundation sponsored the exhibition Power &amp; Glory: Court Arts of China's Ming Dynasty, the first-ever cooperative effort between the Asian Art Museum, the Palace Museum, Beijing, the Shanghai Museum and the Nanjing Municipal Museum. The exhibition features over 240 artifacts, bringing to life not only the artistic achievements of the Ming Dynasty, but also dialogues between museums in China and the US.
In its home base, the Foundation develops arts education programmes and other initiatives that fulfil the cultural needs of Hong Kong society. It designs and operates Through Our Eyes, a creative arts programme that brings a fresh approach to the arts to young people.  Through Our Eyes focuses on helping young people find and express their authentic voices through photography and creative writing. It is currently an extra-curricular programme in schools and has served more than 1,000 students from 200 schools in southern China and Hong Kong.  Students explore issues of identity, family, community, cultural heritage and the environment. Students are also provided opportunities to interact with international artists visiting Hong Kong through the Foundation's effort in crossing-over with other local arts events.
Convinced that Buddhist philosophy can create an important path for personal and societal transformation, the Foundation supports programmes that provide a variety of views and tools to apply Buddhist insights to everyday life. It also supports programmes that explore the relationship between Buddhist philosophy and the arts - it collaborates with the Honolulu Academy of Arts in a multi-year project that aims to preserve, document and present the living Vajrayana Buddhist culture of Bhutan. The exhibition, The Dragon's Gift: The Sacred Arts of Bhutan, began in early 2008 and will tour until 2010, embracing such destinations as the Rubin Museum in New York, the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco, the Museum of East Asian Art, and the Museum Rietberg Zürich. The project will continue to provide conservation training for Bhutanese monks, create a video archive for Cham ritual dance, and develop a database on Bhutanese arts in museum collections worldwide. The Foundation hopes to inspire other efforts to preserve and revitalise traditional arts and culture. 
To learn more about the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation, please visit its official website at http://www.rhfamilyfoundation.org/
- The End -
Co-released by the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation and The University of Hong Kong.  For media enquiries, please contact:
Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office, The University of Hong Kong
Gladys Wong
Tel: +852 9238 3158
Email: hkukunqu@hku.hk
The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
Janet Tong
Tel: +852 2232 0001
Email: jtong@rhfamilyfoundation.org
Linkwork - PR agency of The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
Avis Cheng
Tel: +852 2530 0388
Email: avis.cheng@link-work.com.hk
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu
Programme Schedule
Performances (free-of-charge)
Venue: Jockey Club Auditorium, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu
18 November 2008  7:30pm
The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》
19 November 2008  7:30pm
Defeat on the Huarong Pass《華容道》
The Western Chamber《西廂記》
20 November 2008  7:30pm
Farewell to the Mother: from The Iron Crown《鐵冠圖‧別母》
At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》
21 November 2008  7:30pm
The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》
Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe
22 November 2008  7:30pm
Winning the Beauty Queen《占花魁》
23 November 2008  2:30pm
The Ghost King Marries Off His Sister《鍾馗嫁妹》
Gazing toward the Homeland《望鄉》
Escape of the Little Monk《下山》
Conquest of Demons《請神降妖》
Talks (free-of-charge)
4 November 2008  5:30-7:00pm    
Venue: Rayson Huang Theatre, The University of Hong Kong 
The Jade Hairpin 
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai 白先勇 
Speakers: Yue Meiti 岳美緹, Weng Guosheng 翁國生
6 November 2008  6:30-8:00pm                    
Venue: Chiang Chen Studio Theatre, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
The Story of the Beauty Queen      
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai 白先勇 
Speaker: Yue Meiti 岳美緹
10 November 2008  2:30-4:20pm            
Venue: Room R6143, City University of Hong Kong 
At the Lenke Mountain 
Moderator: Xing Yiyun 辛意雲 
Speakers: Zhang Jiqing 張繼青, Yao Jikun 姚繼焜
12 November 2008  5:30-7:00pm            
Venue: Ben C. M. Wong Lecture Theatre, Lingnan University 
The Western Chamber 
Moderator: Dr. Si Tou Sau-ieng 司徒秀英 
Speakers: Wang Shiyu 汪世瑜, Liang Guyin 梁谷音
13 November 2008  4:30-6:00pm           
Venue: University Chapel, Hong Kong Baptist University
The Palace of Eternal Life
Moderator: Gu Shaoshen 古兆申 
Speakers: Cai Zhengren 蔡正仁, Zhang Jingxian 張靜嫻
Public Talk 
15 November 2008  1:00-2:30pm    
Venue: Room LT401, City University of Hong Kong      
The Beauty of Kunqu 
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai 白先勇 
Speakers: Prof. Pei-kai Cheng 鄭培凱, Prof. Hua Wei 華瑋 
Gu Shaoshen 古兆申, Zhang Lizhen 張麗真
Programme is subject to change without prior notice.
