[title]Four distinguished HKU scholars receive Croucher Innovation and Senior Research Fellowship Awards[/title]
[date]13 Apr 2016[/date]
 

(From left) Dr Cui Heming, Professor Chen Guanhua, Professor Rosie Young (the officiating guest), Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu and Professor Xu Aimin

Four distinguished scholars from the University of Hong Kong were among the eight awardees of the Croucher Awards this year. They are:
Croucher Innovation Awards 2016
Dr Ho Yu AU-YEUNG (HKU)
Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science
Dr Heming CUI (HKU)
Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Engineering
Croucher Senior Research Fellowships 2016
Professor Guanhua CHEN (HKU)
Head of Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science
Professor Aimin XU (HKU)
Professor, Department of Medicine and Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine

Dr AU-YEUNG Ho Yu, Croucher Innovation Award 2016

Dr Cui Heming, Croucher Innovation Award 2016



Professor Chen Guanhua, Croucher Senior Research Fellowship 2016

Professor Xu Aimin, Croucher Senior Research Fellowship 2016


Four HKU Croucher Innovation and Senior Research Fellowship awardees and University members

The Croucher Innovation Awards
Established in 2012, the Croucher Innovation Awards aim to identify a small number of exceptionally talented scientists working at an internationally competitive level and to offer substantial support to these ‘rising stars’ at a formative stage in their careers. The scheme is designed to enable recipients to pursue their own scientific, intellectual and professional inclinations, to advance their expertise, to engage in bold new work, and to contribute to the development of education and research in Hong Kong. Each award carries a value of up to HK$5 million over 5 years.
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997. The value of the awards are about HKD900,000 for the Senior Research Fellowship. The award includes a personal grant of HKD60,000 to the recipient for research expenses. It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work as judged by leading international scientists invited to provide confidential reviews of candidates nominated in a competitive exercise. Funds are awarded to the universities of the fellowship recipients, enabling the university to recruit replacement teachers to take over the award winner’s duties for the period of the fellowship. This enables the awardees to devote more time and effort to research work.
For the Croucher Foundation press release, please visit: http://www.cpr.cuhk.edu.hk/en/press_detail.php?id=2234
Media enquiries:
Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU
Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media)
Tel: (852) 2859 2600,  Email: melwkwan@hku.hk
Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Miss Pinky Yu, Senior Project Officer (External Relations)
Tel: 3917 9306, Email: pinkyyu@hku.hk
