[title]HKU Residential Colleges naming 
celebrates shared values of University education
[/title]
[date]29 Apr 2014[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong today (April 29) announced the naming of the four residential colleges in the Jockey Club Student Village III (賽馬會第三學生村) – Shun Hing College (信興學院), Chi Sun College (志新學院), Lap-Chee College (立之學院) and New College (日新學院). 
The residential colleges at Kennedy Town have been made possible by donations totaling HKD 450M to support university developments including further learning opportunities for students and service to the community.  These Colleges represent the shared values and educational goals between the university and its benefactors. 
They are a welcomed addition to the 15 residential halls, colleges and residences that had previously been in place to accommodate 4,500 students.
Set up with a resolution of the Senate in 2010, the Residential Colleges are intellectual and culturally diversified learning communities where residential education and intellectual pursuits are closely integrated.  Presently home to 1,800 students, the Residential Colleges have a balanced mix of undergraduates and postgraduates, and international, Mainland and local students.
The Residential Colleges are committed to community engagement -- since 2012, students have initiated various projects for the promotion of town-gown relations and contribute to society local and beyond. They have launched service projects, started eco farming in the Long Valley fresh water wetland, and built bio-sand filters in Cambodia. They have also organised music and cultural festivals for the neighbourhood, started media projects and documentaries on the Western District, as well as hosted basin meals for the elderly in the Colleges.
The University is most grateful to the Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust for having established the first, second and now the third student village at HKU.  Shun Hing College, Chi Sun College and New College (previously known as Blocks A, B and D) are named in recognition of the generous gifts from Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, Simatelex Charitable Foundation, and The Tung Foundation respectively. They are long-time supporters of the university and of education. The Chinese names of these three colleges embody the virtues of trust and integrity, innovation and advancement, renewal and perfection -- echoing the missions of the University.
Lap-Chee College (Block C) is named after the immediate past Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.  The naming was proposed by a group of alumni and friends who, while making a gift to support university developments, wish to also honour  Professor Tsui.
The current President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson applauded all the benefactors for their generous support. He said: “I am sure the university family is excited that a Residential College is named after the immediate past Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and he has graciously agreed to lend his name.”  Professor Mathieson and the Council commented: “This is a most appropriate way to recognise Professor Tsui’s stellar service to the University.” The inauguration of all the four Residential Colleges of Jockey Club Student Village III will be held in late 2014.
Residential Colleges will have a strong sense of identity and an emphasis on contribution to society.  Each Residential College will also have its own mission, motto and character, and its members will have life-long bonding after graduation.
For more information on the Residential Colleges, please visit: jockeyv3_fact_sheet_(English).doc or www.jockeyv3.hku.hk. .
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy of the Communications and Public Affairs Office (tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk); or Ms Rainbow Wong (tel: 2219 4357, email: rainbow.wong@hku.hk) and Ms Polo Leung (tel: 2241 5677, email: pololeung@hku.hk) of the Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office.

1.  The four Residential Colleges (from left to right): Shun Hing College, Chi Sun College, Lap-Chee College, New College

2.  Basin meals with 300 elderly citizens from Kwun Lung Lau in the College (Professor Gabriel Leung, Master of Chi Sun College)



3.  Basin meals with 300 elderly citizens from Kwun Lung Lau in the College

4.  Students started eco-farming in the Long Valley fresh water wetland



5.  Visit the elderly homes in Western District

6.  Music and cultural festivals for the neighbourhood



7.  High Table in the College Hall


