[title]“Amalgamation of Scholarship and Art
- Selected Artworks of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole's Collection” exhibition held to 
thank Professor Jao for his generous donation of books and artworks [/title]
[date]16 Apr 2013[/date]
 
Professor Jao Tsung-I, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and Director of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole Professor C.F. Lee
Professor Jao Tsung-I has been affiliated with the University of Hong Kong (HKU) as a scholar, poet and painter since the early 1950s. When the Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of theHKU was established in 2003, Professor Jao contributed two sets of donations, which can be regarded as the major portion of this academic institute. Over the years, Professor Jao has contributed over 30,000 books to HKU, including hundreds of wood board printed editions of the Ming and Qing dynasties. The other part of the contribution comprises his calligraphy, paintings and studio objects.
To express sincere gratitude to Professor Jao, the University Museum and Art Gallery (UMAG) presents an exhibition of the calligraphy, paintings and books (written and collected) contributed by Professor Jao from April 17 to June 23, 2013. This “Amalgamation of Scholarship and Art - Selected Artworks of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole's Collection” gives testimony not only to the wealth of talent and accomplishments that mark the outstanding career of Professor Jao, but also to his unparalleled generosity towards HKU and the rich donation he bestowed upon the University.  Both his literary and visual works are characteristic of the scholar’s intellectual interests, research and knowledge of Chinese classics and the history of art and literature, and his ease and versatility to adopt traditional values.

“Amalgamation of Scholarship and Art -- Selected Artworks of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole's Collection” exhibition opening ceremony
For the exhibition, Professor Jao selected his most representative works from those he created in the past decades. These artworks not only symbolize his artistic development and achievements, but exemplify the scholar artist’s accomplishments in calligraphy and painting.
Beautifully executed masterpieces in their own right, Professor Jao’s ink and water colour paintings represent a repertoire of techniques that testifies to the artist’s adaptation of styles—both thematic and practical—that allude to different schools primarily during the Tang, Song and Yuan dynasties.  Equally, the iconographic variety includes figures from Dunhuang frescos, as well as traditional landscapes and symbolic animals and flowers, such as his “Landscapes of the Four Seasons”, “Two Fish” and “Red Lotus”, which evoke the learned philosophies ever-present in the works of the scholarly artist.

Professor Jao reveals his ability to innovate in the process of his art creation. Now in his 90s, he still makes strenuous efforts to develop new directions in the realms of calligraphy and painting. Neither being limited by the regulations of painting and calligraphy nor by the boundary between Chinese and Western painting, Professor Jao consummately wields calligraphy and painting instruments and techniques, which are presented through his ancient character calligraphy, forceful running-cursive script calligraphy, Northwestern School landscape painting style, pioneering Dunhuang sketch technique, and tremendous momentum in lotus paintings.
Professor Jao’s literary works include poems and calligraphic couplets reminiscent of his studies of Chinese art and literature, and they undoubtedly found their own significant place in Chinese art history.  The artist transcribes—both verbally and in stylistic manner—the texts of celebrated writers, highlighting not just their historical significance, but their continuous importance in our era. 
Professor Jao Tsung-I’s oeuvre demonstrates his advocacy of Chinese history, art and culture, and HKU is deeply indebted for his generosity to share the ongoing educational value and inherent beauty of his scholarship and art. He is unquestionably playing an important role in contemporary art history.
Selected collections : 

Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole饒宗頤學術館圖
colour on paper   80 x 110cm  Year 2008
Author: Jao Tsung-I (1917- )
Description:
This work depicts the scenery of Jao Tsung-I  
Petite Ecole, nestled in the mountains and trees of Pokfulam.  Professor Jao started with a quick sketch and then rearranged the composition, finally accomplished this work.  This painting is regarded as one of his representative works of Hong Kong landscape painting.

Red Lotus朱荷
colour on paper    132.5x66.5cm  Year 2000
Author: Jao Tsung-I (1917- )
Description:
The space of this painting is densely occupied by lotus leaves, and the flowers merely take up little room on the top.  By arranging the composition in this special way, the posture of the lotus appears like that of a bashful lady who is embarrassed to meet people.  The variety of ink tones of the lotus leaves accentuates the red lotus in colour.


Gazetteers of Chaozhou《潮州志》
Author: Jao Tsung-I (1917- )
Edition: Print, 1946
Volume: 20
Description:
This collection contains 16 gazetteers
and it exceeds all its predecessors in terms of systematic
construction and meticulous composition.

Heart of Boya《伯牙心法》
Author: Yang Lun (16th century)
Edition: Block print, Ming Dynasty [1609]
Volume: 4
Description: 
The book contains 29 pieces of Guqin tunes.
It was originally collected by Robert Hans van Gulik (1910-1967),
who latter gave it to Prof. Jao Tsung-I as a gift.


Trip to Tianjin - A Diary of Mr. Thuat Nguyen
《荷亭公往津日記集》
Author: Thuat Nguyen (1842-1911)
Edition: Hand written copy of Vietnam, Late Qing Dynasty
Volume: 1
Description:
The diary was written by Thuat Nguyen,
a Vietnamese diplomat, during his delegation to the Qing court.
This particular copy was kept by the French doyen
Prof. Paul Démiéville (1894-1979) before it was presented to Prof. Jao Tsung-I in 1966.

History of Japanese Poetry &amp; Poetics of Gozando
《日本詩史．五山堂詩話》
Author: Shimizu Shigeru (1925-2008) et al (Ed.)
Edition: Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten,  1991
Volume: 1
Description:
This volume was autograhed as a gift to Prof. Jao Tsung-i by Shimizu Shigeru, a famous Japanese sinologist.


For media enquiries, please contact Communications and Public Affairs Office :
Assistant Director (Media) Ms Trinni Choy , tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk , or  
Manager (Media) Ms Rhea Leung, tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk 
For details of the Exhibition, please contact :                                             
University Museum and Art Gallery, The University of Hong Kong;  tel 2241 5500

