[title]HKU Faculty of Architecture holds “Career Discovery in Landscape Architecture” Workshop 2014[/title]
[date]15 Aug 2014[/date]
 
The Installation Presentation of “Career Discovery in Landscape Architecture” Workshop 2014 was held on August 15, 2014 (Today). This year, the workshop attracted 19 participants who are interested to be in the profession of landscape architecture.
Since 2009, HKU Faculty of Architecture has been organizing the “Career Discovery in Landscape Architecture” (CDLA) - an exploration program for high school students who are interested in bringing a more sustainable living environment to our city. CDLA offers a 3-week program each summer to young people to experience what it is like to be in the profession of landscape architecture.
This year, CDLA is taking students to install a 1:1 scale “Playscape” installation at HKU Campus, hoping to bring active participation to public spaces, and to induce new ways of interpreting landscape architecture by using Chinese steamers and plant materials. Through the themes of “Sit”, “Lie”, “Step”, “Cave”, “Reach”, and “Pass Through”, students will create play spaces that require visitors to perform the themed action in order to interact with plants selected.
Ms Nicole Choi, a Year 2 student, was impressed by the programme: “I think it was a fun and fulfilling experience. It allows us to create something unique and learn from our design. It helped me understand the field of design and landscape architecture.” Another participant, Ms Angelica Fung, a high school student, said: “For the 1st time in my life, I’ve learnt a lot about plants and successfully planted trees.”
At the installation presentation, the Head of Division of Landscape Architecture Mr Matthew Pryor praised the students for their creativity. Ms Vincci Mak, Program Director of CDLA and Assistant Professor at the HKU Division of Landscape Architecture, chose Chinese steamers as the building material for students to learn space-making. She explained, “While Chinese steamer is an everyday object that most students are familiar with culturally, it is also made with modular dimensions for easy stacking and assembling”. She hopes that the easy-maneuvering of space-making materials can help encourage young people to get excited about design and creation of space.
The “Playscape” installation will be on display from Aug 15 (Friday) – Sept 19 (Friday), at the Top of Sun Yat Sen Steps at HKU Campus. For more information, please visit:
http://fac.arch.hku.hk/summer/hk/cdla/
https://www.facebook.com/pages/The-University-of-Hong-Kong-Career-Discovery-in-Landscape-Architecture/419307761513300
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms Vincci Mak, Program Director of CDLA (Tel: 3917 5654 / wsvmak@hku.hk)
Ms Julie Chu, Communications and Public Affairs Office (Tel: 2859 2437 or 9354 3898/ juliechu@hku.hk)

The Installation of Career Discovery in Landscape Architecture Workshops 2014

The Installation Presentation of “Career Discovery in Landscape Architecture Workshops” 2014



Head of Division of Landscape Architecture Mr Matthew Pryor

Program Director of CDLA and Assistant Professor at HKU Division of Landscape Architecture Ms Vincci Mak



Nicole Choi and her team with the installation "Reach – Back to Zero"

Chan Sze Wah, Lai Shu Yin, Li Issac, with their TA Yuen Chun Yin, taking photo at their installation "Cave – 1.618"



Students testing the structural stability of their bamboo steamer structure

Students planting at their installation on site


