[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No.1 in Asia by The Economist for the 5th Consecutive Year
[/title]
[date]10 Oct 2014[/date]
 
In the latest World MBA Rankings released by The Economist today, HKU’s MBA Programme has again been ranked No. 1 in Asia for the fifth consecutive year since 2010, the Programme has been ranked No. 27 in its 2014 global ranking.
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong, remarked, “We are thrilled that HKU MBA ranked the best in Asia for the fifth consecutive year, the Programme is dedicated to provide first-class business education to leaders who target professional advancement, career switch and individual enrichment.  Providing our students with up-to-date knowledge of the dynamic business environment, exposure and soft skills enhancement essential for professional and personal development, we are confident in our MBA students and alumni that they will translate the skills and knowledge acquired at HKU into practices and bring positive influence to the business world.”
Dr. Maurice Tse, Associate Dean (MBA, EMBA and External Relations) of the Faculty of Business and Economics, said, “HKU MBA graduates are equipped to operate in situations in which the only certainty is uncertainty.  In an era in which transnational companies must find their own ever-shifting niches in fast-moving ever-changing markets, HKU MBA students are good at operating in a region as diverse as it is vast, a region of many peoples and cultures, where evolving political regimes contend with global trends and modern technologies to shape market institutions.  We expect from our students a strong commitment to personal and professional development, high ethical standards, innovation and exploration as well as to public and community service."
Dr. Christine Chan, Assistant Dean (MBA), added, “We will continue to foster strategic cooperation with the business community so that latest market information is brought in to strengthen the position of HKU MBA as well as to make the Programme more competitive.    Developing business contacts and personal networks is an integral part of the MBA education, we shall ceaselessly introduce these to our students, graduands and alumni, and fully support them to strive for career development in accord with their goals and interests.”
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Executive Director of HKU MBA Programme, continued, “We highly value interaction among the programme team, alumni and students that make HKU MBA more conducive to knowledge and experience exchange.  In addition to the alumni-students buddy programme that connects students with seasoned graduates and the regional alumni chapters to foster their networks, we also arrange inter-programme networking and sharing with students from our EMBA and MBA (International). All the diversified value-added components of the Programme will further our students’ advancement beyond intellectual growth and secure them with brighter prospects.  In fact, in this week, we have also been ranked No. 21 in “The Top 35 MBAs for getting a job in hedge funds, private equity and asset management” worldwide ranking by eFinancialCareers.  ”
With strong demands from the globe, the HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale, providing week-day and week-end modules, market-oriented and/or China- and Asia-focused electives.  With students coming from different parts of the world, HKU MBA is multinational and international.  HKU also enhances the career development services covering career counselling and coaching as well as job placement which are tailor-made to fit the career goals, aspirations and directions of different students.
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
 Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
 Personal development and educational experience
 Increase salary
 Potential to network
The Economist Global MBA Ranking: http://www.economist.com/whichmba/full-time-mba-ranking
eFinancialCareers “The Top 35 MBAs for getting a job in hedge funds, private equity and asset management” global ranking:http://news.efinancialcareers.com/uk-en/186153/top-35-mbas-getting-job-hedge-funds-private-equity-asset-management/
For media enquiries, please contact:
Helen Wong
Assistant Director of Communications
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 3917 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
Cynthy Tang
Assistant Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 3917 4488
Email: cyntang@hku.hk
