[title]HKU graduate named Rhodes Scholar 2015[/title]
[date]02 Dec 2014[/date]
 
Geoffrey Yeung Ka-Wei (BBA(Law) 2012; LLB 2014; PCLL Year 1) has been named the 2015 Rhodes Scholar for Hong Kong. The Rhodes Scholarship is one of the oldest and most prestigious academic awards for postgraduate students in the world. Each year, one Rhodes Scholar from Hong Kong is selected to join over 80 other Rhodes Scholars from around the world to study at the University of Oxford.
"When I received the call, I was so excited that I put down the phone and literally jumped. I am so grateful and it still feels very unreal to be selected as a Rhodes Scholar," said the 27th Rhodes Scholar from Hong Kong.
The Scholarship is unique for recognising outstanding leadership qualities and commitment to service, and for supporting intellectual students who demonstrate a strong propensity to emerge as "leaders for the world's future" in their pursuit of a postgraduate degree. Rhodes Scholars including former US president Bill Clinton have gone on to serve at the forefront of public service or have advanced the frontiers of art, science and medicine.
Scored 10As in the HKCEE, Geoffrey is a graduate of the Diocesan Boy’s School. A student with a personal dedication to civil society and equality, he impressed the selection committee with his energy and personal commitment to working with disadvantaged members of society. "What is important is to show your vision and passion in leading and bringing changes to society."
Geoffrey plans to study for a Bachelor of Civil Law at Oxford starting in 2015. "I want to pursuit a career that focuses on advancing human rights and making the voices of marginalised groups heard in society." He said.
For the press release issued by the University of Oxford China Office, please click here
For details of the Rhodes Scholarship, please visit: http://www.rhodeshouse.ox.ac.uk/hong-kong
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office (tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk) 
 

