[title]HKU Computer Center and the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering won three Silver Awards in the Hong Kong ICT Awards 2012[/title]
[date]19 Apr 2012[/date]
 
At the Hong Kong ICT Awards 2012 Presentation Ceremony held on April 3, 2012 (Tuesday), the University of Hong Kong (HKU) was presented with three silver awards. They were the Best Green ICT (Adoption-Organisations) Silver Award for the Computer Centre; and the Best Lifestyle Award Sliver Award and the Best Ubiquitous Networking Award Sliver Award for the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
The Computer Centre team won the silver award with the project "Green ICT at Users' Fingertip", team members included Dr. P.T. Ho (Deputy Director), Mr. Peter Li (Associate IT Director), Mr. Chang Kai Cheong (Senior IT Manager), Mr. Frankie Cheung (Senior IT Manager) and Mr. Edward Yu (IT Officer). 
The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering team won two silver awards with the projects "Interactive Class on Cloud - iClass" and "Mobile Real-time Interactive Publishing Platform". Its members included Dr. Wilton Fok, Assistant Dean (External Relations and Knowledge Exchange), Faculty of Engineering; Mr. Eric Au Yeung (Electronic Communication Engineering graduate 2011); Mr. Ken Law (Electronic Communication Engineering graduate 2010) and Mr. Alan Chiang (Computer Science graduate 2010).
Green ICT at Users' Fingertip
Best Green ICT (Adoption - Organisations) Silver Award
The project is about the green private cloud computing service for HKU community that has been put into service since late 2011. Through this development, a large number of physical servers and storage systems are consolidated into a flexible and user-friendly cloud computing environment. The setting up of this green ICT facility, which consists of a Cloud Infrastructure and a Cloud Management System, demonstrates Computer Centre's effort in contributing to environment sustainability by saving considerable energy and physical resources that would otherwise be consumed by operating physical servers separately managed in departments. Furthermore, the facility is conveniently available at users' fingertips so that much burden would be relieved from departments in meeting their ICT needs for various academic and administration purposes. 
Interactive Class on Cloud - iClass
Best Lifestyle Award Sliver Award - Living and Learning
The project was evolved from the final year project of Ken Law (Electronic Communication Engineering graduate 2010) which was supported by a Teaching Development Grant for further development. The project was supervised by Dr. Wilton Fok and co-supervised by Dr. K. S. Lui and Dr. Vincent Tam. The solution allows teachers and students to interact and share their ideas in lecture through smartphone and tablet PC.
Mobile Real-time Interactive Publishing Platform
Best Ubiquitous Networking Award Sliver Award
The project related to the stream of "Mobile Publishing". This award was jointly granted to the collaborating organization, MediaNet Hong Kong Ltd. With the rich educational contents contributed by the MediaNet and the latest mobile technologies contributed by the e-Learning Technology Development Laboratory of HKU's Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, a solution of interactive e-book publishing platform is developed for primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong.
About the Hong Kong ICT Award
The Hong Kong ICT Awards were established in 2006 under a collaborative effort amongst the industry, the academia and the Government. The Awards aim at building a large scale and internationally recognised branding of ICT awards of Hong Kong. The Awards Steering Committee is chaired by the Government Chief Information Officer HKSAR.
For media enquiries, please contact Dr Wilton Fok at wtfok@eee.hku.hk , tel: 93676877; Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


From Left: Mr. Alan Chiang, Mr. Ken Law, Mr. Eric Au Yeung, Dr. Wilton Fok, Mr. Frankie Cheung, Mr. Peter Li, Mr. Chang Kai Cheong

HKU Computer Centre team won silver award with "Green ICT at Users' Fingertip"


HKU Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering team won two silver awards: Best Lifestyle Award and the Best Ubiquitous Networking Sliver Award

Type your content here. Type your From left: Mr. Ken Law, Dr. Wilton Fok, Dr. George Yuen (HKU Court Member), Hon. John Tsang (Guest of Honor, Financial Secretary, HKSAR) and Hon. Dr. C.H. Leong (HKU Council Chairman), Mr. Alan Chiang and Mr. Eric Au Yeung
here. Type your content here. Type your content here.


HKU Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering team members with MediaNet representatives Ms. Iris Chen (2nd left) and Mr. YF Chow (3rd right)
.



