[title]HKU to award four Honorary Degrees[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2008[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) will be conferring honorary degrees upon four outstanding individuals at the 177th Congregation on March 11, 2008 at Loke Yew Hall, HKU. 
The honorary degree recipients are: 
Doctor of Science honoris causa
Dr Chiang Chen, GBM, OBE
Professor Mak Tak-wah, OC, O Ont 
Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, CBE, GBS, JP
Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, GBS, JP 
~~~~~
Dr Chiang Chen, GBM, OBE
Dr Chiang Chen is Chairman &amp; Founder of Chen Hsong Holdings Limited and Chiang Chen industrial Charity Foundation. For further advancement of industrialization in China, Dr Chiang donated all the shares he owned in the Chen Hsong Group in 1990 to found the Chiang Chen Industrial Charity Foundation. Over the years, the Foundation has supported the training and research development of manufacturing industries in China. HKU will confer on him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa in recognition of his contributions to building the industrial sector in Hong Kong and on the Mainland, and thus enriching the livelihood of people throughout the nation. 
Professor Mak Tak-wah, OC, O Ont
Professor Mak Tak-wah is a Professor in the Departments of Medical Biophysics and Immunology at the University of Toronto, Director of the Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, and Senior Scientist at Advanced Medical Discovery Institute/Ontario Cancer Institute. In 1984, he published his work on the cloning of T-cell receptor genes; as of 2005, that article has been cited nearly 1,200 times. His role in advancing the use of genetically-altered mice in scientific study has led to important breakthroughs in immunology and understanding cancer at the cellular level. HKU will confer on him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa in recognition of his pioneering work in immunology and cancer research. 
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, CBE, GBS, JP
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, former President of Lingnan University, is an Honorary Professor and Distinguished Fellow of the Centre of Asian Studies at The University of Hong Kong. He was a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong during 1991-1992, and a member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong during 1992-1997. He was a member of the Hong Kong SAR Basic Law Consultative Committee, 1985-1990. He served the Consumer Council for over 10 years and was its Chairman during the period 1991-1997, working particularly on the promotion of competition policy in Hong Kong. HKU will confer on him the degree of Social Sciences honoris causa in recognition of his invaluable contributions to the Hong Kong community and to academia. 
Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, GBS, JP
Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong has served as Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority since its establishment in April 1993. His involvement in monetary affairs in Hong Kong started when he was appointed as Principal Assistant Secretary for Monetary Affairs in 1982. He helped put together Hong Kong's Linked Exchange Rate system in 1983. In 1995, Mr Yam was honoured with the Banker of the Year Award in Hong Kong by the Hong Kong Institute of Bankers. Euromoney also awarded him Central Banker of the Year in Asia in 1996 and Central Banker of the Year in 1997. In 1998, Mr Yam was awarded Central Bank Governor of the Year in Asia by Euromoney for his role in piloting Hong Kong through the Asian currency turmoil. HKU will confer on him the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa in recognition of his contributions to the financial sector of Hong Kong. 
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Manager (Media) HKU (Tel: 2859 2606/ Mobile: 8208 1686 / Email: cherry.cheung@hku.hk) 
For photo captions:
picture 1- Dr. Chiang Chen
picture 2- Professor Mak Tak-wah
picture 3- Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu
picture 4- Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong

 


Picture 1
 
Picture 2

Picture 3
 
Picture 4
 
 
 
