[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No.1 in Asia by The Economist 
for the 6th Consecutive Year[/title]
[date]16 Oct 2015[/date]
 
In the latest World MBA Rankings released by The Economist today (October 16), HKU’s MBA Programme has been ranked No.1 in Asia for the sixth consecutive year since 2010 and the Programme has been ranked No. 26, one place up than the previous year, in its global ranking.
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of the University of Hong Kong, said: “The sixth consecutive championship in Asia for HKU MBA undoubtedly proves that our Programme is tailor-made to offer the best business education to successful leaders who aspire to achieve professional advancement, career switch and individual enrichment. When the global economic growth is uncertain, HKU MBA students are good at operating in a region as diverse as it is vast, a region of many peoples and cultures, where emerging economies in Asia contend with the new global growth trends and modern technologies to shape market institutions. We expect from our students a strong commitment to personal and professional development, high ethical standards, innovation and exploration as well as to serving the community and the public.”
Professor Bennett Yim, Associate Dean (Postgraduate) of the Faculty of Business and Economics, said: “HKU MBA graduates are well-trained to face favourable situations with positivity but even more so for adversities. We do our best to nurture our students with the cutting-edge knowledge of the ever-changing business markets, exposure and soft skills enhancement essential for their professional and personal development. We are positive that our MBA students and alumni will apply the skills and knowledge acquired at HKU to practices and bring positive influence to the business world.”
Dr. Christine Chan, Assistant Dean (MBA), added: “Our effort to foster strategic cooperation with the business community will be continued so that latest market intelligence is brought in to strengthen the position of HKU MBA as well as to make the Programme more competitive.    Developing business contacts and personal networks is an integral part of the MBA education. Our students, graduands and alumni will be ceaselessly introduced to all these, and be fully supported to strive for career advancement that suits their goals and interests.”
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Executive Director of HKU MBA Programme, continued: “We highly value interaction among our Programme team, alumni and students which makes HKU MBA more conducive to knowledge and experience exchange. Besides the alumni-students buddy programme that connects students with seasoned graduates and the regional alumni chapters to foster their networks, we also arrange inter-programme networking and sharing with students from our EMBA and MBA (International). All the diversified value-added components of the Programme will further our students’ advancement beyond intellectual growth and secure them with brighter prospects.”
With strong demands from the globe, the HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale, providing week-day and week-end modules, market-oriented and/or China- and Asia-focused electives. Our students come from different parts of the world which makes HKU MBA multinational and international. HKU also enhances career development services covering career counselling and coaching as well as job placement which are individually made to fit the career goals, aspirations and directions of different students.
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
 Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
 Personal development and educational experience
 Increase salary
 Potential to network
The Economist Global MBA Ranking:
http://www.economist.com/whichmba/full-time-mba-ranking?year=2015&amp;term_node_tid_depth=All
About Faculty of Business and Economics, the University of Hong Kong
The Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) strives to nurture first-class business leaders and foster academic and relevant research to serve the needs of Hong Kong, China and the rest of the world in the new Asia-led economy.
As Asia’s premier international business school, FBE engages leading scholars from all corners of the globe and they instil in the students global knowledge with an Asian perspective.  The Faculty attracts top students from Hong Kong and beyond.  It admits the highest proportion of non-local undergraduate students amongst all Faculties at HKU. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University’s top 10 programmes. 
The Faculty’s full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS), has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia’s no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) for six consecutive years from 2010 to 2015.
The Faculty also offers an elite EMBA Global Asia programme, jointly with CBS and LBS, for globally-focused senior executives and professionals.  Its International MBA Programme, delivered in Shanghai in collaboration with Fudan University, was the first of its kind when it was launched in 1998.
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS).  Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
Website: www.fbe.hku.hk and Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/hkubusinesseconomicsfaculty
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Helen Wong
Assistant Director of Communications
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 3917 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
Mr. Johnny Tam
Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 3917 4488
Email: jtamks@hku.hk
