[title]HKU launches the SERVICE 100 AMBASSADOR scheme[/title]
[date]10 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong's SERVICE 100 Fair, which kicked-off today (Nov 10) and runs till 11th of November, is a two-day event that aims to promote the service spirit of the university. More than twenty booths have been set up at the fair for NGOs to introduce their service opportunities and for student groups to showcase their service projects. To reassure HKU members of their roles and continuous efforts in serving both local and global communities, the launching ceremony of The SERVICE 100 AMBASSADOR Scheme was held today and a roundtable on "The Role of Service in Higher Education" will be held tomorrow.
The SERVICE 100 AMBASSADOR scheme aims to honor HKU members' service effort and to inspire more to make lifelong contributions to the betterment of humanity. Recognition is made to individuals and families that have reached a certain hours of service. The scheme was launched last week and has recruited more than 1,500 students, alumni and staff already.
Three outstanding ambassadors shared their amazing service experience at the ceremony. They are:
Sean Yuen (alumnus, staff)
Sean established Impact for Peace which core mission is to sponsor children to go to school in India. He recruited 10 HKU students to provide vocational training and leather craft skills to women in India.
Dr. Angela Leung (Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing)
Angela created project GAPIE which paired up students with the elderlies for a 10 week bonding time.
Helen Kwok (student)
Helen initiated "Less Meat Monday" campaign to promote vegetarianism at campus.
To encourage more HKU members to initiate service projects, SERVICE100 Fund has been set up to give financial support to selected service projects. Each service project can apply up to $50,000 to be spend within one calendar year, the amount of support granted is subjected to project merit. Since summer 2011, the Fund has supported more than 20 projects with over HK$300,000 for a variety of community service locally and abroad. Over 480 students are expected to benefit from these projects.
A new round of recipients of SERVICE100 Fund was announced today at the ceremony. 14 new projects, mainly for environmental protection and education service, have been granted a total of more than HK$125,000. Recipients includes student teams that plan to go on volunteer teaching trips to Sichuan and Yunnan, China as well as provide private tutoring to local underprivileged kids. Another funded project plans to create five child-friendly schools with library and teaching facilities in the villages of India.
Besides the SERVICE 100 Fund, HKU also provided funding for 11 environmental protection projects that totals to over $160,000. These projects will benefit over 270 HKU students and over 1,500 secondary and primary school students.
Apart from the ceremony, winning photos of the SERVICE 100 Photo Competition was displayed to demonstrate how students have been contributing to the UN's Millennium Development Goals. All winners are entitled to receive a service fund of $3000 to support their next service project. Souvenirs and free copies of Serving Our Way Forward: HKU Members' Effort for A Better World! , a booklet capturing service stories of the HKU community were distributed. http://wp.cedars.hku.hk/web/sd/2011/07/26/world-fair/
About SERVICE 100
As one of the three themes of HKU centenary celebration, SERVICE 100 reaffirms HKU's commitment to building a better world. Students, staff, alumni and friends will engage in hundreds of community service projects worldwide, mobilising the HKU Family locally as well as across the globe.
FOR MEDIA ENQUIRIES:
Sunny Tse
CEDARS, The University of Hong Kong
Tel: 22194317 or 65051910
Email: sunnytse@hku.hk

 
The SERVICE 100 AMBASSADOR scheme honors outstanding student volunteers
 
New fund recipients for more service projects
 
HKU student volunteers


