[title]HKU to confer honorary degrees upon five outstanding individuals 
at the 195th Congregation
[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2016[/date]
 
The Pro-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) Dr the Honourable Sir David Li Kwok Po will confer honorary degrees upon five outstanding individuals at the 195th Congregation to be held on March 15, 2016 (Tuesday) in Loke Yew Hall.
The honorary degree recipients to be conferred at the Congregation are:
Doctor of Science honoris causa
Victor Joseph DZAU
Mary-Claire KING
Lap-Chee TSUI
Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa
Elsie LEUNG Oi Sie
LUI Che Woo
Honorary Degrees are awarded to individuals in recognition of their distinguished service and commitment to the University, the community, and to academia.  They are also conferred to those who have made valuable intellectual, social and cultural contributions to society and the world.
Biographies:

Dr Victor Joseph Dzau
Victor Joseph Dzau
Dr Victor Joseph Dzau is the President of the National Academy of Medicine, USA, formerly the Institute of Medicine (IOM). He serves as the Vice Chair of the Governing Board of the National Research Council. He is Chancellor Emeritus and James B Duke Professor of Medicine at Duke University and the past President and CEO of the Duke University Health System.
Dr Dzau was born in Shanghai, raised in Hong Kong, and holds an MD from McGill University, Canada. He has served as the Hersey Professor and Chairman of Medicine at Harvard Medical School, as well as Chairman of Medicine at Stanford University.
Dr Dzau has made a significant impact on medicine through his seminal research in cardiovascular medicine and genetics and his leadership in health care innovation. His work contributed importantly to the contemporary understanding of cardiovascular disease and the development widely used, lifesaving drugs. In his role as a leader in health care, Dr Dzau has led efforts in innovation to improve health, and advises governments, corporations, and universities worldwide.
Among his many honors and recognitions are the Gustav Nylin Medal from the Swedish Royal College of Medicine, the Distinguished Scientist Award from the American Heart Association, Ellis Island Medal of Honor, and the Henry Freisen International Prize. In 2014, Dr Dzau received the Public Service Medal from the President of Singapore. He is a member of the National Academy of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the European Academy of Sciences and Arts. He has received eight honorary doctorates.
In recognition of his contributions to society and the world, the University has resolved to confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.


Dr Mary-Claire King
Mary-Claire KING
Dr Mary-Claire King is the American Cancer Society Professor in the Department of Medicine and the Department of Genome Sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington.
Dr King grew up in Chicago and received her BA cum laude from Carleton College, Minnesota; her PhD from the University of California at Berkeley; and her postdoctoral training at UC San Francisco.
Dr King was the first to show that breast cancer is inherited in some families, as the result of mutations in the gene that she named BRCA1. She pioneered the use of DNA sequencing for human rights investigations, developing the approach of sequencing mitochondrial DNA preserved in human remains, then applying this method to the identification of kidnapped children in Argentina and subsequently to cases of human rights violations on six continents.
Dr King has served on multiple councils and study sections of the National Institutes of Health and the National Academy of Sciences. She was consultant to the Commission on the Disappearance of Persons of the Republic of Argentina and carried out DNA identifications for the United Nations War Crimes Tribunals. She is past president of the American Society of Human Genetics and is currently a member of the Council of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA.
Dr King has been awarded 14 honorary doctoral degrees and has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Academy of Medicine, the American Philosophical Society, and as a foreign member of the French Academy of Sciences. In 2014, she received the Lasker Special Achievement Award for Medical Research and in 2016 the United States National Medal of Science.
In recognition of her contributions to society and the world, the University has resolved to confer upon her the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.


Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
Lap-Chee TSUI
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was the 14th Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Hong Kong, and is currently President of The Academy of Sciences of Hong Kong, President of the Victor and William Fung Foundation, Director of the Qiushi Academy for Advanced Studies in Zhejiang University, and Emeritus University Professor at the University of Toronto.
Professor Tsui was born in Shanghai, China, and holds a BSc and an MPhil from the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and a PhD from the University of Pittsburgh. He joined the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto in 1981, where he would become Geneticist-in-Chief and also world-renowned for his identification of the gene for Cystic Fibrosis in 1989.
As Vice-Chancellor of HKU from 2002 to 2014, Professor Tsui steered the University through a period of unprecedented growth and development – strengthening its international standing, implementing comprehensive human resources reform, focusing its research strategies, building a new state-of-the-art campus and raising the bar for institutional advancement, not only at HKU, but for the entire higher education sector in Hong Kong.
Professor Tsui is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, the Royal Society of London and Academia Sinica. He is a Foreign Associate of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, Foreign Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Laureate of the Canadian Medical Hall of Fame. He has been awarded 14 honorary doctoral degrees from universities around the world, the Order of Canada, the Order of Ontario, and the Legion d’Honneur of France. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 2006 and awarded a Gold Bauhinia Star in 2011.
In recognition of his contributions to science, higher education and society, the University has resolved to confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.


Dr the Honourable Elsie Leung Oi Sie
Elsie LEUNG Oi Sie
Dr the Honourable Elsie Leung Oi Sie was the first Secretary for Justice of Hong Kong. She was educated in Hong Kong, passed her Law Society Qualifying Examination in 1967 and graduated with a LLM degree from HKU in 1988, the first time the degree was awarded by the University.
As Secretary for Justice, she headed the Department of Justice from 1997 to 2005. She was, during the same period, a member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong. Since 2006, she became and is currently a Deputy Director of the Hong Kong Basic Law Committee under the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the PRC. Dr Leung is a Consultant Solicitor of the firm of Iu, Lai &amp; Li, a Notary Public, and a China Appointed Attesting Officer.
Dr Leung has been active in the legal profession and the community at large. She has served as President of the International Federation of Women Lawyers, and on various government boards and committees, including the Independent Police Complaints Council, Social Welfare Advisory Committee and Inland Revenue Board of Review. She was also honorary legal adviser to many non-governmental organisations. Currently, she continues to lend her leadership and counsel to several NGOs.
She was appointed a Delegate of the People’s Congress of Guangdong Province in 1989. In 1993, she was appointed as a Delegate of the 8th National People’s Congress as well as a Hong Kong Affairs Adviser.
She holds honorary degrees from the China University of Political Science &amp; Law, Warwick University, Hong Kong Shue Yan University and the Hong Kong University of Science &amp; Technology. Dr Leung was awarded the Grand Bauhinia Medal in 2002.
In recognition of her contributions to the law and society, the University has resolved to confer upon her the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.


Dr the Honourable Lui Che Woo
LUI Che Woo
Dr the Honourable Lui Che Woo is a distinguished entrepreneur, philanthropist and an avid supporter of education in Hong Kong.
Dr Lui was born in Jiangmen, Guangdong and founded the first K. Wah company in Hong Kong in 1955. He is currently Chairman of K. Wah Group. Its major member companies include two Hong Kong listed flagships K. Wah International Holdings Limited and Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited, Stanford Hotels International and K. Wah Construction Materials Limited. Today, K. Wah has developed into a multinational conglomerate involving properties, entertainment and leisure, hospitality, and construction materials with more than 33,000 employees worldwide.
In 2015, Dr Lui established the LUI Che Woo Prize – Prize for World Civilisation in Hong Kong. It is the first of its kind annual cross-sector international prize honouring and recognising individuals or organisations who have unconditionally promoted world civilisation through sustainable development, contributed to the welfare of mankind and fostered a positive life attitude and the enhancement of positive energy.
Dr Lui has been particularly supportive of the development of medical care, education and hotel and tourism industries. He has been supportive of HKU’s endeavours as a Founding Honorary President of the HKU Foundation. The Lui Che Woo Law Library was named in his honour in 1997; an extended Law Library was later set up at the Centennial Campus in 2010 with Dr Lui’s support. He was awarded an Honorary University Fellowship in 2002.
Dr Lui has also generously supported academic research and campus development at many other universities, and has been conferred honorary degrees by the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, as well as Concordia University and the University of Victoria in Canada.
Dr Lui has dedicated himself to community affairs and has contributed extensively to Hong Kong. He was made an MBE in 1982, appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1986, awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2005 and the Grand Bauhinia Medal in 2012.
In recognition of his contributions to higher education and society, the University has resolved to confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.

The 195th Congregation:
Date: March 15, 2016 (Tuesday)
Time: 5:30pm
Venue: Loke Yew Hall, HKU
Note: Photographers are reminded to bring their long lenses and not to use flashlight in Loke Yew Hall
For more details about the congregation, please visit: http://www4.hku.hk/hongrads/
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
