[title]Celebrating HKU MBA's No. 1 Ranking in AsiaPartnership with London Business School Scales New Heights[/title]
[date]29 Nov 2005[/date]
 
To celebrate HKU MBA programme's No. 1 ranking in Asia and Australasia as well as to launch its MBA programme in partnership with London Business School, a ceremony was held today at HKU. 
According to the 2005 ranking of world MBA programmes conducted by Economist Intelligence Unit, HKU is the only university from Hong Kong and Asia that makes the top 50 on the list, ranking 45th in the world and 1st in Asia and Australasia. 
Under a new collaborative agreement, HKU launched its MBA programme in partnership with London Business School which ranks 5th in the world, according to Financial Time's 2005 ranking of world MBA programmes. 
This MBA partnership arrangement is unique and believed to be the first of its kind, with HKU as the first and only partnering institution of London Business School. It will enable all HKU full time MBA students to study in London Business School for 3 months with full student status in all aspects of learning and campus life. Students will be issued London Business School certificate and be awarded life-long alumni status as a member of the around-the-globe London Business School alumni network. The programme will start in July 2006 and places are expected to be about 40 in the first year. 
The programme focuses on business opportunities in China with an international perspective. International students from over 10 countries in the world will complete an intensive full-time MBA programme across London, Hong Kong and China, at durations of 3 months, 9 months and 3 weeks respectively. 
HKU Vice Chancellor Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui expressed delight as he gave a warm welcome at the ceremony, "this collaboration is a spectacular achievement, the Faculty of Business and Economics is a faculty that continues to make progress and makes us proud with their world-class business education". 
As officiating guest of the ceremony, Dr. the Hon. David Li said, "all the students in this programme will gain a unique understanding of Asian and international business practices, benefiting greatly from the rich and stimulating learning environment that is offered by the London Business School". 
HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor Prof. Y.C. Richard Wong who is also Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics was also pleased with this partnership when he said "it will help Hong Kong develop competitiveness in finance and businesses that HK needs as an increasingly important finance and economic centre in the world. Partnership with London Business School is a natural choice for us and we are very excited about this opportunity. Our MBA students will be integrated fully into the global alumni network of London Business School, which will make a huge difference in their future careers". 
London Business School's Associate Dean &amp; MBA programme director Ms. Julia Tyler said "we want to develop a stronger knowledge of and presence in Asia, and we want to learn and decide how we can best contribute to the development in Asia. The partnership with HKU presents an attractive opportunity to us because of HKU's depth of knowledge and connection in the region, and its MBA school is energetic, entrepreneurial and share our commitment to quality and vigour." "We are delighted that London Business School is able to partner Hong Kong University in this innovative venture", Ms. Julia Tyler quoted Laura Tyson, the Dean of London Business School. 
Ms. Ruth Gee, Director, British Council Hong Kong said "quality business education is important to a business centre like HK, which is well-positioned to train future business leaders in Greater China and the region. This collaboration will result in closer ties between the two cities on social, cultural as well as academic terms". 
Various prominent guests attended the ceremony, together with London Business School alumni representatives, Consul-Generals and international MBA students. 
For details of the HKU MBA Programme in partnership with London Business School and HKU's ranking, please visit http://www.mba.hku.hk .
For enquiries please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer HKU on 2859 2606.

