[title]HKU International Student Admissions 2011[/title]
[date]06 Oct 2011[/date]
 
HKU has again had a remarkable undergraduate admissions record in 2011. Over 42,500 students applied for undergraduate studies at the University, with over half of these coming from outside the JUPAS system.
Living up to its reputation as an international campus, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is pleased to announce this year's outstanding intake of international undergraduates. The steady influx of international students, or non-JUPAS, non-Mainland students, is a reflection of Hong Kong as an international part of the world. This year, students of 33 different nationalities joined the undergraduate population, while applicants represented a remarkable 73 nationalities. Admitting students from Mongolia to Belgium, Ecuador and Kazakhstan, the university truly welcomes students from all corners of the world, with about 80 different nationalities now represented on campus. Not surprisingly, the interest in HKU continues to develop, resulting in a notable increase in international applications to HKU. This year, the international application numbers increased from 2010 by 29%. In some cases, depending on the recruitment efforts I n those countries, the figures are much higher. For India, where HKU opened an office this year, applications went up by 76%, while both Malaysians and Korean increased by over 50% compared with 2010.
The admission process is very selective and the quality of the applicants continues to rise. Professor John Spinks, Chairman of the University Admission Committee, remarked that, "While the academic standard of the applicants has been truly outstanding this year, we are only able to enroll less than 1 student for every 12 applications, because of the UGC restrictions. The up-side of this is that the students who are selected for admission to HKU are academically very talented." HKU admitted 5 students from Daewon Foreign Language High School this year, one of the most outstanding schools in Korea. Their SAT scores averaged 2300 (out of a maximum 2400), a particularly outstanding achievement given that they studied English as a second language. This year's group enrolled into 17 different degree programmes with Business &amp; Economics, Engineering and Social Sciences being the most popular.
(While for international applicants, the enrolment rate was about 1 student for every 12 applications, this may be compared with 1 out of every 10 applicants for local non-JUPAS admissions.)
Facts and statistics are a limited measure of how a diverse student body enhances the university. The international students' personal experience best indicate why HKU wishes to celebrate its diverse student body.
Take, for instance, Miss Varvara Bortsova, a Russian student admitted to our Bachelor of Journalism programme. Prior to her enrollment at HKU, Miss Bortsova spent 3 years dancing in a professional ballet company. During her time as a dancer, she toured various parts of the world including Asia. When asked why she decided to make such a change in her life, Varvara explained that, in spite of her success as a ballerina, she felt the need for a change. Realizing the potential time-limit on her career as a dancer, Varvara wanted to return to her studies. She applied to schools in several countries, including the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, but decided to choose The University of Hong Kong because it presented a challenge and an exciting change of environment. Miss Bortsova's story demonstrates her unique characteristics of discipline, dedication and the bravery required to seek change in one's life. It is precisely these attributes that make her a good fit for the HKU student body.
Consider also Mr. Johannes Hoerning, a German student in the Bachelor of Arts programme. Johannes commenced his studies after spending time in France and Germany. Having worked as an assistant to a director in Germany, Johannes opened up his own art gallery in Paris from 2009 to 2010. Despite having collaborated with renowned artists and curators during this time, Johannes decided to continue his higher education and go abroad. With his immense knowledge of business practices and the art world, Johannes had many options to choose from, including institutions as notable as Columbia University in the heart of New York City. Mr. Hoerning's love for art and philosophy led him, however, to HKU. Having visited Hong Kong several times, Mr. Hoerning found the place well-suited to his personality.
These testimonials are not exceptions, but reflect the diversity and talent in the backgrounds of our students. Coming to HKU from abroad is a choice, the fulfillment of a goal, not a matter of luck or chance. Each of the incoming international students can demonstrate their on unique qualities and achievements. As they continue to flourish at HKU, the university remains committed to international recruitment.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


 
Professor John Spinks, Chairman of the University Admission Committee, Mr. Johannes Hoerning and Miss Varvara Bortsova
 
Mr. Johannes Hoerning and Miss Varvara Bortsova
 
Miss Varvara Bortsova



