[title]"Pianist Jean-Efflam Bavouzet – In Concert &amp; In Conversation" at HKU[/title]
[date]11 May 2009[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is pleased to announce that the award-winning French Pianist Jean Efflam Bavouzet will be visiting HKU later this month.
He will give a short recital and share his performance experience with the University's faculty and students, secondary schools students and classical music lovers.
Limited seats are available for the public. Free Admission
For enquiries, please contact School of Humanities, HKU (Tel: 2219 4186)
Bavouzet was awarded "Instrumental Recital of the Year 2008" at the Classical Elites Beijing (CEBJ), for his complete Beethoven Piano Sonata cycle performed on the stage of the Forbidden City Concert Hall (Beijing, China). Recently, he is the winner of the 2009 BBC Music Magazine Award for his cycle of Debussy's Complete Works for Piano (Vol. III).
Come and join us for this special evening with Bavouzet!
Details of the event are as follows:
Date: 18 May 2009 (Monday)
Time: 7:00 pm
Venue: Theatre 2-4, William MW Mong Block, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 21 Sassoon Road, Pokfulam
Moderator: Professor Daniel Chua, Head, School of Humanities, HKU
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media) (Tel: 2859 2600/ Email: hkumedia@hku.hk  or Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Faculty of Arts, HKU (Tel: 2859 8048 /email: kpmak@hku.hk )
About Jean Efflam Bavouzet
French pianist Jean-Efflam Bavouzet combines a rare elegance and clarity in his playing with deep and thoughtful musicality. His insatiable enthusiasm and artistic curiosity has led him to explore a repertoire ranging from Haydn, Beethoven, Bartok and Prokofiev to contemporary works by composers such as Bruno Mantovani and Jörg Widmann.
Recent engagements have included appearances with the Orchestra National de France under Daniele Gatti, the Deutsches Sinfonie Orchester Berlin, and with the BBC Symphony Orchestra and Pierre Boulez. Upcoming highlights include the Cleveland Orchestra under Vladimir Ashkenazy as well as the London Symphony Orchestra under Valery Gergiev.
Mr Bavouzet is a regular at London's Wigmore Hall, as well as at the La Roque d'Antheron Festival in France.
