[title]Review Panel set to examine key issues of University event arrangements[/title]
[date]07 Sep 2011[/date]
 
The University today (September 7) announced the membership of a Review Panel set up by the Council to review issues arising from the Centenary Ceremony on August 18, 2011. 
Mr Lester Garson Huang was appointed by the Council as the Convenor of the Panel. Members of the Panel have been drawn from the HKU community. They are: 
Student
 - Mr Zhang Yi, nominated by the Postgraduate Students Association (PGSA) 
Staff 
 - Professor Cecilia L.W. Chan, Si Yuan Professor in Health and Social work, Faculty of Social Sciences
 - Professor Johannes M. M. Chan SC (Hon), Dean of Faculty of Law 
Alumni
 - Mr Simon Fung Shing-cheung (BSocSc 1978)
 - Mr Patrick C S Wong (BEng 1998), HKUSU President, 1997 
Council members
 - Mr Stephen Cheung Pok-yin, a full-time non-teaching staff of the University elected to the Council in accordance with regulations
 - Mr Man Cheuk Fei, a lay Council member elected by the Court 
Mr Lester Huang, Convenor of the Panel said: "We have invited the HKU Students' Union to nominate an undergraduate student to join the Panel, but regrettably, we have not received a positive response up to now and have indeed renewed our invitation today. In any event, we will strive to maintain a close dialogue with the Students' Union in the course of the review to ensure that students' views are heard." 
The Panel was set up by the Council on August 30 in response to the widespread interest and concern among members of the University and the public regarding the various arrangements of the Ceremony on August 18, which Vice-Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council attended. 
It will make recommendations to the Council on improving arrangements and establishing appropriate mechanisms and policies for University events in the future, to ensure that HKU will continue its commitment to freedom, liberty and diversity and will always remain a place for freedom of expression. 
Mr Huang said that he planned to hold the first panel meeting within a week. 
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 

