[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No. 1 in Asia By The Economist [/title]
[date]05 Oct 2012[/date]
 
(October 5, 2012, Hong Kong) In the latest World MBA Rankings released by The Economist today, HKU’s MBA Programme is again ranked No. 1 in Asia for the third consecutive year since 2010; the programme is also ranked No. 41 in the world.
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong, said, “Being the best in Asia and one of the top programmes in the world, HKU MBA is dedicated to providing first-class business education to leaders that target career advancement, career switch and individual enrichment.  We do not only offer the right business knowledge but also the exposure, network and soft skills enhancement essential for professional and personal development.  We believe our MBA students and alumni will translate the skills and knowledge they have acquired at HKU into practices that bring positive influence to the business world.”
Dr. Maurice Tse, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, remarked, “business schools and the business community are strategic partners as corporations look at MBA programmes to provide the talent pool critical to future growth and sustained success. At HKU MBA, we help students connect with the markets and also market themselves.  Therefore, we continuously introduce new elements to the Programme, such as the Business Lab, that bring in up-to-date practical skill sets and academic knowledge relevant to the ever-changing business world.  We feel encouraged by the recognition from the international and regional communities.”
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Executive Director of HKU’s MBA Programme, added, “We highly value interaction between alumni and students that make the Programme more competitive and more conducive to knowledge and experience exchange.  We have launched the Mentorship Programme to connect students with seasoned graduates and we have helped establish regional alumni chapters to strengthen their networks.  Developing business contacts and personal networks are integral parts of the MBA experience, these value-added components will further our students’ advancement beyond intellectual growth.”
The HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale into week-end mode and China track, with strong demands from China, Asia, as well as Europe and North America.  Its career services include career counselling and coaching as well as job placement tailor-made to fit the career goals, aspirations and directions of different students.
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
 Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
 Personal development and educational experience
 Increase salary
 Potential to network
For media enquiries, please contact:
Helen Wong
Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 2219 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
About Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
Founded in 2001 through the amalgamation of the School of Business and the School of Economics and Finance, the Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) offers quality degree programmes and executive training programmes that serve the needs of the business sector and the community.
As Asia’s premier international business school, the Faculty has pioneered the International MBA Programme with Fudan University in Shanghai in 1998, and the EMBA Global Asia jointly offered with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS) in 2008.
Its MBA full time programme, offered in partnerships with CBS and LBS has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia’s no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
The Faculty continues to attract top students from Hong Kong and beyond.  It admits the highest proportion of non-local undergraduate students amongst all the 10 Faculties. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University’s top 10 programmes. 
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS).  Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).  For more information, please visit: www.fbe.hku.hk 
