[title]HKU appoints new Dean of Dentistry[/title]
[date]15 Dec 2013[/date]
 
Professor Thomas Flemmig
The Council of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has appointed Professor Thomas Flemmig as the next Dean of Dentistry for a term of five years from 1 July 2014, to succeed Professor Lakshman Samaranayake. The appointment was made after a worldwide search that started on September 6, 2012.
Professor Flemmig is currently Professor in the Department of Periodontics, School of Dentistry of the University of Washington, U.S.A.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui is delighted with the appointment. He said: “Professor Flemmig is a highly accomplished scholar of international standing and a renowned periodontist. He possesses rich experience in working with government agencies and professional organizations.”
“With this combination of academic achievements, management experience and communication skills, we have high hopes that the Faculty will continue to excel in research, education and dental care under his leadership,” added Professor Tsui.
Professor Samaranayake will retire from the Deanship at the end of the year after a 10-year tenure and a total of 22 years at the HKU Faculty of Dentistry. Professor Tsui thanked Professor Samaranayake for his term in office. He said: “I wish to take this opportunity to thank him profusely for his loyal and excellent service, steadfast support and outstanding contributions to both the Faculty and the University for more than two decades.”
Professor Edward CM Lo will be the interim Dean of Dentistry from January 1, 2014 until the arrival of Professor Flemmig.
Professor Thomas Flemmig
Professor Flemmig is currently Professor in the Department of Periodontics, School of Dentistry of the University of Washington. He was the first dentist to become a member of the Medical Committee of the German Council of Science and Humanities, and participated in the evaluation and development of strategic recommendations for dental and medical faculties and academic medical centres. He has also served as an officer on the Board of the German Society of Periodontology and the Association of Dental Educators, and has been a member of 29 professional associations in Europe and the U.S.A. In terms of academic management experience, he has held positions as Chairman of the Department of Periodontology at the University of Wurzburg, and the University of Munster, Germany, and the University of Washington, and as director of a periodontal specialty clinic and of undergraduate and residency programmes in periodontology. Working extensively with industry, Professor Flemmig has completed 17 industry-funded research projects, and is the inventor of 7 patents.
For more information about the HKU Faculty of Dentistry, please visit http://facdent.hku.hk; Facebook page: www.facebook.com/facdent
Media enquiries:
Mr Oi-sing AU, Communications and Development Officer, HKU Faculty of Dentistry; Tel: 9030 9290; Email: singau@hku.hk


