[title]HKU Council Accepts Recommendations of the Committee of Enquiry on Private Patient Billing Arrangement[/title]
[date]11 Jul 2007[/date]
 
In its meeting today (July 11, 2007) , the Council has received the report submitted by the Committee of Enquiry (CoE) which was set up to investigate billing arrangement in respect of private patients of a clinical department of The University of Hong Kong.
The Council made the following decisions at the meeting:
(a)        the Council endorsed the action taken by the Committee in respect of the case involving an individual - which is reporting the matter to an appropriate law enforcement authority;
(b)       the Council accepted the findings in the report, and saw the need for immediate actions to improve the various aspects of the existing systems referred to in the Report.  The Council asked the setting up of a relevant working group to work together with the Hospital Authority and other relevant parties, for making recommendations to the Council on improvements needed;
(c)        the Council invited the University's Audit Committee to look at the procedures and systems in the Medical Faculty with a view to helping the Faculty to identify areas where improvements can be made; and
(d)       the Council agreed, in view of the possible public interest in the findings of the Committee of Enquiry, that the report be made public. 
Council Chairman Dr. Victor Fung said at a press briefing after the Council meeting, "While some aspects of the existing practices and systems in the Medical Faculty should be reviewed and enhanced as necessary, the immense contributions of the Faculty to society should be recognized."
"We see the setting up of the working group an opportunity for us to move ahead with time," said Dr Fung.
Chairman of the Committee of Enquiry Dr. C. H. Leong outlined the recommendations in the report.  They include:
(a)        the need for a proper mechanism to make sure that there is proper record in respect of each patient, and that the medical record and the billing record tally with each other;
(b)       the need for across-the-board regulations/guidelines on fee waiving;
(c)        the need for the University to take step to make sure that its existing system for its staff members to declare possible conflict of interest works effectively; and
(d)       the need for more transparency at the department level in respect of dealing with the income generated from private patient services at departmental level.
To view the full report, please visit : http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/report.pdf
To view the executive summary, please visit : http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/summary-eng.pdf
