[title]HKU’s WAY Project --- “Stories of Aberdeen Fishing Folks” Exhibition to showcase the changing lifestyles and culture of fishing folks[/title]
[date]09 Jun 2015[/date]
 

Dr Albert Ko, Head of the Student Development Programme, CEDARS, introduces HKU’s “WAY Project --- Stories of Aberdeen Fishing Folks” Exhibition which showcases the lived experiences of the fishing community in Aberdeen.

Aberdeen has the richest history among all locations in the Southern District.  The history of fisheries and fishing communities in Aberdeen are invaluable cultural treasures. The lived experiences of the fishing community in Aberdeen are now showcased in the “Stories of Aberdeen Fishing Folks Exhibition” at the Postgraduate Hub (Rome Café), Graduate House, the University of Hong Kong (HKU).  A press briefing was held today to introduce the exhibition. 
Hong Kong grew from being a fishing village into a metropolis, but few of us know much about this early episode of Hong Kong’s history.  To explore the way lifestyles and the culture of fishing have changed, HKU’s We Are With You Project (the WAY Project) has recorded the oral histories of fishing folks in Aberdeen about their lifestyles and culture.  The lived experiences of the fishing community in Aberdeen are also showcased through old photos, comics and innovative visual design.  This free exhibition is organized by the WAY Project, sponsored by the Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation and supported by the HKU Graduate House.
To tie in with the exhibition, more activities related to the lifestyles and culture of the fishing community in Hong Kong will be organized this summer, including guided tours for schools and organizations in the Southern District as well as the general public. The history and culture of populations living on the water in Aberdeen will be introduced to participants through interesting and interactive activities.
Details of the Exhibition
Opening hours: 10:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m., Mondays – Saturdays
                              (closed on Sundays and public holidays)
Venue: Postgraduate Hub (Rome Café), Level P3, Graduate House, 3 University Drive, HKU (Map)
Enquiries: 2857 8387 / cedars-programmes@hku.hk
Fees: Free admission
Guided Tours for the Fisherfolks’ Lifestyle and Culture
Target participants: General public
Date: 9 August 2015 (Sunday)
Time: 10:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. (Session 1)/ 2:00 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. (Session 2)
Features:
Sampan tours in Aberdeen
Storytelling by fishermen
Visit to historical sites in Aberdeen and Ap Lei Chau
Tour guides: Aberdeen fishermen and HKU students
Language: Cantonese
Fees: Free admission
Quota: 20 for each session on a first-come-first-served basis
Registration and enquiries: http://goo.gl/UJkCaV (Chinese only)
For photos of the project, please click here to download.
About We Are With You Project
In 2012, the Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation donated $10M to the University of Hong Kong to implement the We Are With You Project, which was launched in the academic year of 2013-14.  The WAY Project is a four-year community-based social capital development project in the Southern District.  Its objective is to build a district-based community network to empower the community to accumulate social capital and improve social mobility.  The project emphasizes the mobilization and exchange of resources among different social groups in the Southern District to achieve mutual benefit.  HKU students and staff will contribute to improve the condition of the less privileged and empower them to improve their own conditions in the long run.  The ultimate goal is to develop a replicable model for social capital development, particularly with the involvement of staff and students of tertiary institutions. 
Media enquiries
Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office:
Ms Rhea Leung (Tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446; Email: rhea.leung@hku.hk)  
Ms Julie Chu (Tel: 2859 2437 / 9354 3898; Email: juliechu@hku.hk) or
Centre of Development and Resources for Students:
Ms Carol Yuen (Tel: 2219 4861; Email: carolyky@hku.hk)
