[title]HKU MBA Programme Partnership With Columbia Business School[/title]
[date]06 Mar 2006[/date]
 
Up to 40 University of Hong Kong MBA Students to Study at Columbia Each Year
The University of Hong Kong and Columbia Business School today announced a partnership between the two schools that will enable up to 40 University of Hong Kong MBA students per year to study at Columbia Business School for a full semester. The program will begin with the 2007-2008 academic year when up to 20 students would go to study at Columbia. It is expected that the number would go up to 40 as the program grows.
The Signing Ceremony took place in Marriott Hotel, Hong Kong. The ceremony was well attended by prominent guests, including Mr. Christopher Cheng who gave a note of congratulations, Mr. Thomas Kowk and Mr. Thomas KY Chan, Dr. John E. Strickland, Mr. Nicholas Brooke and Ms. Mable Chan among others.
"The collaboration with Columbia Business School signifies another milestone in our efforts to help our students acquire the best business education in the financial centers of the world – Hong Kong, Shanghai, London, and now New York," said Professor Y.C. Richard Wong, Dean of Business and Economics at the University of Hong Kong. "Students in our MBA program study in the leading centers of the world of business and finance."
"Columbia Business School recognizes that as the Chinese economy continues to grow, it is vital that up-and-coming Chinese business leaders from the region are exposed to cutting-edge ideas in business research and practice," said R. Glenn Hubbard, Dean of Columbia Business School. "The students will be able to bring back to their homelands innovative ideas that will help shape the way business is practiced in Asia."
Upon completion of their core courses at the University of Hong Kong, the students will be eligible to spend the semester taking four elective courses side-by-side with Columbia MBA students, with access to Columbia Business School's distinguished student, alumni and corporate networks as they participate in Columbia events, hear from illustrious business leaders as part of the School's famed speaker series, and visit with leading firms located in New York City. Columbia Business School will issue a certificate to the participating students upon successful completion of the courses The University of Hong Kong MBA program will draw students from the Asia-Pacific region, particularly from mainland China, who are primarily interested in pursuing their careers in the region.
About the University of Hong Kong
The Faculty of Business and Economics at The University of Hong Kong aims to establish a prominent regional and international presence by training future leaders who make a difference and to pioneer research that addresses global challenges and significant issues in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition to the MBA program delivered in both Hong Kong and Shanghai, it offers a broad-based undergraduate education in business and economics, as well as a Ph.D., a Master of Finance and a Master of Economics program. A premier provider of business education, the Faculty of Business and Economics was ranked in 2005 as the top MBA school in Asia and Australia by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), an affiliate of The Economist.
About Columbia Business School
Widely admired for its global and cutting-edge curriculum, Columbia Business School is one of the leading business schools in the world. In addition to its renowned MBA program, Columbia Business School offers the prestigious Executive MBA (EMBA) and non-degree Executive Education programs. The School's faculty is comprised of internationally respected professors and includes Joseph Stiglitz, who won the Nobel Prize in economics in 2001 and was the chair for President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers from 1995 to 1997.
Columbia MBAs excel in academics, are global in their focus, and demonstrate leadership across industries. Thousands of Columbia Business School alumni span the globe and include Warren Buffett '51, Chairman, Berkshire Hathaway; Henry Kravis '69, Founding Partner, Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts &amp; Co.; Michael Gould '68, Chairman and CEO, Bloomingdales; and Rochelle Lazarus '70, Chairman and CEO, Ogilvy &amp; Mather Worldwide.

