[title]HKU appoints next Dean of Science[/title]
[date]27 Jan 2016[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has at its meeting on January 26 (Tuesday) approved the appointment of Professor Matthew Evans as the next Dean of the Faculty of Science, for a term of five years.
Professor Evans is currently the Head of School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, and Professor of Ecology, at the Queen Mary University of London. His appointment was made after a worldwide search of candidates. Professor Evans is a highly accomplished scholar specialised in ecology, evolutionary biology, and conservation biology. He possesses a track record of significant senior leadership experience at University of Exeter and Queen Mary University of London, where he held several Headship and Provost (of a campus) roles, and has proved himself a dedicated and successful administrator.
HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson was pleased with the appointment. He said: "Professor Evans is a communicative leader with strong problem-solving skills, and a bold reformer with the ability to build capability and academic excellence.
“With his excellent leadership, interpersonal, communication and team-building skills, I trust that he has the right set of attributes for the position of the Dean of Science, and will be able to take the Faculty of Science to a higher level and to lead the Faculty to excel academically both in the region and globally.” 
Professor Mathieson also thanked the current Dean of the Faculty of Science, Professor Sun Kwok for his leadership and great contributions in bringing the Faculty of Science forward during his deanship. Professor Kwok will step down from the deanship appointment with effect from February 1, 2016. He will remain in service as Professor: Chair of Space Science, and will lead the establishment and development of a new centre for space research at the Faculty.
The Council has also approved the appointment of Associate Dean of Science Professor Pauline Chiu as interim Dean of Science from February 1, 2016 until the arrival of Professor Evans.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
