[title]HKU admits over 300 top students from the Mainland[/title]
[date]10 Jul 2012[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has concluded its Mainland admissions exercise. A record number of 12,438 applications were received for its undergraduate programme in 2012/13. The number is 2,076 more than last year.
A total of 363 top scorers who attained outstanding results in the Mainland’s National Higher Education Entrance Examination and who excelled in a variety of ways were admitted.
Among the students admitted, 21 are top scorers (zhuangyuans) at provincial and city levels. The total number of zhuangyuans admitted is four more than last year. Ten zhuangyuans are at the provincial level from Liaoning, Shanghai, Gansu, Hainan, Hunan, Jiangsu and Yunnan respectively; and 11 are at the city level. Moreover, there are top scorers in single subjects, including six in Mathematics who attained full marks, at 150. The highest score in English was 149.
In addition to outstanding academic achievements, a number of the successful applicants are also talented in other areas, such as piano, dancing and choreography.  Over 40 of them have been awarded first prizes in their respective provinces in national competitions, while two are national athletes.
This year, the University has partnered with the University of Cambridge for the first time to jointly admit 14 students from the Mainland for studies in Engineering. They will study at the HKU Faculty of Engineering for a year. Qualified students will then continue to study at Cambridge.
With the implementation of a four-year university education system in Hong Kong, students admitted are no longer required to spend one year in university in the Mainland before they study here. A new buddy scheme to pair up each Mainland student with a senior student will be introduced to help the students adapt to university life when they join HKU this summer.
Scholarships of up to HK$160,000 will be offered to the students. The amount will cover programme fees (HK$119,000 a year), hostel fee (over HK$10,000 a year) and other basic living expenses.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
