[title]HKU Master of Urban Design students and staff win the
Grand Winning Entry and Shortlisted Entry of the Kai Tak Fantasy International Ideas Competition
[/title]
[date]27 Nov 2014[/date]
 


The Grand Winning Entry:  Health Lift Off
Photo Courtesy:  Energizing Kowloon East Office (EKEO) of the Development Bureau

Two teams of the Master of Urban Design (MUD) students and staff of the Department of Urban Planning and Design, the University of Hong Kong, won the Grand Winning Entry and Shortlisted Entry respectively of the Kai Tak Fantasy International Ideas Competition organized by the Energizing Kowloon East Office (EKEO) of the Development Bureau that aims to transform the former airport site into a creational landmark.
The results were announced at the Award Ceremony on November 14, 2014 with the awards presented by Mr Paul Chan, Secretary for Development and Head Juror of the Competition. The competition is a two-stage international ideas competition open for qualified overseas and local planners, urban designers, architects, engineers, landscape architects and surveyors. Entries submitted in Stage 1 were shortlisted for further development in Stage 2. Two of HKU MUD’s teams were amongst the four shortlisted teams for the final entry and one of the teams won the Grand Winning Entry, the first prize.
The Grand Winning Entry, Healthy Lift Off, is from the team that is consisted of Md Masudul Islam (Team Leader), Chen Ziyi, Li Jiayi, Li Ling Pei, Natalia Echeverri (Teaching Staff), Wang Yali, and Wu Yi Fei.  The Jury considered that the Winning Entry will give the former airport a unique identity, connecting it with the neighbourhood while innovatively keeping the water clean using natural wetland and tidal flushing.

The other MUD team that won the Shortlisted Entry is consisted of Casey Wang Nai Huei (Team Leader and Teaching Staff), Dong Wanjun, Jin Yini, Ma Xiaoli, Qian Ming, and Wu Chenjue. Their entry was entitled Waterland, Wonderland! Floating Configurations for the Memory of Space.


Photo Courtesy:  Energizing Kowloon East Office (EKEO) of the Development Bureau


