[title]HKU holds the 185th Congregation[/title]
[date]29 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The 185th Congregation of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) was held today (November 29) at the Asia World Expo to confer degrees on a total of 7,406 graduands this year.
This year, 381 of the graduands are at the doctoral level, 3,568 are at the master level and 3,457 are at the bachelor level.
HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po presided over the Congregation. The Honourable Anna Wu Hung Yuk was the Guest of Honour.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui congratulated the graduates on behalf of the University.
"You now stand with over 140,000 graduates who have gone on to serve their community with the knowledge and leadership education received from this First and Foremost University."
Professor Tsui said it has been particularly special for them to graduate in a year when the University is celebrating its Centenary. He encouraged the graduates to have confidence and stand tall.
He said: "You are now equipped with the best university education you can get in Hong Kong, and I am confident that you will be able to compete and excel, as well as to serve and contribute, in whatever challenges or opportunities that come your way.
You will face many challenges ahead. As the humanities evolve and technologies advance, the world is getting more and more complex and competitive by the day. You may fall but you will stand up again. I hope that you will all be true to yourselves, uphold your moral principles and personal integrity, and, act as true leaders of society."
The Guest of Honour Ms Anna Wu shared the joy with the graduates at the ceremony.
She said: "Today is your day and you will go down in history as the graduates of the centennial year of the University of Hong Kong. It will be another 100 years before this honour can be claimed by anyone else."
Ms Wu added that this year is also the 100th anniversary of the Xinhai Revolution and the International Women's Day, and the confluence of these anniversaries is of symbolic significance to her.
"People in the east and west both want the same things - equal rights for all, and the ability to shape one's future." Ms Wu reminded the graduates the values they share, that the University is built on the bedrock of meritocracy, equality and diversity."
"The University of Hong Kong is a living monument of history, tradition and the values of education and it wove a unique social fabric rich in contrasting values and in the diversity of its people and of ideas from both the east and the west."
"We share a common past and these values have defined us and made us who we are and what we are. We share a common future, the success of which depends on how well we shape it with these values. We have to make these values matter to all of us."
Ms Wu is currently a member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Chairperson of the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority, and a member of the Law Reform Commission. She was a member of the Legislative Council from 1993 to 1995, during which time she initiated the Equal Opportunities Bill, the first Private Member's Bill dealing comprehensively with all forms of discrimination. From 1999 to 2003, she was the Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui's Address:
http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/111129vc_e.pdf
The Honourable Anna Wu Hung Yuk's Address:
http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media//111129wu_e.pdf
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 


 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui congratulates the graduates
 
The Guest of Honour Ms Anna Wu
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation
 
HKU holds the 185th Congregation



