[title]Donation from Fong's Industries Co., Ltd. - Supports HKU's Applied Research in Mechanical Engineering[/title]
[date]17 Jan 2008[/date]
 


Picture 1

Fong's Industries Co., Ltd. made a donation of HK$15 million to The University of Hong Kong ("HKU") in support of the University's applied research in advanced machineries. 
HK$7 million of the donation has contributed to the establishment of the Fong's Research Centre for Advanced Mechanical Systems ("FRCAMS") and HK$8 million will sponsor the identified research areas of projects of the FRCAMS. 
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony of the Fong's Research Centre for Advanced Mechanical Systems today (January 17), Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, the Vice-Chancellor of The University of Hong Kong expressed gratitude to the donor for his generosity. "I am extremely grateful to Mr. Fong Sou Lam, the Chairman of Fong's Industries Co., Ltd., for his long-term support," said Professor Tsui. 
"The close relationship between HKU and Fong's Industries Co., Ltd. over the years is a successful example of university-industry partnership. We look forward to fostering such partnership with various parties in the industry." 
"It is HKU's mission to pursue excellence in teaching and research. The setting up of the Fong's Research Centre has helped the University in realizing our mission. On one hand, the applied research achievements of the Centre will benefit the society as a whole. On the other hand, it will help nurture more research talents in mechanical engineering," said Professor Tsui. 
Mr. Bill Fong, Executive Director of Fong's Industries Co., Ltd., said "On behalf of Fong's Industries Co., Ltd., it is an honor for us to make this donation and collaboration with such a prestigious and dynamic University. It is our hope that with the establishment of Fong's Research Center for Advanced Mechanical Systems, innovative research and applications can be conducted to benefit a number of industries. " 
"We are seeing great demand from our customers for more environment-friendly solutions for the industry. In order to maintain a leading position, we must provide innovative products and solutions to our customers. Due to ever rising costs of various commodities from energy to base metals and to water, by being an "environmentally conscious company" also means being a profitable company. We are confident that this Center will produce meaningful solution for the industries in Hong Kong, China and throughout Asia; and can contribute towards the future strategic development of this Great University," Mr. Bill Fong added. 
Founded by Mr. Fong Sou Lam in 1963, the Group has focused on its principal business of design, manufacture and sale of dyeing and finishing machinery with strategic business divisions of stainless steel trading and casting. Today, Fong's Group is the world's leading dyeing and finishing machinery supplier. 
Since 1990, Fong's has been sponsoring industrial design projects for HKU's final year undergraduate students of Mechanical Engineering. Starting from 2003, the "Fong's Scholarship and Project Prize" award is also granted annually to the Department, which has benefited over 60 students up till now. 
Fong's Research Centre for Advanced Mechanical Systems is a successful example of the partnership between the University and the industry. The Centre will take a leading role in exploring, promoting and conducting applied research for water treatment, dyeing, steelwork and associated manufacturing industries in local and the Asia-Pacific Region. 
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Polo Leung of The University of Hong Kong at 2241 5677. 
Picture: Mr. Fong Sou Lam, the Chairman of Fong's Industries Co., Ltd., (left) presents the cheque of a donation of HK$15 million to HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui. 

