[title]NATIONAL SECURITY AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS Hong Kong's Article 23 Under Scrutiny[/title]
[date]18 Apr 2005[/date]
 
Edited by Fu Hualing, Carole J. Petersen and Simon N.M. Young
A new book, National Security and Fundamental Freedoms: Hong Kong's Article 23 Under Scrutiny, from the Hong Kong University Press recalls there has been intense interest in the proposals to implement Article 23, both in Hong Kong and abroad.
In 2003 more than 500,000 people marched in Hong Kong against the National Security (Legislative Provisions) Bill, which would have prohibited treason, sedition, secession, and subversion against the national government of China and included new mechanisms for proscribing political organisations.
This edited collection analyses that legislation, particularly the implications for civil liberties and the one country two systems model.Although the massive protest compelled the Hong Kong government to withdraw the Bill from the legislature in 2003, it will likely propose similar legislation in the future because Hong Kong has a constitutional obligation to implement Article 23 of the Basic Law. The book provides detailed and balanced commentary on the Bill, explains why certain proposals proved so controversial, and offers concrete recommendations on how to improve the proposals before the next legislative exercise.
The editors — Fu Hualing, Carole Petersen and Simon Young — are members of the Faculty of Law of the University of Hong Kong.The contributors to this volume include Johannes Chan, Albert H.Y. Chen, D.W. Choy, Richard Cullen, C.B. Fung, Lison Harris, Lin Feng, Ling Bing, Kelley Loper, Lily Ma, Kent Roach, and Doreen Weisenhaus.
"The debate on legislation to ensure the sovereignty and security of the PRC against threats from Hong Kong was a turning point in the Special Administrative Region's political history. It showed that while some Hong Kong residents may have reservations about democracy, human rights are cherished by almost all. It also showed that people can influence policy even without formal institutions of democracy. The authors of this book played a leading role in the debate, clarifying the legal issues, which was critical to an informed debate." Yash Ghai, Sir Y.K. Pao Professor of Public Law, University of Hong Kong.
The book is on sale at major bookstores now.
For enquiries, please contact Miss Winnie Chau at HKU Press (tel: 2550 2703) or Miss Polo Leung at HKU's External Relations Office (tel: 2859 2600).
 
