[title]The Lee Shu Pui Leung Wai Hing Education fund supports new digital media learning initiative[/title]
[date]27 Apr 2009[/date]
 


Picture 1

The Journalism and Media Studies Centre(JMSC) will launch a new digital media learning initiative this year, which will provide multi-media students the opportunity to make extensive journalistic field trips outside Hong Kong supervised by JMSC faculty. Students' work will be published online and on air through links being forged with international news organizations. 
The new program will be supported by a HK$2 million endowment donated by Lee Kam Woon and his wife, Mrs. Lee Shum Shuk Yuen. Announcement of the initiative came at a reception for the Lees hosted by Lap-Chee Tsui, The University of Hong Kong President and Vice-Chancellor, on April 22. 
The Lees' endowment will also underwrite a series of lectures highlighting the latest developments and trends in digital media. The inaugural lecture in this series took place in October 2008 featuring Lawrence Lessig, a professor from Stanford University in the United States and a specialist on law and cyberspace. 
Mr. Lee said at the reception that he and his wife were happy to support Hong Kong education. The money has been donated in honor of Mr. Lee's late parents, Lee Shu Pui and Leung Wai Hing. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lee are members of the family of the late Shum Wai Yau, the founder of the Wah Kiu Yat Po newspaper. The family has previously donated generously to programs and scholarships at the JMSC, including another $2 million given in May 2007 to establish the Shum Wai Yau Journalism Education Fund and the Lee Kam Woon and Shum Shuk Yuen Education Fund, which aim to encourage outstanding students and journalists to study at the JMSC. Another family member, Mr. Shum Choi Sang, donated the funds to renovate what is now the Shum Wai Yau Reading Room at the JMSC. 
JMSC Director Ying Chan said that the digital age has forced journalism education to change direction, and the Lees' donation will provide strong support for the centre's growing selection of digital media study programs. 
For enquiries, please contact Ms.Velentina Ma, Journalism and Media Studies Centre, HKU(Tel: 22194012/91230252) 

