[title]New Double Degree Programmes for New Curriculum Offered by the Faculty of Education, HKU[/title]
[date]18 Oct 2011[/date]
 
The demands on teachers continue to grow in line with societal changes and expectations. Teachers today are required to possess strong subject knowledge, an understanding of different pedagogical approaches and a positive attitude that is able to bring out the potential of every student under their charge.  For decades, HKU's Faculty of Education has produced thousands of high-calibre and committed graduates who have made enormous contributions to the local school system and the wider community.  In order to meet the demands of the new curriculum in 2012, the Faculty of Education will be launching four new double degree programmes in 2012 offered in collaboration with three partner Faculties: Arts, Science and Social Sciences.  They are
JS6066 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education - English
    (jointly offered with Faculty of Arts)
JS6080 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education - Chinese
    (jointly offered with Faculty of Arts)
JS6119 Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Science
    (jointly offered with Faculty of Science)
JS6195 Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Social Sciences
    (jointly offered with Faculty of Social Sciences)
Curriculum Structure 
A 5-year double degree programme requires students to complete 300 credits:
120 credits in Professional Core courses
72 - 96 credits in Major courses in partner Faculties
24 credits in Common Core courses
12 credits in English language courses
6 credits in Chinese language courses
Remaining credits for free electives, which can lead to a minor or even a 2nd major
Features of New Double Degree Programmes 
1. Concrete yet Flexible
Students will be awarded two degrees on graduation with no exit point in 5 years.  They allow students the flexibility to take up to 72 credits each academic year (normative year study load is 60 credits).  These programmes integrate and allow for concurrent studies of Major and Professional Core courses, as well as participation in exchange and experiential programmes over 5 years.  Underpinning the programme are foundational courses which integrate psychology, sociology and pedagogy through the exploration of current educational issues and topics.
2. Wider Range of Courses Offered
Through collaboration with other Faculties viz. Arts, Science and Social Sciences, students taking the double degree programmes are allowed to take a wide range of courses in the Faculty of Education and its partner Faculties. 
3. Comprehensive Teacher Training
Student teachers receive pedagogical input in the form of Pedagogy and Pedagogical Content Knowledge courses which will run parallel to the teaching practicum.  The organization of these courses ensures a progressive and developmental integration of the professional with the academic over the 5-year programme.  The strong school network of the Faculty will facilitate student teachers' professional training.
4. Intensive Training at Primary and Secondary Levels (Language Education - English and Chinese)  
Student teachers on English and Chinese Language Education courses are given equal exposure to primary and secondary teaching contexts. They will study courses in both primary and secondary teaching methodologies, and will receive 19 weeks of structured teaching experience in primary and secondary schools supported by supervisors in the Faculty of Education and mentors in local schools.  Upon graduation, students will be qualified to teach in primary or secondary school.
5. Better Career Prospects for Graduates
With the academic training of various disciplines, these double degree programmes will enable graduates to work in the private and public sectors, in the education field and in a wide range of other professional and academic disciplines.
Specific Features of the 4 Double Degree Programmes
I.  Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education (English)
1. Good Track Record
This programme builds on the success of the existing 4-year Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education (English) and Bachelor of Education in Language Education (Primary English) programmes.  Students' performance is well-recognized by local employers, with almost 100% graduate employment being achieved in recent years.
2.    Exposure to a Wide Range of Electives 
Students will be able to top-up their knowledge base in primary and/or secondary teaching by taking specific pedagogy electives offered by the Faculty of Education such as Literature in English, Multiliteracies, Language across the Curriculum, and Using Drama in Language Teaching.  Students will also be able to pursue more subject knowledge by choosing from a wide range of credit-bearing courses in the Arts Faculty.
II. Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education (Chinese)
1. Intensive Training in Chinese Language
This programme provides students with a solid understanding of the subject matter of Chinese language, literature and culture offered by the School of Chinese under the Faculty of Arts, and up-to-date professional pedagogy in Chinese language by the Faculty of Education.  Students of this programme are given a more integrated education experience in Chinese language education, and are allowed broader career prospects in teaching, publishing, curriculum development in the government and private sectors.
2. Putonghua Proficiency
This programme stresses Putonghua proficiency and pedagogy.  Students will have a Putonghua course and Putonghua Immersion Programme and School Attachment Scheme in Beijing, and a course in Putonghua as Medium of Instruction.  All these arrangements help equip students to teach Chinese through the medium of Putonghua.  
3. Capable of Teaching Chinese as a Second Language
This programme focuses on both first language Chinese and teaching Chinese as a Second Language.  Students will be qualified to teach Chinese in local and international schools in Hong Kong and overseas.
III. Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Science
1. First Double Degree in Education and Science in Local Universities 
This is the first double degree programme in Education and Science offered in local universities.  It prepares students for a broad range of careers, for instance as scientists, science teachers in the secondary or tertiary education sectors, curriculum developers, as well as in different educational bodies and the publishing industry.
2. Exposure to a Wide Range of Majors 
Students can develop interest and knowledge in Science from 12 majors offered by the Faculty of Science, including Astronomy, Biochemistry, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Ecology and Biodiversity, Earth System Science, Environmental Science, Food and Nutritional Science, Geology, Mathematics/Physics, Molecular Biology &amp; Biotechnology or Physics.  Together with the development of expertise in teaching Science curriculum by the Faculty of Education, students of this programme are given a more integrated experience in Science and Science Education, theory and practice.
IV.     Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Social Sciences
1. Exposure to a Wide Range of Majors 
This is a well-integrated double degree programme in Education and Social Sciences in Hong Kong enables students to develop interest and knowledge in social sciences from 6 majors offered by the Faculty of Social Sciences, including China Social Science, Geography, Politics and Public Administration, Psychology, Social Work and Social Administration or Sociology.  Together with the development of expertise in teaching Liberal Studies and Humanities-related curricula provided by the Faculty of Education, students of this programme are given a more integrated education experience in Social Sciences and Liberal Studies, and thus this wide range of majors potentially gives students broader career prospects.
2. Diverse Learning Experience 
Experiential learning is a distinctive feature of this double degree programme, providing opportunities for students to extend their learning experience beyond the classroom. Experiential learning may take various forms, including undergraduate research, exchange studies, field trips, and internship in non-governmental organizations (NGOs).  It is believed that such learning experience can benefit students by enhancing their insights in the real-world workplace environment and capabilities to integrate theory and practice, and broadening their global outlook.
Admissions Requirements  
To satisfy the minimum requirements for entrance to the University, each applicant shall gain the following in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE):
Level 3 or above in English language;
Level 3 or above in Chinese language;
Level 2 or above in Mathematics;
Level 2 or above in Liberal Studies; and
Level 3 or above in two Elective Subjects.
 (Applicable to all double degree programmes)
For Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Science, one of the elective subjects should be Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Combined Science or Integrated Science.
Students who are applying with Associate Degree, Higher Diploma, GCE, IB, SAT qualifications, or students from mainland China or overseas will be considered individually under the Non-JUPAS scheme.
Interviews may be held for selected candidates.
Admissions Quota 
JS6066 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education - English (40)
JS6080 Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Education in Language Education - Chinese (30)
JS6119 Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Science (25)
JS6195 Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Social Sciences (16)  
More information can be obtained with the following link: http://web.edu.hku.hk
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Queenie Wong, Development and Communications Manager, Faculty of Education, HKU (Tel: 2219 4270 / Mobile: 9220 5840 / Fax: 2540 6360 / Email: qlpwong@hku.hk).
Media Note:
The photos and power point can be downloaded at http://web.edu.hku.hk/press/20111018/ .
