[title]Announcement of HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarships[/title]
[date]25 Oct 2011[/date]
 
The University of Oxford and the University of Hong Kong (HKU) announced today a new scholarship for Hong Kong students, funded by Hong Kong philanthropist Walter Kwok Ping Sheung.
The HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarships will provide full funding for two University of Hong Kong graduates each year to undertake the new 1-year Master of Public Policy programme at Oxford's Blavatnik School of Government.  The scholarships, covering tuition and living expenses, are available for the programmme commencing in October 2012.
Dr. Walter Kwok Ping Sheung said, "For me personally, it is exciting and rewarding to be able to help two great universities in their academic collaboration. Both are, as institutions, significant academic leaders and both have been highly enthusiastic in partnering each other, in ways that will benefit Hong Kong students, and, ultimately, I trust, Hong Kong. It is my vision that these scholarships will be a major driver that will help to develop a new generation of individuals to lead Hong Kong in its continued upward political and social development."
The University of Oxford enjoys a long history of educating world leaders, including twenty-six British Prime Ministers and thirty international leaders.  In 2010, Oxford established the Blavatnik School of Government with a GBP 75m gift from American industrialist and philanthropist Leonard Blavatnik.  The Blavatnik School will develop tomorrow's leaders, in both the private and public sectors.  Students will be trained to offer a practically-informed and critical perspective on a wide range of issues, spanning democracy, law and security, history, finance, economic governance, science and the environment, demographics, public health and social policy.
Applications for the Master of Public Policy program are now being accepted. Successful candidates will have completed or be in the process of completing an undergraduate programme in any discipline with excellent academic results.  Full application information is available at http://www.bsg.ox.ac.uk/.
Lord Christopher Patten of Barnes CH said: "The Blavatnik School of Government offers exceptional preparation for a career in public policy. By creating the Kwok Scholarships and allowing students to develop cutting edge policy-making skills, Dr Kwok is making a very significant contribution to all Hong Kong. I am enormously proud that he has chosen to support Oxford and Hong Kong in this way.
Professor Andrew Hamilton, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, said: "Oxford University, which has educated so many world leaders in the past, is delighted to be able to open applications for the new Blavatnik School of Government. The School will embody the best of Oxford's traditional strengths but also provide scholars with innovative practical ways of dealing with the complex issues that confront world leaders today.  I am delighted that through the generosity of Dr. Walter Kwok, Hong Kong students will have the opportunity to participate in the Master of Public Policy program from its very first year, regardless of financial constraint."
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said, "It is somewhat humbling, as we celebrate our Centenary in HKU this year, to be able to announce a new partnership with a university that has led the world for over 900 years. Our links to Oxford are deep and wide, but we are very grateful to Dr. Kwok for his generosity in enabling two of our best HKU graduates to study at the new Blavatnik School of Government in Oxford from next year onwards."
About the Foundation 
The Walter Kwok Foundation was founded by Dr. Walter Kwok in April 2011 and has received approval from the Inland Revenue Department as a charitable institution.  The objectives of the Foundation includes to help the poor and the underprivileged, to provide scholarships and maintenance grants for students for the advancement of education, research and development, protection of environment and wildlife and promotion of Chinese art, culture and historical heritage.  Since its inception, the Foundation has made donations to two charities in Hong Kong namely Ashoka which helps the visually handicapped and Foodlink Foundation which helps the undernourished.
Media Contacts
University of Oxford
Mr. Jeremy Woodall
Director of Development, Asia
University of Oxford China Office in Hong Kong
Tel: (+852) 2151-3877
Email: jeremy.woodall@oxforduchina.org
（For enquiry in Chinese, please contact）
Dr Mimi Mo
Alumni Relations, Events and Communications Manager
University of Oxford China Office in Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2151 8315
Email: mimi.mo@oxforduchina.org
The University of Hong Kong
Ms Trinni Choy
Communication and Public Affairs Office
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2859 2606
Email: pychoy@hku.hk


 
Launching Ceremony of HKU/Oxford Kwok Scholarships



