[title]Christie’s Education Hong Kong and the University of Hong Kong’s Faculty of Arts jointly launch Contemporary Asian Art seminar program in July[/title]
[date]16 May 2016[/date]
 

The program will include exclusive visits to artists’ studios and galleries and conversations with art professionals.


The University of Hong Kong’s Faculty of Arts and Christie’s Education Hong Kong are pleased to announce the inaugural five-day seminar program titled Contemporary Asian Art: An Insider’s View, set to launch from 6th – 10th July 2016.  Jointly taught and organized, this new initiative, leveraging the expertise of the two institutions, focuses on modern and contemporary art in Asia, in particular China, Japan and India. The art historical portion of the program is conceived and delivered by the world-class faculty at the Fine Arts Department of the University of Hong Kong, while the market-related portion is developed by Christie’s Education.
This unprecedented academic collaboration is launched in response to increasing interest from people who wish to understand how the rapidly-growing art industry works and to explore career options in the art world, from galleries and auctions in the commercial side, to museums and independent art spaces on the institutional side.
The five-day program will combine art seminars with visits to various places including artists’ studios, galleries, Christie’s and museums, and conversations with art professionals. The final day is devoted to discussions and networking with experts, where attendees will benefit from hearing insiders’ views on contemporary Asian art.
Besides faculty members from the University’s Fine Arts Department and experts from Christie's, the program's speakers include key figures who have played – and continue to play – a pivotal role in shaping the art and cultural landscape in Asia.
Among those contributing to the program is former Chief Secretary for Administration Henry Tang, GBM, GBS, JP, who served as Chairman of the Board of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority from 2008 to 2011. "Hong Kong is now one of the most dynamic and fastest-growing art centers in the world, and the city presents fantastic learning opportunities for those who are interested in pursuing their passion in this field. I have every belief that art and culture will continue to grow and flourish in Asia, especially in Hong Kong."
François Curiel, Chairman, Christie’s Asia Pacific, “In recent years we have seen an incredible boom in the industry of contemporary art, with phenomenal growth in galleries, art fairs, independent art spaces and auctions, resulting in a rich and exciting field from which we can draw upon for spaces and sources of learning. This innovative collaboration with the University of Hong Kong exemplifies our commitment to cultivating public interest in art, and in nurturing talents for those interested in pursuing a career in the industry.”
Elaine Kwok, Director, Christie’s Education Asia, “Combining the expertise, academic excellence, strong reputation, and broad networks of Christie’s Education and the University of Hong Kong, this new program is designed to provide a solid foundation for our attendees, so that they can understand some of the key contemporary artists in Asia, the importance of the market as a platform for contemporary art, and how mega-art events and institutions of contemporary art have the power to shift cultural landscapes.”
Derek Collins, Dean, Faculty of Arts, The University of Hong Kong, “There has been enormous growth in the number of museums, galleries and art fairs in Hong Kong and China in recent years. Hong Kong is currently one of the top three art auction markets in the world and one of three locations for the world's leading art fair, Art Basel. Several cutting-edge venues showcasing contemporary art from the Asian region and beyond are scheduled to open before 2020. This is an exciting time for visual art in Hong Kong and this timely collaboration leverages the strengths of two institutions that are key to connecting academic excellence in art history with unique insight into the complexities of the commercial art world.”
Yeewan Koon, Associate Professor, Fine Arts Department, The University of Hong Kong, “This innovative program provides participants with invaluable insights into the world of contemporary Asian art and how it is reviewed, displayed and sold in Hong Kong. It offers both an historical introduction to some of the most significant artists and art movements of the 20th and 21st centuries and an exclusive opportunity to engage with the museum directors, curators, collectors and auctioneers who help shape our city's cultural landscape.”
Please visit http://arts.hku.hk/events/christiesprogram or www.christies.edu/hku for full program information. Registration is open.More information on the seminar can be found in the Appendix.
About Christie’s Education
Christie’s Education Asia, with Hong Kong as its headquarter, offers short courses to art enthusiasts, professionals, practitioners, and collectors throughout the year. With rich resources from Christie’s, art institutions, and universities, Christie’s Education Asia brings engaging courses covering extensive topics including Chinese Works of Art, Asian Contemporary Art, Art &amp; Law, Global Art Business, to audiences in Asia and beyond.
About the Department of Fine Arts
The Department of Fine Arts at the University of Hong Kong offers the most comprehensive art history training to be found in Hong Kong or China as a whole, teaching Asian and Western art as equally valued traditions up to doctoral level. The Department's teachers are internationally-renowned experts and active researchers who have contributed to making the Department a centre of art historical excellence in Hong Kong and globally. Founded in 1912, the Faculty of Arts was ranked first in Asia in Arts and Humanities in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2015-2016.
Press Contacts: 
Christie’s Education      Gigi Ho              +852 2978-6719      gigiho@christies.com
Faculty of Arts                 Cyrus Chan      +852 3917-4984      cyrusc@hku.hk

