[title]16 Recommendations on Provision of Private Patient Services in Clinical Departments endorsed by HKU Council[/title]
[date]30 Jan 2008[/date]
 
The Council of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), at its meeting yesterday (January 29, 2008), endorsed the recommendations of its Working Group, set up to investigate ways to improve the arrangements and procedures of private patient services and outside practice in clinical departments.
The Working Group included:
Dr. York Liao, lay member of Council (Chairman)
Dr. the Hon. Leong Che-hung, lay member of Council
Professor John Malpas, Pro-Vice-Chancellor
Professor Raymond Liang, Acting Dean of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Since August 2007, the Working Group has consulted extensively across the University and the Hospital Authority's (HA) Queen Mary Hospital. In addition the Working Group liaised with the Corruption Prevention Department of the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC).
The Working Group, while it concluded that private patient services provided by the Medical Faculty were a valuable public service, as some level of specialized expertise and facilities may not generally be available within the private sector and the services also enhanced the experience and expertise of clinical teachers, sees the need to further improve the existing arrangements and procedures of private patient services.
The Council has adopted all 16 recommendations of the Working Group. Two key areas are highlighted:-
(1) Data provided by HA to the University's Finance and Enterprises Office (FEO) and clinical departments should identify individuals, while at the same time maintain a level of confidentiality, to assist verification of procedures performed and bills paid / unpaid. Clinical departments are to be responsible for the reconciliation of billing and attendance and the FEO is to be responsible for reconciliation of billing and payments. It is also suggested that nurses be invited to help perform checks and balances on accuracy of patients' procedures and fees.
(2) To continue the practice of consideration of waiving fees but this practice be done in accordance with approved guidelines and procedures, inclusive of a detailed record; and that waivers can be considered only in respect of the following groups: 
- health care professionals and their immediate family members; 
- U colleagues, and their immediate family members; and
- those closely associated with the University, provided that clear justifications are given, in line with the procedures, and approval by the Head of Department is obtained.
Similar to the current practice, no waiver of the HA fees will be allowed.
The relevant offices within the University have been charged with implementing the details of the recommendations, with the Working Group reviewing such in 6, and then 12 months' time. The Working Group will report back to the Council on the progress of the implementation.
For enquiries, please contact Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
