[title]HKU Knowledge Exchange Conference: Knowledge Transforming Society[/title]
[date]05 Dec 2011[/date]
 
Knowledge Exchange, or Knowledge Transfer, has formally been recognized by the University Grants Committee (UGC) and is described as the "third mission" of higher education. All the UGC-funded higher education institutions are committed to sharing their knowledge and excellent research with different sectors of society. The challenge is how to make the knowledge of higher education institutions accessible and work for society.
The University of Hong Kong (HKU), together with all the other UGC-funded institutions, jointly organized the Knowledge Exchange (KE) Conference: Knowledge Transforming Society, the first day of which was held on December 5, 2011 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Sponsored by UGC, the 2-day conference incorporates the "3+3+4" Symposium on Knowledge Transfer, which will be held tomorrow (December 6, 2011).
The Conference was officiated by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor/President of HKU, and Professor Eng-kiong Yeoh, UGC member and Convenor of the "3+3+4" Group.
"We are very glad that with UGC's formal recognition and support of knowledge exchange, there is now a shared enthusiasm in the UGC sector to promote knowledge exchange with a view to making sustainable contributions to benefit our society and enhancing quality of life," Professor Tsui said.
The rich programme of the Conference covers a wide range of topics relating to the development of knowledge exchange.
Innovation and technology has been identified as one of the six pillar industries that is very important for the economic development of Hong Kong. At the Conference, Miss Janet Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology, Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, shared her insights about the creation of a favourable ecological environment for facilitating realisation of R&amp;D results. Hon. Mrs Regina Ip, GBS, JP, Member of the Legislative Council, shared her thoughts on what it takes for academic research to be translated into innovative industries and how to bridge the gap. Ir Dr Hon. Samson Tam, JP, Member of Legislative Council (Information Technology), considered in his talk whether it would be possible for Hong Kong to develop an Asian Apple Tree Ecosystem.
Ms Qiu Xuan, Vice Director, Science, Industry, Trade and Information Technology Commission of Shenzhen Municipality, highlighted the development of technology industries in Shenzhen under China's 12th Five-Year Plan and initiatives to further enhance co-operation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong.
Mr Michael Lynch, CBE, AM, Chief Executive Officer of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority, had a dialogue with Professor Daniel Chua, Head of the HKU School of Humanities, on "Arts for Everyone: The Case for Culture in Hong Kong".
Distinguished speakers from the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Australia, Singapore and Japan shared their experience and views on key issues relating to technology transfer, the impact of non-technology-related knowledge exchange on society, and the relationship between "3+3+4" education system and knowledge transfer.
The Conference provided new insights on how higher education institutions along with industry, business, the public sector, non-governmental organizations, and schools, could work together to address the many complex issues facing Hong Kong and the region. Researchers of the UGC-funded institutions shared their success stories in building partnerships with different sectors of society. On Day 2 of the Conference, they will also discuss their projects that seek to translate knowledge into solutions for Hong Kong in respect of ageing, environmental issues, and arts and cultural development. The "3+3+4" Symposium will cover topics in work-integrated education, experiential learning and entrepreneurship programe.
For media enquiries, please contact the Knowledge Exchange Office of The University of Hong Kong (tel: 2299 0196; email: keoffice@hku.hk ).


 
HKU Knowledge Exchange Conference



