[title]New Publication by HKU Paediatricians : ‘Allergic Rhinitis – The Paediatric Disease You Must Learn’[/title]
[date]05 Jul 2011[/date]
 
Since 2009, the Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine of The University of Hong Kong has launched a series of public education books named as ‘The Paediatric Disease You Must Learn', which received overwhelming response from readers of all walks of life. This year, the department proudly announces the launch of the fourth book of the series entitled ‘Allergic Rhinitis - The Paediatric Disease You Must Learn' to be distributed together with multimedia DVDs. Through the experiences of paediatric patients, the book serves to enhance public awareness and protect the health of children by introducing common paediatric diseases in a layman-friendly manner. The book is now available at the bookstores, priced at $68 each.
Professor LAU Yu-lung, Doris Zimmern Professor in Community Child Health, Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, who chairs the Editorial Board of the series said, "We are delighted that the book series just won the inaugural Faculty Knowledge Exchange Award of The University of Hong KongLi Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, which is indeed an acknowledgement to our efforts in translating the knowledge of paediatric diseases to the general public. We shall continue to produce the series of books and DVDs so as to retain this excellent platform for paediatric patients and their parents to better understand various children diseases." The income and donations generated will be put under the Fund of the Department which will finance the production and publicity of these books and other issues related to child health.
Book 4 - Allergic Rhinitis
Allergic rhinitis (nose allergy) is an inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa occurred when a sensitized immune system is stimulated by allergens, often linked to atopy. Its prevalence has been increasing in recent years, which is believed to be in association with the western lifestyle.
Dr. LEE So-lun, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor of the Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said, "Allergic rhinitis was the second commonest chronic health condition reported by children aged 14 and below with prevalence of 24.5% based on Child Health Survey 2005-2006. Such a common disorder has been surrounded by lots of myths and misconceptions in our community. In fact, allergic rhinitis is not just a stuff nose but can be associated with other health problems such as other allergic disorders, sleep problems and asthma, which significantly hamper the children's quality of life, sleep and learning. Therefore, parents should not neglect the disease."
The current strategy to manage allergic rhinitis is to alleviate the symptoms with medication. Dr. Marco HO Hok-kung, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor of the Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine suggested that immunotherapy can be a new hope for patients with allergic rhinitis. "Immunotherapy aims to let the patients lose sensitivity to a specific allergen through receiving injections of it over a period of time. Recent studies show that immunotherapy is effective in treating pollen and mite allergy. It even appears to reduce the development of asthma."
‘The Paediatric Disease You Must Learn' series
With the publication of these books in Chinese, the Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine hopes that the public can have a proper understanding of some common paediatric diseases, and be supportive as well as compassionate to the affected children and parents.
The book series has won the inaugural Faculty Knowledge Exchange Award of The University of Hong Kong. The Award was presented to the project which can transfer the excellence in teaching and learning from the University spectrum effectively and continuously to the public via multi-channels, including books, DVDs, public talks and so on.
For news photos and powerpoint slides, please visit the website at:
http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases/


 
(From left) Dr. LEE So-lun, Honorary Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; Professor LAU Yu-lung, Doris Zimmern Professor in Community Child Health, Chair Professor of Paediatrics and Head, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; Dr. Marco HO Hok-kung, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
 
Professor LAU Yu-lung, Doris Zimmern Professor in Community Child Health, Chair Professor of Paediatrics and Head, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, hopes to continuously produce the series of books and DVDs for the public to better understand various children diseases.
 
Dr. Marco HO Hok-kung, Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, introduces allergic rhinitis and its treatment.
 
Dr. LEE So-lun, Honorary Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics &amp; Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, thinks air pollution is associated with the increasing prevalence of allergic rhinitis among Hong Kong children.
 
(From left) allergic rhinitis patient, Cheuk Nam; Cheuk Nam’s mother, Ruth
 
Frank Wong, Chairman of The Hong Kong Allergy Association



