[title]The Sixth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships at HKU[/title]
[date]20 Apr 2012[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated its Sixth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 20). 
At the ceremony, the Joseph Needham - Philip Mao Professorship in Chinese History, Science and Civilization was announced. It was established in honour of the late Dr Joseph Needham, who directed the monumental work "Science and Civilisation in China", and the late Dr Philip Wen Chee Mao, the Founding Chairman of the East Asian History of Science Foundation (Hong Kong).  The Foundation hopes that the establishment of this Professorship will encourage even greater cooperation on the study of science and civilization in China in future.
Also announced at the Inauguration was the establishment of the Y W Kan Professorship in Natural Sciences. This Professorship was created by The Croucher Foundation, in recognition of the contribution of Professor Y W Kan over twenty years to the work of the Foundation and to Hong Kong science.
 "We are proud that, since the first inauguration at 2005, we have 66 Endowed Professorships at the University. We aim to create 100 Endowed Professorships and I am grateful to the community for its support of the University's goal," said Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU.
Endowed Professorships at HKU are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.  It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon our distinguished academics.  With a close partnership between academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which is matched by the University with an equal amount.  The interest generated from the $20 million endowment is used to support the respective area of academic excellence.  An Advisory Committee ensures the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures.  The Committee members include Dr Raymond K F Ch'ien (Chairman), Professor Kai-Ming Cheng, Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Ms Mary Ma.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office on 2241-5677 or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) on 2859 2606 (email: pychoy@hku.hk), Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU.

