[title]Joseph Yam invited by HKU For the launch of "Meeting of Minds" Programme[/title]
[date]25 Apr 2006[/date]
 
Today Mr. Joseph Yam Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority was invited by the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to share his experience on career development.Over 150 secondary school students from 20 schools attended the session which was held in his office at Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Central.
This session is the 1st in the "Meeting of Minds" Series 2006 launched today by HKU.The programme is designed for secondary school students, with the aim to develop, inspire and nurture secondary school students to serve our community as future leaders.It represents HKU's commitment to whole-person education beyond the higher education sector into the secondary school level.
Mr. Joseph Yam Sharing with Secondary School Students Today
When sharing with students today on "Reflections on the Hong Kong financial market and your future", Mr. Yam encouraged students to build up confidence and to overcome difficulties ahead of them during their course of study and in their lives, he said "Finance plays a very important role in Hong Kong.Whether Hong Kong can attain success depends on its strategic development in the coming few years.I hope that Hong Kong's economy can be better after a few years when you graduate, so that you can have better opportunities in your future."
In today's opening address, Professor K M Cheng Senior Adviser to the Vice-Chancellor of HKU introduced the Programme as he said, "Learning how to communicate and deal with people is as important as the academic knowledge itself. Being the territory's oldest institution, HKU provides a rich culture of hostel life and multi-cultural campus which will help enhance your interpersonal skills and broaden your international horizon.These are important qualities for leaders in our society many of whom are graduates of HKU as you can see". 
"Meeting of Minds" Programme
In a series of three lecture cum sharing sessions, groups of secondary school students will hear from distinguished HKU alumni their perspectives on selected topics that are essential to the success of Hong Kong, namely finance &amp; economics, rule of law and volunteering services.Details of the programme are: 
Date: 25 April 2006 (Held Today) 
Topic &amp; Speaker : "Reflections on the Hong Kong financial market and your future" by Mr. Joseph Yam, Chief Executive of the HK Monetary Authority, graduated from HKU in Economics &amp; Statistics in 1970
Date: 3 May 2006
Time: 5pm-6pm
Topic &amp; Speaker: "Mission impossible in calamities" by Dr. Tze-wah Tse, President, Medecins Sans Frontieres Hong Kong, graduated from the Medical School of HKU in 1995
Date: 18 May 2006
Time: 5pm-6pm
Topic &amp; Speaker: "How to uphold justice in the 21st Century?" by Hon Audrey Eu, Member of the Legislative Council obtained LLB from HKU in 1975.
For photos of today's event, please download at http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia/ and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery" after 6:30pm.
For enquires please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU at 2859 2606.
