[title]HKU applauds Government's strategic investment in research funding[/title]
[date]27 Feb 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong warmly welcomes the Government's initiatives relating to the building of research capacity its Budget announcement today.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "We applaud the Government's move to set up the $18 billion Research Endowment Fund. This is the first time the Hong Kong Government has made such a bold, timely and substantial investment in research for the higher education sector through an endowment fund."
Earlier on, the Heads of Universities Committee (HUCOM) issued a statement urging the Government to greatly enhance the research funding for tertiary institutions.
"I believe that the Research Endowment Fund will help build Hong Kong's knowledge economy and strengthen our international competitiveness, and help realise Hong Kong's strategic goal of becoming Asia's education hub," said Professor Tsui.
Professor Tsui also welcomed the Government's provision of 800 additional publicly-funded places for postgraduate research programmes.
"I am confident that the new places will create momentum in academic research culture and build the human resources essential for the future development of Hong Kong," he said.
"The two initiatives will create a vibrant and steady research environment which is crucial in attracting top academics and researchers to the Region.
"The Government's new research investments will be a big boost to our Centenary Recruitment Plan for 200+ professoriate staff critical for our new "3-3-4" curriculum in 2012," Professor Tsui added.
The University will work closely with the Research Grants Council of the University Grants Committee to identify specific themes which will be funded by the Research Endowment Fund.
For enquiries please contact Senior Manager (Media) Ms Cherry Cheung (Tel: 2859 2606 / E-mail: cherry.cheung@hku.hk); or Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 /E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
