[title]Treatment of Communication and Swallowing Disorders Using Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation[/title]
[date]16 May 2012[/date]
 
Past overseas studies have suggested that around 50% of chronic stroke survivors will develop some level of swallowing problems. Based on the Hospital Authority 2009-10 annual report, there are around 23,700 stroke cases per year and it is estimated that around 11,850 of these cases may continue to have swallowing problems when they are discharged from hospitals.
Swallowing problems may lead to malnutrition, dehydration, reduced quality of life and can even be fatal. Current treatment methods include changing the food and liquid texture, changing the feeding posture, oral muscles strengthening exercises or sensory stimulation exercises. In some severe cases, the clients may need to feed through a feeding tube that is inserted through the nose to the stomach or directly inserted to the stomach. Currently, there is limited data on how effective these treatment methods are in improving swallowing functions for stroke survivors. The Swallowing Research Laboratory, Division of Speech &amp; Hearing Sciences, Faculty of Education, HKU is currently running a pilot study to investigate a new swallowing treatment method for stroke survivors.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation method of modulating the activity of the cerebral cortex. In recent years, researchers at The Centre for Neurogenic Communication Disorders Research at the University of Queensland have been investigating the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the treatment of a range of swallowing and communication disorders associated with a range of neurological disorders including stroke and Parkinson's disease. In a series of placebo controlled randomised clinical trials they have demonstrated the effectiveness of the transcranial magnetic stimulation as a treatment for language disorders (aphasia) and for motor speech dysfunction in Parkinson's disease, where traditional therapy approaches have proven ineffective. Based on these findings, transcranial magnetic stimulation would appear to have the potential to revolutionize the treatment of neurogenic communication and swallowing disorders with improved outcomes and quality of life for sufferers of neurological disease.
This pilot study is one of a series of studies that the Division is collaborating with Professor Bruce Murdoch (Visiting Research Professor at HKU, Director of the Centre for Neurogenic Communication Disorders Research at the University of Queensland, Australia). The research projects focus on using magnetic stimulation to improve communication and swallowing problems in stroke survivors and clients with Parkinson's disease. Establishment of this programme of research at HKU will enable the research team to determine the effectiveness of transcranial magnetic stimulation treatments in populations will different cultural and language backgrounds (i.e. English and Cantonese) as well as adding to the database in the form of multicenter trials. Research to be conducted at HKU will extend the above programme of research to include investigation of the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the treatment of swallowing disorders post stroke. Overall, this state-of-the-art research programme will place HKU at the forefront of neurorehabilitation for communication and swallowing disorders.
For media enquiries, please contact Dr Karen Chan, Assistant Professor (Tel: 2859 0561 / Fax: 2818 9984 / E-mail: karencmk@hku.hk) or Ms Queenie Wong, Development and Communications Manager (Tel: 2219 4270 / Mobile: 9220 5840 / Fax: 2540 6360 / E-mail: qlpwong@hku.hk).
