[title]A Dialogue with World University Leaders[/title]
[date]12 Apr 2011[/date]
 
Vice-Chancellors of the University of Cambridge and the University of Hong Kong discuss the opportunities and challenges facing the higher education sector
Professor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge was engaged in a dialogue at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (April 12) with HKU Vice-chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and students.
The event, entitled "Dialogue with World University Leaders - From Cambridge to Hong Kong", saw the two Vice-Chancellors discussing the opportunities and challenges facing universities in the UK, in Hong Kong and around the world.
Guiding and directing the dialogue were three HKU student panelists who came from very different cultural backgrounds. They were Mr Sam Wong Ming-sum, a year one LLB student admitted through the Early Admissions Scheme; Mr Kshitij Tiwari, a year one BEng (EcomE) student born and brought up in India; and Miss Alyson Han Yu, a year two BBA (Accounting and Finance) student from Beijing.
Together, they helped build an engaging and enthusiastic discussion between the Vice-Chancellors and with the audience on the ideals and relevance of university education in the 21st century, by examining Cambridge and HKU - one over 800 years old, and one just celebrating its centenary.  
In his welcoming address, Professor Tsui thanked Sir Leszek for the insights he brought to enlighten HKU members at the University's Centenary celebrations.
"For the past 100 years, HKU has stood for the importance of knowledge and education in transforming individual lives, building communities and serving society.
"The insights brought to us by renowned scholars and world leaders, such as our distinguished guest today, Sir Leszek, will greatly benefit the University community and the public at large.
"These events are a reminder of the Knowledge, Heritage and Service that HKU continues to stand for," said Professor Tsui.
Sir Leszek shared his views on the mission of universities to provide education, develop new knowledge and interact with society. He said that having a forward-looking attitude would be of the utmost importance, and that universities should embrace change to thrive in research, and to get better in the work they do for tomorrow, which includes training students for tomorrow.
"HKU and Cambridge are great institutions but we can never afford to look backwards. There is no resting on your laurels in a competitive world of higher education," said Sir Leszek, adding that universities must embrace change and innovation to remain relevant to society, today as well as in the future.
Sir Leszek Borysiewicz is the 345th Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge. He was formerly Principal of the Faculty of Medicine and later Deputy Rector at Imperial College, London, and was knighted in the 2001 New Year's Honours List for his contributions to medical education and research into developing vaccines, including work towards a vaccine to combat cervical cancer.
For further information, please visit: http://www.cpao.hku.hk/dialogue/
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


 
Professor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui with three HKU student panelists
 
Professor Tsui thanks Sir Leszek for the insights shared with HKU members
 
Sir Leszek shares his views on the mission of universities to provide education, develop new knowledge and interact with society



