[title]Apprentice@HKU[/title]
[date]23 Feb 2006[/date]
 
Four students were selected in the final stage of Apprentice@HKU contest taken place at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (February 23, 2006), and awarded summer internships by the world's leading multinational.
Apprentice@HKU contest, jointly organised by the Personal Development and Counselling Centre of HKU and IBM China / Hong Kong Limited, aims at encouraging students' creativity, as well as analytical and presentation skills. 
Though the event was its first year, student response was overwhelming. The four winners were selected out of 120 contestants and went through two preliminary stages and a final stage of contest. 
During the final stage of contest, students were evaluated by a panel of judges comprising representatives from HKU's Careers Education and Placement Centre and IBM China / Hong Kong Limited for their views on current affairs issues, as well as their competence in case study analysis and presentation. Students were also required to give quick responses to judges' questions and feedbacks. Four winners were selected out of eight final contestants. They were Benny Chung (Surveying), Sharon Pang (BBA Law), Yan Wai-lo (Philosophy &amp; Politics &amp; Public Administration) and Sabrina Lau (Psychology &amp; Criminal Justice).
Each of the four winners would be offered a 2-month summer internship contract with monthly salary of HK$9,000 by IBM China / Hong Kong Limited. During the internship, each student will be assigned with a mentor and arranged to work in a designated department. The internship serves as a valuable opportunity for students to have first-hand experience of the operation and decision-making process of world's leading multinational.
Apprentice@HKU was the highlight programme of Careers Fair, which was organised by HKU's Personal Development and Counselling Centre. Entitled 'Ladder to Success', this three-day event aimed at promoting students' awareness of career planning through a number of activities and workshops of different career-related topics. 
For photos of the contest, please download at the followings: 
Photo 1: (From left) Benny Chung (Surveying), Sabrina Lau (Psychology &amp; Criminal Justice), Sharon Pang (BBA Law) and Yan Wai-lo (Philosophy &amp; Politics &amp; Public Administration)
Photo 2: The four winners and panel of judges
For media enquiries, please contact Elsie Leung of HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
