[title]HKU holds Equal Opportunity Festival 2013[/title]
[date]05 Nov 2013[/date]
 




The Equal Opportunity Festival 2013 is held from today (November 5) to November 22 at the University of Hong Kong (HKU).  The theme of this year’s Festival is “To build an inclusive society with respect to sexual equality”.  Events covering talks, forum, exhibition and book exhibition and film show are organized by the Equal Opportunity Unit in collaboration with the Library, CEDARS, Information Technology Services and General Education Unit during the Festival. Booths by NGOs including the Equal Opportunities Commission, the Family Planning Association, Anti-480 Anti Sexual Violence Resource Centre, Speak for Humanity and Queer Straight Alliance are set up for the promotion of equal opportunity on campus.
Dr. York Chow, Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission and Professor Roland T. Chin, HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, were the officiating guests at the Opening Ceremony held earlier today at Sun Yat-sen Place (Happy Square). The Opening Ceremony also featured the inauguration for the Equal Opportunity Student Ambassadors, who are a group of students with different backgrounds to work together to maintain an accessible, equitable and diversified campus for all. About 40 students have joined the programme to continue on the effort to foster and promote an inclusive culture on campus.
Professor Roland Chin at the ceremony said that with the launch of the Equal Opportunity Student Ambassadors programme, students would be involved to initiate programmes or projects related to equal opportunity and to promote the awareness of maintaining a discrimination free environment among students and staff.
Dr. York Chow has in his speech urged for more discussion in the public about gender equality and the rights of sexual minority in Hong Kong. 
For more details about the Equal Opportunity Festival 2013, please visit the festival website at: http://www.eounit.hku.hk/eofestival2013/ .
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .

Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission Dr. York Chow and HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost Professor Roland T. Chin with student ambassadors

 Students performing at the opening ceremony


