[title]Primary and secondary school students join the Sea Level Measurement Device Design Competition at HKU[/title]
[date]03 May 2015[/date]
 



Our Lady of China Catholic Primary School
佑華IT-Kids
Junior category: 
Champion and the Best Presentation Award 

Dolphin's Friend, Aberdeen Technical School  
Senior category: Champion and the Most Accurate 
Sea Level Measurement Device Award. 

The exhibition and award presentation ceremony for the Sea Level Measurement Device Design Competition was held at Loke Yew Hall of the University of Hong Kong today (May 3, Sunday).
The Sea Level Measurement Device Design Competition is jointly organised by the HKU Faculty of Engineering, the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO), and the Hong Kong Meteorological Society (HKMetSoc).  It is under the project titled "Sea Level Measurement Device for Everyone" which was supported by the Knowledge Exchange Fund of the University Grant Committee.

Junior category Champion
Our Lady of China Catholic Primary School
佑華IT-Kids

   Senior category Champion
Aberdeen Technical School
Dolphin's Friend

   
A consequence of global warming is the rise of sea level. This increases the risk of storm surges brought by tropical cyclones, which would significantly affect the coastal and low-lying areas of Hong Kong. Increasing the awareness of the general public about sea level change is therefore of utmost importance.
The competition is the first of its kind in Hong Kong with a primary objective to enhance knowledge of and interest in information technology and meteorological instrumentation among the young generations.　
A total of 28 teams of students from primary, secondary and international schools ranging from Primary 4 to Secondary 6, divided into junior and senior categories, joined the competition. They are required to design their own sea level measurement devices to compete for the Champion, first runner-up, second runner-up, the most innovative sea level measurement device award, the most attractive sea level measurement device award, the most accurate sea level measurement device award and the best presentation award as set out for the Junior and Senior categories respectively. In November to December 2014, a series of engineering and meteorological workshops, talks and visits have been organised for students for their understanding to various sea level measurement method and enable them to make an innovative, accurate and attractive sea level measurement device.
At the award presentation ceremony, HKU Associate Dean of Engineering and the Principal Investigator of the project Professor Francis C. M. Lau praised the students as their devices are both aesthetically pleasing and technically well-integrated. Their display of technical and presentation skills show that they are future engineers and scientists Hong Kong and the world can depend on.
Also officiating at the ceremony was Assistant Director of the Hong Kong Observatory Miss Sharon S. Y. Lau. Miss Lau was impressed by the creativity of the students.  She said: "Given the challenges in sea level measurement which are new to the students, the students should be applauded for their creativity and enthusiasm in coming up with so many new designs for the devices that are both practical and reliable within just a few months."
HKMetSoc Vice-chairman Dr P W Li said: “The judges are very much impressed by the creativity of the students shown in the competition.  Some of the devices, after appropriate tuning and polishing, may have the potential to be turned into practical instruments suitable for real life operations. The judges are really proud of Hong Kong students’ efforts.”
The list of awardees of the “Sea Level Measurement Device Design Competition” and photos can be found at:
http://www.cs.hku.hk/~sealevel/AwardWinnerList-English.php
Competition website: http://i.cs.hku.hk/~sealevel/Competition-English.php.
For media enquiries please contact Miss Nancy Cheung, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2219 4668 / E-mail: nccheung@hku.hk) or Ms Melanie Wan, Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2600 / Email: melwkwan@hku.hk).
