[title]Four Acclaimed Artists Appointed as University Artists 2011-2012[/title]
[date]07 Apr 2011[/date]
 


Four University Artists (from left) Ms Yip Wing-sie, Ms Mabel Cheung, Mr Alex Law and Mr Gu Wenda

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) launched the University Artists Scheme (the Scheme) in an inauguration ceremony today (April 7). Four highly respected artists from the disciplines of Film, Music, and the Visual Arts were appointed as University Artists for 2011 - 2012. The four artists are Filmmakers and HKU Alumni Ms Mabel Cheung (張婉婷) and Mr Alex Law (羅啟銳), Visual Artist Mr Gu Wenda (谷文達), and Conductor Ms Yip Wing-sie (葉詠詩). The Scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts and supported by the Daniel Chan Fund.
The ceremony was officiated by HKU Dean of Arts Professor Kam Louie in the presence of Mr Daniel Chan, Founder and Managing Director of Paragon International Ltd, and various guests.
HKU Dean of Arts, Professor Kam Louie said in the ceremony, "For our students, in particular, having the opportunity to question true masters of their craft and engage in a creative dialogue with them is an invaluable experience which they will never forget. This is very much in keeping with some of the chief goals of our new curriculum, which provides students with diverse learning experiences beyond the classroom and encourages critical thinking and all-round development." He also thanked the Daniel Chan Fund for making it possible to extend the Scheme and organize a wide range of events, including those to be held as part of the University's Centenary Celebrations.
The University Artists Scheme was officially launched in 2008 and is the first programme of its kind to be held at HKU. The Scheme brings artists of international calibre to the campus, to share their knowledge with and enrich the lives of students, staff and the community.
The Inauguration Ceremony was followed by the Public Forum "Echoes of Memory: Days of Apprenticeship." University Artists Ms Mabel Cheung and Mr Alex Law discussed their films and shared fond memories of their student life at HKU. This is the second event to be organized as part of the Scheme 2011-2012. In March, University Artist Yip Wing-sie conducted a master class with HKU students. Further events will be scheduled over the coming two years.
A brief introduction of the four University Artists 2011-2012 and donor follows:
Mabel Cheung (Film)
Mabel Cheung (張婉婷) is an alumna of HKU and an award-winning film director. She is one of Hong Kong's finest film producers and directors, with her 1987 film, An Autumn's Tale, enjoying great commercial success. There has also been great international recognition for her work, from the Hong Kong Films Awards, the Asia-Pacific Film Festival, and the Golden Horse Film Festival and Awards. Most recently, she was awarded the prestigious Crystal Bear for Best Film at the 2010 Berlin International Film Festival, for Echoes of the Rainbow. Her professional recognition also includes being appointed a member of the Hong Kong Film Development Council.
Alex Law (Film)
Alex Law (羅啟銳) has built a reputation as a talented film director, producer and writer, whose impressive career has seen him reach the highest echelons of the Hong Kong film industry and international film festivals. Most recently, he won the Crystal Bear for Best Film at the 2010 Berlin International Film Festival for Echoes of the Rainbow, which also garnered him the Best Screenplay Award at the Hong Kong Film Awards. Since graduating with a BA in Chinese and English Studies &amp; Comparative Literature from HKU, he has worked on many films with fellow alumna, Ms Mabel Cheung, a creative partnership that has led to numerous awards and honours.
Yip Wing-sie (Music)
A highly respected and influential figure in Asia's orchestral music scene, Yip Wing-sie (葉詠詩) has been the Music Director of the Hong Kong Sinfonietta since 2002 and is also the Principal Guest Conductor of the Guangzhou Symphony Orchestra. Winner of the First Prize as well as "LYRE d'OR" in the 35th Concours International de Jeunes Chefs d'Orchestre de Besançon in 1985, Yip Wing-sie has collaborated with such renowned artists as Augustin Dumay, Fou Ts'ong, Shlomo Mintz, Anne-Sophie Mutter, Itzhak Perlman and Pinchas Zukerman. She was awarded the "Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres" by the French Ministry of Culture and Communication in 2007. In 2010, she was elected Fellow of the Royal College of Music (FRCM).
Gu Wenda (Visual Arts)
Gu Wenda (谷文達) is considered one of the pioneers of Chinese contemporary art. In the early to mid 1980s, he challenged the establishment and influenced an entire generation of artists in China with a series of provocative ink paintings that employed fake or pseudo Chinese characters. After he moved to the United States in 1987, he began creating large-scale installations, using everything from human hair to human placenta powder to create artistic objects and explore the issues surrounding multiculturalism and globalization. Through his work, Gu Wenda has established himself as a powerful commentator on the cultural and linguistic barriers that continue to exist in a globalized era.
Mr Daniel Chan (Donor)
Daniel Chan is the Founder and Managing Director of Paragon International Limited and has over 20 years' experience in the luxury goods industry. Outside of his work in the business world, he is a generous contributor to the community. He presently sits on the Board of Directors of Po Leung Kuk and is a member of the Council of the Lord Wilson Heritage Trust. He is an advisor to, and was previously Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Watch Trades and Industries Limited. He received his Bachelor Degree from the University of Western Ontario, Canada.
Media enquiries, please contact: Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Faculty of Arts, HKU (Tel: 2859 8048, email: kpmak@hku.hk ) or Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk

