[title]Medical students strike cans to voice support for breastfeeding[/title]
[date]27 Nov 2011[/date]
 
To promote breastfeeding and remind the public about the drawbacks of formula milk feeding, a group of medical students from The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine "struck" the citizens today (November 27) by using formula milk cans as percussion instruments. Through this meaningful activity, the medical students would like to arouse the public concern about baby food. About 500 signatures were also collected from pedestrians to support the students' petitions to the Department of Health for advertising breastfeeding in the mass media, and to the Legislative Council for an immediate implementation of the Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes applicable to Hong Kong (Hong Kong Code).
With tidy uniform and rhythmic beats, a group of 9 HKU medical students gained support from the public by striking the formula milk cans, which signified their dissent to the exaggerating claims about formula milk's benefits). The activity received positive feedbacks from pedestrians who signed on the boards to show their support to the students. Ms Wong, a pedestrian, agreed students' view and thought that Government should promote more on the techniques of breastfeeding. Ms Chan, another pedestrian, said that there are too many formula milk advertisements and supervision on their marketing strategies is necessary.
So why should we breastfeed? 
Breastmilk is natural food for babies, which is easily absorbed and digested. Its nutritional composition changes with time to suit the infants' needs at different stages of growth and development. It is proven to be effective in preventing allergic reactions in infants, such as asthma and eczema. Mothers can also benefit from breastfeeding, which include restoration of uterus after giving birth, as well as reduction in weight and the long-term risk of suffering breast and ovarian cancers and osteoporosis. Therefore breastfeeding protects both the health of the infants and mothers.
The link between Childhood Obesity and Formula Feeding 
The World Health Organization recommends that new born babies should be exclusively breastfed for at least six months. Studies show that breastfeeding reduces the risk of children obesity, ultimately reducing risk of developing cardiovascular diseases as they reach adulthood. "Tackling Obesity", a publication by the Hong Kong Department of Health in 2005, echoes the positive effect of breastfeeding in reducing children obesity. In general, the infant formulae available in the stores mostly provide infants with excessive nutrition, subsequently increase the chances of developing obesity and cardiovascular diseases for those fed on formula milk.
Implementation of the Hong Kong Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes 
According to the Department of Health, only about 12% of Hong Kong mothers exclusively breastfeed their babies for the first six months. HKU medical students suggest the Hong Kong Government to take reference from WHO's "International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes" and introduce a set of regulations to monitor the advertisements of formula milk, and to enact the Hong Kong Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes promptly. Also, they suggest the Hong Kong Government should have its own official advertisements in promoting breastfeeding and counteracting the exaggerated propaganda of formula milk feeding by the manufacturers.
For media inquiry, please contract Matthew Ho (tel: 96184201) or Abram Chan (tel: 60956762) - Year 3 medical students from The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine


 
A medical student explains to a pedestrian the benefits of breastfeeding.
 
Nine medical students start their activity of “voice support for breastfeeding”
 
One of the activities today by striking the formula milk cans, as a symbolic meaning of protesting against the exaggerated and misleading claims in the formula milk advertisements.
 
Collect signatures for the petitions to the Department of Health and the Legislative Council for promoting breastfeeding and the prompt legislation of the Hong Kong Code of marketing breastmilk substitutes.
 
Medical students promote breastfeeding in the Causeway bay pedestrian street.



