[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No. 1 in Asia By The Economist[/title]
[date]14 Oct 2011[/date]
 
In the latest World MBA Rankings released by The Economist today, HKU's MBA Programme is again ranked No. 1 in Asia and No. 36 in the world, up 12 places from No. 48 last year.
Professor Eric Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of the University of Hong Kong, said, "we are delighted that our MBA is recognised as the best in Asia and one of the top programmes in the world. The Programme is dedicated to providing business leaders with first-class education.  We exert the utmost effort to continuously improve the MBA Programme in terms of curriculum and supporting facilities and we shall continue to cultivate those who bring positive influence to the business sector of increasing complexity and diversity."
Dr. Maurice Tse, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, remarked, "we do not only provide the best tools to equip our students, we also strive to offer them up-to-date practical skill sets and academic knowledge relevant to the business world.  Curriculum enhancement is essential to enrich the MBA Programme and to align it with the needs of students as well as the market demand.  We have engineered changes in the electives pool to enable the Programme to be more diverse and comprehensive.  We surely feel encouraged by the recognition from the international and regional communities."
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Executive Director of HKU's MBA Programme, added, "the HKU MBA Programme is not merely a means to further your career by academic learning.  We constantly work together with students and alumni to develop the Programme to make it more competitive and more conducive to knowledge and experience exchange.  We have introduced the China immersion programme in Beijing to open up a new perspective to our students.  Additionally, the campus facilities are upgraded to make the study environment more convenient and comfortable."
The HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale into week-end mode and China track, with strong demands from China, Asia, as well as Europe and North America.  It has also expanded its career development service with more experienced staff to enhance its career counselling and job placement.
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
Personal development and educational experience
Increase salary
Potential to network

For media enquiries, please contact:
Helen Wong
Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 2219 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong (HKU), Hong Kong's first and foremost university, is celebrating its centenary this year.  The University's alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government.
The Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE), established with the amalgamation of the School of Business and the School of Economics and Finance, offers a full range of high quality degree programmes and serve different business and community needs.
As Asia's premier international business school, the Faculty has pioneered the International MBA Programme with Fudan University in Shanghai back in 1998, and a joint degree programme - EMBA Global Asia with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS) in 2008. 
Its MBA full time programme, offered in partnerships with CBS and LBS, has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia's no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist in 2011. 
The Faculty continues to attract top students from Hong Kong and beyond.  In 2010, 48% of the entire non-local undergraduate admission of HKU comes to FBE. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University's top 10 programmes. 
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS).  Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). 
For more information, please visit: http://www.fbe.hku.hk/
