[title]Use of traditional Chinese interventions for people with insomnia and mood disorder the first Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) in Hong Kong[/title]
[date]15 Oct 2013[/date]
 
In Hong Kong, insomnia and mood disorder are common health problems, which not only undermine the health and well-being of an individual, but also increase the cost of healthcare. Up to date, the treatment of insomnia and mood disorder relies mainly on medication or psychotherapy. The side-effects of medication like addiction have been well-documented. In view of this, the Centre on Behavioral Health of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has been studying the effectiveness of using culturally-sensitive interventions, which integrate traditional Chinese wisdom and Western psychotherapy and use relaxing techniques including mind-body group therapy and Taoist Qigong (Five Elements and Balance Qigong), for treatment of insomnia and mood disorder, with an aim to help patients reduce their psychological dependence on medication and return to normal life.
Insomnia and mood disorder affect body and mind
According to the statistics of the Department of Health, two out of every ten people in HK (estimated to be 1.4 million) were suffering from sleep disturbance; one out of ten people reported symptoms of mood disorder over the past 12 months, hence making it a matter of urgency for mental health professionals and policymakers to deal with.
Professor Cecilia Chan Lai Wan, Professor and Head of the HKU Department of Social Work and Social Administration, and Si Yuan Professor in Health and Social Work, pointed out that stressful life events are major causes to insomnia, and that sleep disturbance and mood disorder such as anxiety and major depression are very often interrelated and reinforcing each other. Professor Chan also observed that such sleep disturbance will cease when the stressors subside.
Although medication can effectively alleviate symptoms of anxiety and depression, the side-effects can be long-lasting. Since 2001, the Centre on Behavioral Health has developed an integrative body-mind-spirit intervention approach to help patients and non-patients. The approach makes use of relaxation techniques like Qigong and breathing exercises, and is found to be effective in improving sleeping quality and reducing bad mood, hence improving the quality of life and enhancing the wellbeing of an individual.
According to Professor Chan, the body, mind, and the spirit are three inseparable components essential to our holistic well-being. The Integrative Body-Mind-Spirit approach focuses on enhancing one’s copying flexibility (physically, mentally, and spiritually) amidst of life adversity, through easy-to-learn body exercises, acupressure techniques, mindfulness practice, as well as self-enhancing experiential exercises such as The Gratitude Diary.
Dr. Yuen Lai Ping, course instructor and a Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioner, said practice of the Five Taoist Elements and Qigong Balance contains ten simple movements, which focus on mind and body, stillness and movement. Qigong can regulate breathing, restoring balance to one’s body and mind (調息，調身，調神), and hence can stimulate blood and Qi circulations (行氣活血) in the body.
About the Trainers
Professor Cecilia L.W. Chan is Professor and Head of the Department of Social Work and Social Administration, and Si Yuan Professor in Health and Social Work. She is a renowned editor and author of over 30 books and author of over two hundred articles and book chapters in health and mental health, and eastern integrative empowerment intervention and outcome research. As an advocate of patient empowerment, and culturally sensitive strength-based interventions, she developed the Integrative Body-Mind-Spirit approach to promote holistic health. Based on traditional Chinese wisdom, the approach focuses on eastern spirituality of forgiveness, appreciation and gratitude are fundamental to building a harmonious society. The work of Prof. Cecilia Chan and her colleagues on this have been published in renowned journals, and presented in conferences both local and international.
Dr. Yuen Lai Ping, a Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioner, was brought up in a Taoist monastery in Shaanxi province of China since childhood. She later received formal medical education in the Beijing University of Chinese Medicine. Dr. Yuen is an expert in integrating traditional Chinese Medicine, modern medicine, and traditional Taoist medicine concepts in her practice to achieve desired clinical outcomes. Currently practicing in Hong Kong, Dr. Yuen is also the Chairman of the International Association of Chinese Medicine, President of the International Association for Health and Yangsheng, and Honorary Clinical Associate at the Centre on Behavioral Health, The University of Hong Kong. In recent years, she has actively participated in research to investigate the mechanism and benefits of Qigong and life-nurturing (yangsheng) practices for various mental health issues, including chronic fatigue syndrome and depression.
For details , please call
Centre on Behavioral Health
Tel: (852) 2831 5158
Fax: (852) 2816 6710
Email: bhealth@hku.hk
