[title]HKU Scholar elected one of Ten Outstanding Young Jurists in China[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2005[/date]
 


Picture 1

A scholar at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has been elected one of "Ten Outstanding Young Jurists in China" by the China Law Society in the latest round.
Xue Hong, a Research Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Law at HKU, was the only woman elected to the prestigious award in late 2004.At 35, she was the youngest of the awardees at the ceremony last month in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, and the only one engaged in Private Law research.The award was given once every three years, and was only the fourth time that the China Law Society handed out the awards.
Dr Xue, whose specialty is in intellectual property and information technology law, was a member of the Expert Panel of the Ministry of Commerce for the International Negotiation for Multilateral Registration System of Geographical Indications since 2002.Geographical indications include the protection of traditional products such as Chinese rice wine or Chinese tea. Before joining HKU two and a half years ago, Dr Xue was Associate Professor at the China Foreign Affairs College in Beijing.
She also represents the Internet users of the Asia-Pacific region in the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), an internationally non-profit corporation that has responsibility for allocation of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses and domain names. Dr Xue established the first Internet User Organization in China with the support of the Internet Society of China.She is the senior consultant of the Domain Name Dispute Resolution Center, China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission. She was also the consultant of the Supreme Court for the revision of the Interpretations of Copyright Protection in Computer Network.
 "I am very honoured to receive this award from the China Law Society and would like to express my thanks to my teachers and colleagues at the Faculty of Law at HKU," said Dr Xue."This award has given me tremendous encouragement to do further research in my chosen field," she added.
Professor Johannes Chan, Dean of the Faculty of Law at HKU, said he was happy to see Dr Xue receive the award."It is an award duly deserved for Dr Xue's distinguished scholarship.We are proud to have staff of such calibre and expertise as Dr Xue," he said.
The "Ten Outstanding Young Jurists in China" award was jointly organised by the China Law Society, Legal Daily, and the China Youth Daily and the awardees were elected after a rigorous five-month selection process.
Please click the photo for download the photo of Dr Xue Hong.
For further enquiries, please contact Ms. Polo Leung of the External Relations Office at 2859 2600.

