[title]New study of HKU marine ecologist and wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC highlights scale of illegal and unreported Humphead Wrasse trade into and through HK
[/title]
[date]17 Mar 2016[/date]
 

Juvenile and subadult Humphead wrasse on retail sale in Hong Kong. (Source of photo: Professor Yvonne Sadovy of School of Biological Sciences, HKU)
Widespread illegal and unreported trade in Hong Kong and indications for illegal trade in Mainland China in the endangered and highly valued reef fish, the Humphead wrasse (HHW, So Mei in Cantonese), also known as the Napoleon fish, has been revealed in a new study produced by TRAFFIC and Professor Yvonne Sadovy of School of Biological Sciences, Swire Institute of Marine Science, The University of Hong Kong. Thousands of this fish have been seen in local and Mainland markets, and being sold in high-end luxury restaurants, of which only a few hundred are likely to have been legally imported over the last 15 months, according to available information. Many of the fish seen this year to date in retail outlets were likely illegally procured. 
This situation calls for urgent action by the Hong Kong government to ensure that imports and sales are legal that existing regulations are complied with by importers and traders, and to increase the intensity and frequency of inspections of facilities trading the species. “Failure to act to ensure legal and sustainable trade in this globally threatened species will ultimately result in higher prices for Humpheads and fewer fish available to consumers and to the poor fishermen who sell them in source countries: nobody wins,” said Professor Sadovy.


Graphic Legend: As demand for Humphead wrasse increased (dashed line), the numbers of available fish (solid line) declined highlighting the need for management. With ever growing demand, and ongoing illegal trade associated with unsustainable resource use, fish numbers are projected to decline further from source countries if trade is not brought under control.
The Humphead Wrasse was listed on Appendix II of the internationally binding Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in 2004 which mandates that international trade is legal and not threatening the species with regional or global extinction. Under the Convention, Hong Kong is obligated to monitor international trade and to ensure its legality by documenting international trade. In addition, Hong Kong requires sellers to display, in a public place, a possession licence which shows how many fish can be sold legally within a given time frame, according to measures introduced in the city in 2005. Hong Kong is the major global importer and transshipment trade hub for this globally endangered reef fish species and hence plays a massive role in its commerce.
The Humphead wrasse is a spectacular fish and one of the biggest reef fishes in the world, reported to grow as long as 2 metres. It can live longer than 30 years and is naturally rare and slow-growing. It needs 4-5 years to reach adulthood in the wild. It is a highly valued, luxury, seafood species in the live reef fish trade with retail prices at times approaching US$600 per kilogram in high end hotels in Mainland China. Indonesia is the centre of its natural distribution and is also the major global exporter of the species. Most Humphead Wrasse sold in Hong Kong are juveniles or sub-adult fish, small enough for a dinner plate, because the adults are too big. This means that many fish are sold before they reach adulthood and can replenish their wild populations. This is extremely important since all fish in sale in Hong Kong come from wild populations and it is now rare to see large adult fish in countries that still export the species. Adults are needed for fish population replenishment and recovery and if there is not enough reproduction, populations will decline, as they have done in many countries.

Following numerous reports of illegal trade into and through Hong Kong, the CITES Secretariat, at its 15th meeting in Doha 2010, issued a Decision which asked trading countries to look into violations of the Convention which undermine the long-term sustainability of the global international trade of this fish. The Decision directs Parties to investigate reported violations in relation to trade in HHW, to take appropriate enforcement actions, and to strengthen cooperation with range States and importing Parties. Being the major traders of the species, coordinated/joint action by Hong Kong and Indonesia is key to the sustainable trade of the Humphead wrasse.    
Unfortunately, as the report indicated below shows, illegal and unregulated trade in Humphead Wrasse continues, with more action by the government, and involving international cooperation, is needed. In Hong Kong over 1,000 live Humphead wrasse were counted on retail sale during a monthly study of live fish shops from January to December 2015. Since no official imports occurred in 2015 and the species is typically sold within a few weeks of import, the survey strongly suggests that many of these fish illegally entered the city.
The study, Humphead (Napoleon) wrasse Cheilinus undulatus trade into and through Hong Kong, has just been released by TRAFFIC and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Grouper and Wrasses Specialist Group (GWSG) and funded by the Secretariat of CITES and the University of Hong Kong. This report on the ongoing illegal and unregulated trade in the Humphead wrasse calls for the government to pay attention. Implementation and enforcement by the Hong Kong government of existing legislation for imports and possession of the Humphead wrasse are required to ensure compliance by businesses with CITES and local government requirements, as well as oversight of exports of the species into Mainland China. This would include regular checking of possession licences against numbers of animals on sale, and an increase in the checking of imports of live fishes and spot checks of imports and exports by Hong Kong vessels. Some of the vessels involved in illegal trade, according to observations and reliable intelligence from Indonesia, are subjected to little Hong Kong government oversight for the live fish they carry into Hong Kong waters.
Also see:
More about the repot:
http://www.biosch.hku.hk/ecology/ys.htm
Humphead Wrasses Awareness Campaign (IUCN)
http://www.iucn.org/about/work/programmes/species/who_we_are/ssc_specialist_groups_and_red_list_authorities_
directory/fishes/groupers_wrasses_sg/hhw_gwsg_home/
Mostly Legal but not Sustainable – Hong Kong’s role in the global luxury seafood trade: http://www.admcf.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/LRFFFINAL_FINAL-NOV61.pdf
More relevant stories:
https://www.google.com.hk/?gfe_rd=cr&amp;ei=03jeVoeGM4XM8gel06WYAQ&amp;gws_rd=ssl#q=admcf+mostly+legal+but+not+sustainable
Image download and illustration:
http://www.scifac.hku.hk/news/media?page=1
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Cindy Chan, HKU Faculty of Science (tel: 3917 5286/ 6703 0212; email: cindycst@hku.hk ) or Professor Yvonne Sadovy, School of Biological Sciences, the University of Hong Kong at Yjsadovy@hku.hk.

Adult male Humphead wrasse looking for food in a shallow Pacific reef ; this 120 cm individual is probably about 30 years old. (Source of photo: Professor Yvonne Sadovy of School of Biological Sciences, HKU)

Small juvenile Humphead wrasse just before loading onto a Hong Kong registered vessel in western Indonesia and exported with no CITES permit. (Source of photo: Professor Yvonne Sadovy of School of Biological Sciences, HKU)



