[title]HKU Faculty of Engineering Ranked No.19 in the World’s Top Engineering &amp; Technology Universities[/title]
[date]05 Oct 2010[/date]
 
The Faculty of Engineering of The University of Hong Kong (HKU Engineering) has been ranked No.19 by Times Higher Education (THE) Top 50 Engineering and Technology Universities 2010.
In September, HKU has been ranked the world's 21st and Asia's number one in THE's World University Rankings; Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) has also ranked the University as top in Asia and the world's 23rd.
"I am extremely pleased that HKU Engineering has been ranked among the top 20 engineering and technology universities in the world, and the best engineering faculty in Hong Kong.  The accomplishments that we have made were the result of the hard work and dedication of all my colleagues, and the support from alumni and friends." said Prof W C Chew, Dean of Engineering, HKU.
Professor Chew was glad to see more Asian institutions ranked in the world's top engineering and technology universities, more than any other subject rankings of THE, which reflects the high levels of investment in engineering and technology in Asia.  The top Asian universities include National University of Singapore, HKU, Tsinghua University, Peking University, University of Tokyo, and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
 "To become a top Engineering school worldwide, I would continue to encourage faculty members to conduct world-class research and teaching activities, and to collaborate with industries on research projects.  HKU Engineering will continue the tradition of educating the best minds who will be global leaders and drivers of tomorrow's technologies," Prof Chew said.
The Times Higher Education has published its annual rankings since 2004.  This year, they have completely overhauled the methodology and used 13 separate performance indicators to capture the full range of university activities.  The top 50 institutions by subject were based on criteria and weightings that were carefully selected after extensive consultation.
About the Faculty of Engineering, HKU
The history of the Faculty of Engineering at The University of Hong Kong dates back to the very foundation of the University in 1911 and the appointment of the first Chair of Engineering in 1912.   There are five departments in the Faculty: Department of Civil Engineering, Department of Computer Science, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering.  The Faculty occupies two major buildings, the eight-storey Haking Wong Building and a light engineering building, the Chow Yei Ching Building, which in total, account for some 25,000 m2 of accommodation.
As one of the University's founding faculties, the mission of the Faculty is to provide a well-rounded curriculum and high quality engineering education in the global knowledge-based economy.  In addition, the Faculty engages in innovative, high impact basic and applied research within and across disciplines.  The emphasis is on the balance between technical and non-technical subjects, theoretical foundation and practical design and applications, and the education of the mind as well as the whole person.
The Faculty of Engineering has been making significant contributions to Hong Kong and the engineering community world-wide by training top-rated engineers. Amongst our graduates, there are internationally renowned engineers as well as eminent community leaders.  Today, the Faculty of Engineering continues to attract the best students from Hong Kong and the region to study the many diverse programs, with an annual average intake of about 500 students into the undergraduate curricula. The Faculty also offers part-time (lasting two to three years) and full-time (lasting one to two years) MSc programs by coursework to more than 1000 students, as well as well-established MPhil and PhD programs to over 400 research students.
For more information, please visit
- Ends -
Media enquiries:
Ms Veronica Leung
Faculty of Engineering
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: 2219 4707
Email: veronica.leung@hku.hk
Ms Melanie Wan
Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: 2859 2600
Email: melwkwan@hku.hk  
