[title]The Fourth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships at HKU[/title]
[date]13 Apr 2010[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated its Fourth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 13). 
At the ceremony, the Hung Hing-Hing Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Science and Technology, a university-wide scheme in support of the appointment of international visiting professors, was announced. The ceremony also presented the successive appointment to one Professorship.
The Hung Hing-Hing Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Science and Technology was established by the Hung Hing Ying &amp; Leung Hau Ling Charitable Foundation with a HK$20 million donation which will be matched by the University to form an endowment fund of HK$40 million.  The annual investment return will be used to support, each year, at least one Distinguished Visiting Professor, who must be at the forefront of their particular field of expertise.
Endowed Professorships at HKU are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.  It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon our distinguished academics.  With a close partnership between the academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which will be matched by the University with an equal amount.  The interests generated by the $20 million endowment will be used to support the respective area of academic excellence.  An Advisory Committee ensures the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. The Committee members include Dr Raymond Ch'ien (Chairman), Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Dr Eden Woon.
A total of 41 Endowed Professorships have been established at HKU since 2005.
Message of Thanks
by Professor Malik Peiris, Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Medical Science
"Pro-Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen:
It is my honour and privilege to represent my fellow Endowed Professors in extending a Message of Thanks to our donors for their generosity of spirit and to their commitment to fostering learning and research excellence within this University.
Universities are at the cutting edge of generating new knowledge. A Chinese proverb says that ‘Learning that does not daily increase will daily decrease'. The resource requirements that enable research excellence cannot completely be met from public funding. Universities thrive on community partnerships and endowed professorships are a manifestation of such support.
The Ceremony today brings together philanthropists from far and wide, from diverse backgrounds; families whose dynasties span centuries and those who are self-made entrepreneurs or professionals, all who have made remarkable contributions to our society. Their benevolence has already helped many. In creating these endowed professorships, you are indeed following in a long tradition that goes back almost two thousand years.
The Roman Emperor and philosopher Marcus Aurelius created endowed Chairs in Athens for each of the major schools of philosophy. In the 16th Century, the Countess of Richmond created the first endowed chairs in divinity at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. But this is still a very young tradition in Hong Kong and Asia in general.
At The University of Hong Kong, the first Endowed Professorships of our era were established in 2005 and 41 such Professorships and two Distinguished Visiting Professorship schemes have been established since then; 5 in Social Sciences, 4 in Law, 3 in Business and Economics, 2 each in Arts, Science and Engineering, 1 in Dentistry and 22 in Medicine. This diversity is indeed mirrored tonight - this ceremony highlights 7 Faculties of the University; namely, Arts, Dentistry, Engineering, Law, Medicine, Science and Social Sciences.
Your philanthropy is indeed trail-blazing and far-sighted, and goes toward providing self-sustaining support to foster areas of academic excellence far into the future. There are also some "firsts" tonight: the very first Endowed Professorship in the Faculty of Dentistry and the first cross-disciplinary Endowed Professorship spanning the Humanities and Medicine.
There are also examples of benefactors who have endowed more than one Professorship. Professor Samaranayake and I have the honour today to receive Endowed Professorships in Dental Science and Medical Science respectively, both endowed by Dr Tam Wah-ching. Co-incidentally, both of us hail from the Island of Sri Lankans and were classmates at University.
Speaking on behalf of all 10 colleagues of mine who have been bestowed Endowed Professorships today, I wish to sincerely thank our benefactors. We are honoured by your support and humbled by your generosity. Academic excellence is of course not achieved in isolation and your recognition goes beyond the 10 of us - it extends towards many of our colleagues, collaborators and students, who share in this honour and will benefit from your support. The torch will be passed on and your generosity will indeed continue to nurture many generations of academics, teachers and researchers at HKU in the future.
May I take this opportunity to thank my own research team members, research collaborators and students, many of whom are here today - this award is also an award for each of you. I am sure my colleagues share the same sentiments.
In conclusion, I wish also to thank everyone here this evening for joining us on this memorable day.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the list of the Endowed Professorships presented at the Fourth Inauguration please click here.  For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office at 2241-5677 or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) at 2859 2606 (email: pychoy@hku.hk), Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU.
