[title]The 172nd Congregation of The University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]06 Dec 2005[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) conferred degrees upon a total of 6,048 graduates at its 172nd Congregation held at the Hong Kong Coliseum today (December 6, 2005).This year, 2,837 graduates were awarded postgraduate degrees, including 211 at the doctoral level and 2,626 at the master level. 3,211 graduates received bachelor degrees. The Pro-Chancellor of the University, Dr the Hon David K P Li, presided over the Congregation.
In his address, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui highlighted some of the most recent achievements of the University, one of which was the selection of HKU as one of the world's top 50 universities by the Times Higher Education Supplement. Meanwhile, HKU's MBA programme was ranked the first in Asia and Australasia by the Economist Intelligence Unit, and the recent collaboration with the London Business School has made HKU an even more competitive institution in the field of business studies. 
HKU is the trademark of research excellence. Professor Tsui was delighted to point out that the University has continued to receive the largest share of grants from the Research Grants Council in eight out of the past nine years. Moreover, 39 academic staff members have been regarded as the world's top 1 per cent scientists by the Institute for Scientific Information. HKU's edge in pioneering research has been further strengthened by the founding of the Endowed Professorships earlier this year. Professor Tsui was pleased to share a piece of good news: there would be an announcement of at least another ten endowments in the coming months. Of course, the setting up of the second state key laboratory, the State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Science, confirmed HKU as a leading research-led institution in the region.
The reputation of HKU has also been built up by top-performing students. Professor Tsui was proud to report that HKU students won a number of important awards. To name a few, students from the School of Business won the Qualification Programme Case Analysis Competition, which was organized by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants; law students excelled in two important moot court competitions in Geneva and Gold Coast Australia respectively. Moreover, the University has continued to admit the best in local, mainland and overseas students. HKU again had the largest number of students from the Early Admission Scheme, and the mainland enrollment has continued to be competitive, with close to 5,000 applications being received.
The distinctive benchmark of HKU's success was the amount of support that received from the community. A $1-billion donation from Dr Li Ka Shing and a pledge of $500 million from Dr Stanley Ho, as well as other support from over 500 donors. Professor Tsui remarked that the above achievements are "the endorsements that add up one thing: the name of HKU rings loud and clear."
Looking ahead for the future, HKU will strive to sustain its prominence in research and teaching and to be well-equipped for the changes and challenges posed by the implementation of 3-3-4 curriculum. One of those priorities in the University's strategic plans, Professor Tsui particularly spoke of during the ceremony, was the commitment to internationalisation: "the young minds we train for the future will be equipped with an international outlook, and ready to make a contribution as a citizen of the world." The University, according to Professor Tsui, has aimed to increase the proportion of non-local students to 20 per cent.
Professor Tsui finally exhorted the graduates to learn from their seniors, many of whom are leaders of the community, "This is the New Call to Duty: the future will belong to those who can bring together vision, reason and courage in a personal commitment to the future prosperity of one's society, its cultures and its enterprises." 
For media enquiries, please contact Elsie Leung of HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
