[title]RFID Middleware enables enterprises to reap the full benefits of RFID Technology through seamless and effortless system integration[/title]
[date]07 Feb 2007[/date]
 
The mandate from global suppliers has forced manufacturers in Hong Kong and Pearl River Delta Region in China to take the RFID (Radio Frequency Identification)-compliant in their supply chain process. It becomes a challenge to suppliers in the Pearl River Delta Region. 
With the support from the Innovation and Technology Commission (ITF) of Hong Kong SAR Government, the University of Hong Kong's E-Business Technology Institute (ETI) has recently developed a flexible RFID middleware that can help companies to integrate backend systems with RFID equipments in a time saving, cost effective and painless manner. The RFID Middleware aims to improve operational efficiency and visibility in logistics and supply chain management. 
ETI's Senior Assistant Director of Strategy, Planning and Technology Transfer, Mr. Edward C. Wong said, "RFID Middleware facilitates RFID adoption in Pearl River Delta Region in China. Enterprises can customize RFID solutions based on the needs in their business operation for tackling typical business challenges. The affordable deployment cost will attract enterprises to implement RFID solution into their operation and reap the benefits of using RFID Technologies." 
Mr. Peter Li, the Director of Research and Business Development of Hong Kong R&amp;D Centre for Logistics and Supply Chain Management Enabling Technologies, stated "The ITF funded project RFID Middleware for Enterprise Application was completed successfully in December 2006 that contributes meaningful and beneficial results to the logistics and supply chain management." 
In this Middleware project, there are five companies in Pearl River Delta participated as RFID pilot users. The RFID enterprise solutions derived from the Middleware have been deployed by different industries such as 3rd Party logistics provider, container depot and manufacturing plants. One of these solutions is "Work-In-Progress Monitoring System" in a sanitary ware manufacturing plant, which allows which allows the management to obtain timely and accurate information on the efficiency of their production lines. In this case, with the middleware and RFID devices, visibility on the performance of manufacturing plant is increased and the company is capable to identify areas for improvement. Other applications such as ship-in and ship-out container management and positioning allows "track-and-trace" the container location in the huge container depot in an efficient way, thus increasing operational efficiency. 
About E-Business Technology Institute of the University of Hong Kong 
The E-Business Technology Institute (ETI) was established as an independent R&amp;D organization of the University of Hong Kong in September 1999, with IBM China/Hong Kong as its core sponsor and technology partner. Its mission is to conduct research on e-business technologies, and promote and foster technology exchange and cooperation. ETI has developed several technologies in collaboration with its partners within and outside HKU. 
ETI expertise covers logistics and supply chain management, wireless security, pervasive computing, e-payment systems, XML data integration and management, business intelligence (BI) and data mining. With the support of ITF and its partners, ETI has developed a number of technologies, such as RFID Middleware, new data mining system called KnowBiz, the business-to-consumer (B2C) platform called Mega Payment System, and SAFE Connect, which provides m-commerce security using the Server-Assisted Wireless Public Key Infrastructure technology.

