[title]170th Congregation of the University of Hong Kong (Press Release)[/title]
[date]02 Dec 2004[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) conferred degrees upon a total of 5,700 graduates at its 170th Congregation held at the Hong Kong Coliseum today (December 2, 2004).This year, 2,523 graduates were awarded postgraduate degrees, including 211 at the doctoral level and 2,312at the master level.3,177 graduates received bachelor degrees. The Pro-Chancellor of the University, Dr. the Hon. David K.P. Li, presided over the Congregation.
In his address, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui recapped some of HKU's achievements in the past year.He noted the ranking of HKU by the Times Higher Education Supplement as 39th among the top 200 universities in the world, fifth in Asia and first in Hong Kong.
On research excellence, Professor Tsui said HKU's strength in research had enabled the university to collect the largest share of the research grants from the Research Grant Council in six of the past seven years.In addition, the establishment of a State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases at HKU fully demonstrates the university's excellence in this area.In other areas, the designation by the World Trade Organization (WTO) of HKU as its Regional Training Centre for the Asia Pacific region aptly illustrates its excellence in research and teaching in law, economics and social sciences.
Professor Tsui said he was proud to see the university's undergraduate progammes had continued to admit the best Hong Kong students, and attracted a growing number of outstanding students from outside Hong Kong, including the Mainland."This allows our local students to gain an international perspective while studying in HKU," he said.Professor Tsui said as a means to enhance the university's international competitiveness, HKU aimed to double the proportion of non-local undergraduates to 20% of the total student population, and to increase to the same percentage HKU students in exchange programmes in five years.
Professor Tsui said that at a time when resources were constrained, HKU was still able to initiate academic programmes, thanks to supporters in the community who had given the university over $500 million in the past 18 months, attracting an additional $250 million from the Matching Grant Scheme. 
Reminding graduates that a HKU degree carries responsibilities as well as privileges, Professor Tsui said graduates have "a responsibility to live up to, and if possible, add even more luster, to that hard-won reputation."
Professor Tsui exhorted the graduates to practise lifelong learning."No formal course of study can ever hope to dispense even a small fraction of the infinite knowledge that exists," he said.
 
