[title]A new home of knowledge to nurture legal leaders of tomorrow
HKU holds Dedication Ceremony for Lui Che Woo Law Library
on Centennial Campus[/title]
[date]30 Oct 2012[/date]
 
A dedication ceremony was held today (October 30) to celebrate the new home of the Lui Che Woo Law Library at the Centennial Campus of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), and to thank Dr Lui Che Woo for his generous support to the library to make it a nurturing ground for legal professionals. 
The Law Library has been named after Dr Lui Che Woo since 1997 in recognition of his donation. In 2010, the University received further support from Dr Lui for setting up an extended law library in a purpose-built building for the Faculty of Law at the Centennial Campus.
Thanking Dr Lui for his support, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: “Legal education is vital for Hong Kong, and HKU has had a proud track record in the legal field. I thank Dr Lui for sharing this same vision in nurturing the leaders of tomorrow. The Law Library has always been an integral part of the Faculty of Law. It has long served generations of students, professors, researchers, as well as members of the legal profession in Hong Kong and even abroad.”
Dr Lui, GBM, Founder and Chairman of the K Wah Group, is a distinguished philanthropist. He has been particularly supportive of the development of medical care, education, information technology, as well as hotel and tourism, in Mainland China, Macau, Hong Kong and the US.
Together with Professor Tsui and the Dean of Law Professor Johannes Chan, Dr Lui and Mrs Lui unveiled a plague commemorating Dr Lui’s benevolence at the ceremony.
Professor Chan thanked Dr Lui for his support and said: ”Dr Lui and the Faculty shares a common vision of international outreach and enhancing the quality of legal education to train not just good lawyers but leaders who have a passion to serve, wherever they are.”
The new Lui Che Woo Law Library covers 1,500 m2 of floor area and houses more than 120,000 volumes of books, with improved layout and functional spaces that align with the needs of users for modern day digital legal research.
For enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


 Dedication Ceremony for Lui Che Woo Law Library

.Dedication Ceremony for Lui Che Woo Law Library



Dr Lui Che Woo and law students in front of Lui Che Woo Law Library

Dr Lui Che Woo with law students and teachers


