[title]Literati Evening: Qin Music Concert at the Summer Institute in the Arts &amp; Humanities[/title]
[date]27 Jul 2009[/date]
 
The Summer Institute in the Arts &amp; Humanities is gathering top scholars and renowned musicians at The University of Hong Kong from 13 July - 14 August this summer. One of the highlights is the Literati Evening: Qin Music Concert to be held on 29 July (Wednesday) at 7:30pm, University Museum &amp; Gallery, HKU. The concert is open to the public, admission is free - all are welcome. Details are as follows:
Literati Evening: Qin Music Concert
Wednesday 29 July 2009, 7:30pm
T. T. Tsui gallery, University Museum &amp; Gallery, HKU
Performers:
Lau Chor-wah
Tse Chun-yan
Sou Si-tai
Yang Yuanzheng
Jenny Lee (RTHK Radio 4's presenter and also the moderator of the concert)
The five qin recitalists will play the oldest Chinese musical instrument, sharing tranquil moments of qin with the audience.
About Qin 
Regarded as "the father of Chinese music," qin is a plucked seven-string instrument of great subtlety and variety in sound. Legend has it that qin, the most revered instrument in China, has more than 2000 years of history. It has been closely associated with the intellects; the Chinese philosopher Confucius was a qin player. In 2003, qin music was proclaimed as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.
About the Performers
Lau Chor-wah
In the early 70s, Lau studied qin under Tsar Teh-yun. In the 80s, she at different times received training from the late Zhang Ziqian and Yao Bingyan. These invaluable experiences enabled her to establish her unique performing style. Lau had also taught qin in The Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts and the Music Department of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. She is currently engaged in teaching and research activities in the university, and the promotion of qin music.
Sou Si-tai
Sou studied xiao and dizi under Wang Quan, qin under Tsar Teh-yun, and the making of qin under Cai Changshou. He is currently a creative artist and has been engaged in art education to promote various traditional Chinese art forms. Being the director of the Deyin Qin Society, Sou is also a tutor in qin at the Department of Music of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He takes part in many concerts and the making of qin.
Tse Chun-yan
Tse was a harmonica player in his young age. Later, he studied guzheng under Choi Ngar-si and Chinese music composition under Kwan Sing-yau. In the 80s, he started studying qin under Kwan Sing-yau, Lau Chor-wah and Tsar Teh-yun. He composed a number of qin pieces and had numerous public performances. He is also interested in research on qin music and had published articles in periodicals such as Musicology in China. Being a retired medical doctor, Tse has just completed his dissertation in musicology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong
Yang Yuanzheng
Yang Yuanzheng received his degrees in musicology, mechanics and engineering from Peking University and The University of Hong Kong. He held research appointments at Princeton University and Utrecht University, before joining The University of Hong Kong as a research fellow. His research interests include history and theory of East Asian music, manuscript studies, and art history. He studied qin under Wu Wen'guang and Chen Changlin.
Jenny Lee
Lee started learning piano and qin with Lau Chor Wah at a young age. She then read music at Kings College London and Royal Academy of Music, graduated with a Masters degree. She is now a Presenter on Radio 4, producing ‘Nocturne', interviews, artsnews program and documentaries on music in China, while participating in RTHK TV productions, including the recent TV series, ‘Music and Beyond'. She taught music at HKUSpace and Eduarts, also was MC for Home Affair Bureau and Hong Kong Arts Festival's events. Still in her teens, she hosted an introductory film on Qin by the Chinese Civilization Centre at City U and gave talks on qin at RAM. She now continues her qin study with Lau Chor Wah while learning Chinese calligraphy from her father.
THE SUMMER INSTITUTE IN THE ARTS &amp; HUMANITIES: The University of Hong Kong aims to strengthen its commitment to arts and humanities through its newly-formed Summer Institute in the Arts &amp; Humanities. Launched in 2009 by the Faculty of Arts, the Summer Institute celebrates human culture through a series of events and courses for secondary school students, university students and the general public. The theme of this year is "China-West", which runs during the summer from 13 July-14 August, and will involve both local and internationally renowned scholars and artists.
FREE ADMISSION
Seats are Limited - First Come, First Served.
Enquiries: 2219 4291
Media Contact
Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk
