[title]HKU holds Information Day for undergraduate admissions 2015
admission talks and new dual degree programmes
[/title]
[date]07 Nov 2015[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held an Information Day for undergraduate admissions today (November 7).The opening ceremony, held at the Grand Hall, Lee Shau Kee Lecture Centre, Centennial Campus, was officiated by Acting President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Tam.
The Information Day aims to introduce HKU’s academic programmes and curriculum, student activities and campus facilities to the public, in particular secondary school students, teachers and parents. Information booths were set up by the ten faculties and talks were held on the wide variety of academic programmes offered. Teaching and learning facilities, teaching departments and some halls of residence were also open to the public for a better understanding of HKU's campus and hall life.
Thousands of students and parents attended the two undergraduate admissions talks hosted by Chairman of University Admissions Committee Dr Philip Beh and Director of Undergraduate Admissions and International Student Exchange Professor John A. Spinks for JUPAS and non-JUPAS candidates respectively. Apart from the HKU admissions arrangements and entry requirements, the talks also mentioned in the next three years, HKU would provide at least one overseas opportunity for each student. 
HKU also announced that it will jointly offer undergraduate dual-degree programmes with leading universities including The Paris Institute of Political Studies.  Students enrolled to the programmes may complete the first two years of study overseas, and then return to Hong Kong and finish the third and fourth year of study in the Faculty of Business and Economics, Faculty of Arts or Faculty of Social Sciences at HKU.  Students would be awarded two degrees from HKU and the overseas university after completion of the programmes.
The new Young Scientist Scheme (YSS) will be launched by the Faculty of Science in 2016/17 academic year, of which brilliant students in “6901 Bachelor of Science” can engage in research early. Students accepted to YSS will be guaranteed with enrolment in the Faculty’s flagship Summer Research Fellowship (SRF) Scheme to conduct research under the supervision of the University’s professors in the first summer, a further SRF or Overseas Research Fellowship (ORF) in a foreign institution in subsequent years, guidance from a research mentor individually from the start of the undergraduate study, international exchange, attending international science conference, and enrolment in the Frontiers of Science Honours Seminar to learn how award-winning professors solve their research problems.

HKU Information Day for undergraduate admissions 2015

HKU Information Day for undergraduate admissions 2015

For more information about the Information Day 2015, please visit: http://www.infoday.hku.hk/
For admissions information, please visit: www.hku.hk/dse.
Media enquiries:
Communications and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (tel: 2857 8555 / email: rhea.leung@hku.hk ).
