[title]Review Confirms the Effectiveness of HKU’s Governance and Management Reforms[/title]
[date]18 Jun 2009[/date]
 
A recent stock-taking exercise of the progress of the Fit for Purpose report that was adopted by the Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) in 2003 confirmed the overall success of the University in taking on board the recommendations and reforms in its governance and management structure.
HKU embarked on a major transformation programme in 2003 to align itself with international best practice in university governance and management structure, following the recommendations in a report by Lord Sutherland on the future development of higher education published by the University Grants Committee (UGC) in 2002. 
A three-person review panel, comprising Professor John Niland (former Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of New South Wales), Professor Neil L. Rudenstine (former President of Harvard University) and The Hon. Justice Andrew Li (the Chief Justice of Hong Kong who had been the Chairman of the University and Polytechnic Grants Committee (now UGC) for many years) was established by the University to review its governance and management structure. 
The panel submitted its report (the Fit for Purpose report) to the Council in February 2003, with 17 recommendations on means of enhancing the University governance and management structure and procedures.
All recommendations in the Fit for Purpose report were accepted by the Council of the University for implementation in 2003.  These recommendations include the reduction of the size of the University's governance bodies, the reorganization of the management team, the establishment of full-time appointed Faculty Dean positions, the introduction of the trusteeship concept in membership of the Council, student and staff memberships on Council, changes to the staff grievances procedures, clearer definitions of the role of the governance bodies, improvement of communications, and streamlining the University committee structure. 
Among the recommendations, there was also one about conducting regular reviews of the effectiveness of the governance structure.  It was recommended that the University should review the effectiveness of its governance structure every 5 years.
The first 5-year review was conducted recently, and the University again asked Professor John Niland to assist in the review.  Professor Niland visited the University many times in the past months to study the University operations under the reformed governance structure, and meet staff, students, alumni and other stakeholders of the University to exchange views.
Professor Niland completed his review earlier this month, and the report was considered and accepted by the Council at its meeting on May 26, 2009.  Professor Niland has concluded that the University has reformed its governance and management structure successfully.  Of the 17 recommendations in the Fit for Purpose report ,  11 have been implemented in full.  Among the remaining recommendations, the intent of 3 recommendations has been achieved through means other than the specified letter of the recommendations, and 2 have been implemented but not yet fully completed.
Professor Niland has pointed out a few areas which require further attention of the University, which include the committee structure; the appointment of a full-time Director of Human Resources, development of middle-level managers; new IT systems; and internal communications and engagement strategies. 
The University Council, in accepting the review report, has resolved to set up a small working group to look into these areas, with a view to further enhancing the University governance and management systems.
In the conclusion of the report, Professor Niland remarks: "There can be no doubt that the Council, led by the Chairman, and the Vice-Chancellor with his senior colleagues, have seriously addressed the matters raised in Fit for Purpose.  This has been no simple exercise but it has been very well executed.  In terms of governance reforms and transformation of management systems, HKU is a leading edge University". 
Dr. Victor Fung, the Council Chairman, said "I am heartened to see the governance reform exercise concluded with an encouraging report from Professor John Niland.  This would not have been possible without the concerted effort of the Council and all members of the University family."
