[title]Professor of Nanotechnology to deliver William Mong Distinguished Lecture in HKU[/title]
[date]11 Dec 2003[/date]
 
Professor C T Sun is to deliver a William Mong Distinguished Lecture entitled Implications of Nanotechnology to Solid Mechanics at 5:30pm on Friday, December 12, 2003 at Lecture Theatre A, Chow Yei Ching Building, the University of Hong Kong.
Nanotechnology is now considered one of the most promising technologies to be explored.This technology may have tremendous impact on information technology, aerospace and defense industries, and human health.Many efforts have been made to develop and apply materials on the nano scale.Some promising applications have already begun to emerge, and these applications have also brought new challenges in modeling and characterizing mechanical properties of materials at the nanometer scale.
In this lecture, Professor Sun will review some of the issues in mechanics of nanomaterials. In addition, a method for developing a semi-continuum model for plate-like nanomaterials will be presented.
Professor C.T. Sun has been engaged in composites research for more than 30 years.He has made significant contributions to various aspects of composite materials and structures.In addition, Professor Sun has published extensively in the areas of fracture mechanics and smart materials and structures.His latest interest is in modeling nano-structured materials.He has published about 250 journal papers and nearly the same number of conference papers.
Professor Sun received his undergraduate education at National Taiwan University.He obtained his M.S. in 1965 and his Ph.D. in 1967 from Northwestern University.He joined the Purdue University in 1968 and is presently Neil A. Armstrong Distinguished Professor in the School of Aeronautics and Astronautics of the University.
Professor Sun is currently on several editorial boards and is the Fellows of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and American Society for Composites.Professor Sun is the recipient of the 1995 Distinguished Research Award of the American Society for Composites; the 1997 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Structures, Structural Dynamics and Materials Award; and the 1997 Medal of Excellence in Composite Materials, Center for Composite Materials, University of Delaware.
Members of the Press and interested parties are cordially invited to attend.For enquiries, please contact engineering faculty office at 2859 2803.
 
