[title]Electrical Engineering Expert to Deliver William Mong Distinguished Lecture[/title]
[date]07 May 2004[/date]
 
The latest in the series of William Mong Distinguished Lectures 2003-2004 features Professor Graham C. Goodwin, from the University of Newcastle in Australia, on signal processing optimization.
Entitled "What do Elvis Presley, Mobile Phones &amp; Lap Top Computers have in Common?", the lecture will take place at 5:30pm on Monday, May 10, 2004, at Lecture Theatre A, Chow Yei Ching Building, the University of Hong Kong. 
Professor Goodwin is a Fellow of the British, Australian and Swedish Academies of Sciences.In his lecture, Professor Goodwin will illustrate the common link between Elvis Presley, mobile phones and lap top computers through a particular optimization problem involving a finite set of decision variables.
This problem arises in a vast range of applications including: production of audio CDs, power supplies for lap top computers, equalization of digital communication channels, and more technical problems such as: filter design with quantized coefficients, and multi-bank filters.
Professor Goodwin has been with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Newcastle, Australia since 1974.He obtained a B.Sc (Physics), B.E (Electrical Engineering), and Ph.D from the University of New South Wales.From 1970 until 1974, he was a lecturer in the Department of Computing and Control, Imperial College, London. He is the co-author of eight monographs, four edited volumes and several hundred technical papers.
Professor Goodwin is the recipient of several international prizes including the USA Control Systems Society 1999 Hendrik Bode Lecture Prize, a Best Paper award by IEEE Trans. Automatic Control, a Best Paper award by Asian Journal of Control, and Best Engineering Text Book award from the International Federation of Automatic Control.
Members of the Press and interested parties are cordially invited to attend.For enquiries, please contact the Faculty of Engineering at 2859 2803.
 
