[title]First Legal Information Website for Seniors in Hong Kong –
Senior CLIC s100.hk – launches on 15th April 2013
[/title]
[date]14 Apr 2013[/date]
 
How do you make a will? What is an “Advance Directive”? How will my property be dealt with if I get dementia? From 15th April 2013, answers to these and other questions seniors may have can be found in the first bilingual legal-information website for seniors in Hong Kong: the Senior CLIC website (www.s100.hk or www.seniorclic.hk).
Sponsored by the Home Affairs Bureau of the HKSAR Government, the Senior CLIC website is the second legal information website developed by the Law and Technology Centre of The University of Hong Kong for a specific group of people in Hong Kong. The first website of this kind, the Youth CLIC website (youth.clic.org.hk or youthclic.hk), was launched in 2012.
The Senior CLIC website provides free legal information on 27 legal topics of concern to seniors. The topics are divided into five groups: (1) housing and accommodation, (2) smart elderly, (3) work and retirement, (4) farewell to life and (5) health and care (please see the detailed list of topics in the appendix).
From the website URL and interface to topic selection and presentation style, Senior CLIC is tailor-made in every respect to suit the needs of seniors. The website URL, s100.hk, has a special meaning. The “S” represents seniors and “100” reflects the hundreds of possible legal issues which are being explained in our website. Senior CLIC has been designed as a legal guide for the elderly. The contents were written by legal experts, with the relevant laws and legal concepts being explained in plain language.
Much of the legal information provided on Senior CLIC is also available in audio form. The website has an audio page (in Cantonese only) which summarizes the 27 topics in audio clips of three to four minutes each. The audio clips are also available in CD form for seniors who do not use computers. Seniors, care takers or organizations can send their name and correspondence address via post, fax or email to get a free copy of the CD and a transcript of the audio clips.
How to get the Senior CLIC CD and transcript:
By post: Law and Technology Centre, Cheng Yu Tung Tower, Centennial Campus, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong. (No self-addressed envelope is required.)
By fax: 2549-8495
By email: cd@s100.hk
For media inquiries, please contact our Content Editor, Ms. Jessica Wu, at 3917-4236 or 9480-9911.
 To visit Senior CLIC website prior to the official launch, please login the website with the following username and password:
Username: senior
Password: sclic2013
About the Law and Technology Centre (www.lawtech.hk)
The Law and Technology Centre (LawTech Centre), established in 2001, is a joint Centre of the Faculty of Law and the Department of Computer Science at The University of Hong Kong. The Centre is managed by a committee headed by two co-directors, Dr. Kevin K. H. Pun from the Computer Science Department, and Prof. Anne Cheung from the Law Department.
With a view to promoting and supporting the rule of law in Hong Kong, the Centre has long been committed to serving the community by making legal information available on the Internet free access by the public. In 2002, it launched the “Hong Kong Legal Information Institute” (HKLII) at www.hklii.hk offering primary legal information relating to Hong Kong, including legislation, regulations, case law, practice directions and law reform reports.
Currently, HKLII attracts about 2,400 visitors per day.
About the CLIC Project (www.clic.org.hk)
With funding assistance and substantial contribution by the Department of Justice of HKSAR Government, in 2007, the LawTech Centre launched the “Community Legal Information Centre” (CLIC) at www.clic.org.hk specifically catered for people with no legal background. It provides basic information on more than 20 legal topics that have most interest and direct bearing on the daily lives of ordinary citizens in Hong Kong. The topics include employment disputes, landlord and tenant, personal injuries, protection for investors and structured products, matrimonial matters, etc.
CLIC is a quick Internet guide for the general public to find relevant legal information in Hong Kong. It aims to help citizens acquire a basic understanding of the relevant law before seeking advice from lawyers, and to inform the general public about where to seek free or subsidized legal assistance.
The average number of visitors for CLIC is about 1,500 per day.
About Youth CLIC website (youth.clic.org.hk/ )
Sponsored by the Home Affairs Bureau of the HKSAR Government, Youth CLIC website was established in 2012. The website provides free legal information on about 70 offences and legal issues concerning young people. Topics covered by Youth CLIC include sexual offences, Internet crimes, school bullying, triad-related offences, theft and drug offences. More than 20 videos are shown to illustrate different crime scenarios based on true cases. Answers to the questions posed in the videos are written by legal experts. Viewers can click to specific legal terms which interlinks with brief explanations of relevant crimes or Hong Kong ordinances.
Besides the website, Youth CLIC also set up a channel in Youtube and a page in Facebook to enhance interaction with young people. Selected news clippings with recommended Youth CLIC website content in Youth CLIC Facebook Page (Chinese only) help young people better understand the legal issues they may encounter in daily life.
