[title]HKU Professor CM Che Meeting Chief Executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen in the Government House[/title]
[date]21 Mar 2007[/date]
 


Recipient of the First Class Prize of the State Natural Science Award for 2006 Professor Che Chi-ming, Hui Wan Hann Chair of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), was invited by Chief Executive and the Chancellor of The University of Hong Kong Donald Tsang Yam-kuen for tea yesterday (20 March 2007). In the Government House, Professor Che shared his vision to promote the development of scientific research in Hong Kong. Also in the meeting were Head of Department of Chemistry Professor DL Philips and two members of Professor Che's research team. 
Professor Che was grateful for the invitation and said, "we are touched by the Chief Executive's sincerity and kindness, his support to higher education and scientific research is indeed a great encouragement to us." 
Chief Executive congratulated Professor Che for his achievements and asked to send his congratulations to the Faculty of Science and members of the Department of Chemistry at HKU. The Chief Executive said, "it is a significant recognition for a Hong Kong-born scientist to be awarded this distinguished international prize. The Government places great emphasis on the pursuit of excellence, and now we can see that Hong Kong is able to excel in different areas including scientific research. The University of Hong Kong is known for its research excellence, and I am particularly impressed by its Faculty of Medicine's contributions during the SARS period as well as its research achievements in Chemistry. " 
Professor Che expressed his wishes to further strengthen HKU's capabilities of research in Chemistry, with the world-renowned California Institute of Technology as a target. The Chief Executive was supportive of the idea and said, "I fully understand that research and development can be very costly and it requires enormous amount of resources. The Government values research and development and we will try our best to provide assistance and help to overcome problems, in order to take research and development in Hong Kong to new heights." Professor Che was very pleased with the Chief Executive's commitment. 
As outstanding young members of Professor Che's research team who participated in the award-winning research project, Dr. SW Lai and Dr. JS Huang, currently Research Assistant Professors in HKU's Department of Chemistry who were at Oxford University and Harvard University respectively as researchers, shared their research experience and ideas with the Chief Executive. Life as a student at Harvard University was a topic of common interest between the Chief Executive and Dr. JS Huang. The Chief Executive told them, "I hope Professor Che will continue to lead in the research and development of Chemistry, to groom young local research talents like you, and to help you attain higher levels of distinction in your work." 
Dr. SW Lai graduated from The University of Hong Kong and was awarded post-doctoral fellowship by the Croucher Foundation to study at Oxford University. Dr. JS Huang was jointly supervised by The University of Hong Kong and Nankai University as a research student, before he received a scholarship from Harvard University to further his research work. Currently they are Research Assistant Professors in HKU's Department of Chemistry and have been successful in all their applications for Government's research fund. 
As Head of Department of Chemistry, Professor DL Philips gave a brief introduction of the departments' work, its research projects and academic staff. The Chief Executive showed great interest in how to attract overseas academics to come to teach in Hong Kong. Professor Philips explained, "as a foreigner, I really like Hong Kong's environment, which is why I choose to work in HKU. I believe that your support to higher education will definitely help Hong Kong become an education hub in the region." 
Professor Che Chi Ming, Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), received the First Class Prize of the State Natural Science Award (SNSA) for 2006 from Premier Wen Jiabao in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on February 27, 2007. Early in 1995, at the age of just 38, Professor Che was elected to the Chinese Academy of Sciences and was the youngest academician and the first Hong Kong scientist to be so honoured at the time. 
Professor Che, with his research in "reactive metal-ligand multiple bonded complexes", is the first Hong Kong scientist to win the First Class prize of the State Natural Science Award since Hong Kong's participation in the awards began in 1989. His research provides the key in developing innovative ground-breaking chemical reactions in terms of efficiency, selectivity and environmental friendliness. It will benefit the modern chemical industry, synthesized pharmaceuticals and the discovery of new molecular functional materials. 
The State Natural Science Award is the highest award in natural sciences, with only First Class and Second Class prizes being awarded, and is highly respected by the science sectors both in China and overseas. The assessment process for the First Class Prize has a reputation for being rigorous and uncompromising, so much so that in 2004 and 2005, no projects were selected for this top award. 
The First Class prizes of the State Natural Science Award have been awarded to pre-eminent scientists and scholars who are well-known in China and internationally. Past awardees include the mathematician Hua Luo-geng, the "father of China's ballistic missile force"; Tsien Hsue-Shen, chemist; Tang Aoqing, nuclear physics scientist Wang Ganchang; and architectural-preservation expert and educator Liang Sicheng and his wife Lin Huiyin. 
Photo Captions 
Picture 1: 
From left: Professor D.L. Phillip, Head of Department of Chemistry; Professor Che Chi Ming, Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry; Dr The Honourable Donald Tsang Yam Kuen, The Chief Executive of HKSAR and the Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong; Dr S.W. Lai, Research Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry; and Dr J.S. Huang, Research Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry. 
Picture 2 
From left: Professor Che Chi Ming, Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry and Dr The Honourable Donald Tsang Yam Kuen, The Chief Executive of HKSAR and the Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong 
Picture 3 
Professor Che Chi Ming, Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, Professor DL Philips, Head of Department of Chemistry and two members of Professor Che's research team meeting Chief Executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen at the Government House

 


Picture 1
 
Picture 2

Picture 3
 
 
 
 
