[title]The University of Hong Kong collaborates with The University of Notre Dame on Student Exchange[/title]
[date]11 Mar 2012[/date]
 


HKU collaborates with The University of Notre Dame on Student Exchange

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and The University of Notre Dame (ND) today (March 12) signed an agreement to support a bilateral student exchange programme between the two universities. Starting from the 2012-13 academic year, eight scholarships will be awarded annually to eight students so that they can pursue study at The University of Hong Kong and The University of Notre Dame.
This new exchange programme between HKU and ND is a result of the determined efforts of Mr. Christopher Cheng Wai-Chee. As an active member of public service committees in Hong Kong and a University of Notre Dame alumnus himself, Mr. Cheng felt strongly about the benefits that could be fostered with a collaboration between HKU and ND. Mr. Cheng successfully brought the two schools together and secured the funds necessary to subsidise an exchange programme for eight students. 
The scholarship, known as the "HKU - Notre Dame Scholarship for Student Exchange", will provide around HK$4 million to support international education, service learning and academic exchange between the two universities.  Awardees will be selected based on their scholastic performance, willingness to serve the community and overall performance. Four students from ND will receive scholarships to go on exchange at HKU and four HKU students will receive the scholarships to study at ND. The recipients are required to join the service learning projects organised by the host university during their stay. The scholarship will allow students from both universities to experience international learning and to gain the advantage of studying overseas and learning about a new culture. 
About Mr. Christopher Cheng:
Mr. Christopher Cheng Wai-Chee is an alumnus of the University of Notre Dame and remains incredibly active in community service. Mr. Cheng was the chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and a council member of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council and the Public Service Commission, he currently is a member of The Board of Stewards of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, a member of the Exchange Fund Advisory Committee of Hong Kong Monetary Authority,and Council of the University of Hong Kong.
About The University of Notre Dame:
Located approximately 90 miles east of Chicago, Ill., in the state of Indiana, Notre Dame was founded in 1842 and is today the preeminent Catholic university in the United States, offering one of the country's most highly regarded undergraduate educations. The University is organized into four colleges-Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering, and Business; the School of Architecture; the Law School; and the Graduate School. Notre Dame is rated among the US's top 25 institutions of higher learning in surveys conducted by U.S.News &amp; World Report, Princeton Review, Time, Kiplinger's, Kaplan/Newsweek. The undergraduate business program at Notre Dame has been ranked # 1 in the United States by Business Week/Bloomberg in 2010 and 2011.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk
