[title]The Third Inauguration of Endowed Professorships at HKU[/title]
[date]14 Apr 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated its Third Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 14).
At the ceremony, the Mok Hing-Yiu Distinguished Visiting Professorships, a university-wide scheme in support of the appointment of international visiting professors, was announced. The ceremony also presented the successive appointments to two Endowed Professorships. [Click here for the list of the Endowed Professorships presented at the Third Inauguration.]
The Mok Hing-Yiu Distinguished Visiting Professorships was established by Dr Mok Hing-Yiu with a HK$20 million donation which will be matched by the University to form a permanent endowment of HK$40 million. The annual investment return will be used to support at least one Distinguished Visiting Professor of the highest caliber each year, who must be at the forefront of their particular field of expertise.
Endowed Professorships at HKU are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence. It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon our distinguished academics. With a close partnership between the academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which will be matched with an equal amount. The interests generated by the $20 million permanent endowment will be used to support the professor's respective area of academic excellence. An Advisory Committee ensures the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. The Committee members include Dr Raymond Ch'ien (Chairman), Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Dr Eden Woon.
A total of 33 Endowed Professorships have been established at HKU since 2005.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office at 2241 5677; or Ms Cherry Cheung, External Relations Office at 2859 2606 / 8208 1686.
Snapshots of the Inauguration Ceremony will be available at the above webpage after 8:00pm tonight.
