[title]HKU holds the Equal Opportunities Festival 2011[/title]
[date]04 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held the Opening Ceremony of the Equal Opportunities Festival 2011 today (November 4).
Mr. Lam Woon-kwong, Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission, and HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost Professor Roland T. Chin officiated at the event.
Students from different countries including Indonesia, Africa, China and the USA shared their experience on how they overcame their difficulties. The students from Indonesia and Africa provided information on their culture and needs. Allowing people to know more about their culture and needs will facilitate these minority students to overcome their difficulties.
Miss He Yujia, a postgraduate student from the Mainland who uses a crutch to walk, urged people with a disability not to be afraid of speaking up and seeking help. She also stressed that after one receives help and love, "remember to give back, as others also deserve an equal learning opportunity." Another student from the USA, Mr Roy Chan, has Dyslexia and he expressed that "people with a disability want to be treated like everybody else. It is important to treat them with courtesy and respect regardless of their race, gender, or disability."
At the ceremony, certificates were presented to participants of "the wheelchair challenge". Participants who have been asked to travel on a wheelchair from one place to another on HKU campus shared their experience. 
The Equal Opportunities Festival 2011 will be held from November 4 to November 25 under the theme of disability awareness, cultural diversity and racial harmony.
For details of the events, please visit: www.eounit.hku.hk/eng/eofestival2011.htm
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
Mr. Lam Woon-kwong, Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission, and HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost Professor Roland T. Chin officiated at the event.
 
Professor Roland Chin and wheelchair challenge participants
 
Mr Roy Chan, Miss He Yujia (second from right), and wheelchair challenge participants



