[title]HKU Scoops Gold Environmental Award[/title]
[date]16 Feb 2004[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong's first Environmental Report has scooped a Gold Award in the 2003 Hong Kong Eco-Business Awards.
The Eco-Business Awards, launched by the Environmental Campaign Committee (ECC) in 1999, aim to honour businesses in Hong Kong that have demonstrated a commitment to environmental management . They also aim to educate organizations regarding the benefits of environmental management.
The HKU Environmental Report - People, Places, and Progress - was the first of its kind produced by the University since the launch of its Environmental Goal and Policy in 2001. The University is the first tertiary institution to be presented with an ECC Eco-Business Award.
The report is designed to encourage consultation and discussion not only within the University but also in the wider community.It identified two major areas for immediate development – a clear management structure with very visible support from the senior members of the University, and the establishment of a University environmental database.
The University's short term environmental targets focus on electricity conservation, food containers, transport, green office practices, and biological safety.Progress on these issues will be detailed in the second Report, but important steps have already been taken. For example, electricity consumption was lowered by 3 million kilowatt hours between July and October 2003 and continues to fall, reducing significantly the University's contribution to waste emissions into the local atmosphere.
The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "We are very pleased that, at our first attempt, we have produced such a good report. This shows our commitment to environmental protection."
The second report, currently in production, focuses upon sustainability.The third will concentrate on community impacts.
A copy of the HKU Environmental Report - People, Places, and Progress can be viewed at http://www.hku.hk/hkuhome/about/er2002.pdf.
 
