[title]Dr. Bertrand Piccard - the First Round the World Balloonist Media Session and Special Lecture at HKU (Press Invitation)[/title]
[date]30 May 2005[/date]
 
Dr. Bertrand Piccard, a pioneer and the first hot air balloonist to circumnavigate the globe, will visit Hong Kong on June 6, 2005. 
Dr. Piccard, most famous for his history making, around the world balloon flight in 1999, was born into a family of explorers and scientists.As a psychiatrist, aeronaut, highly sought-after public speaker, president of the "Winds of Hope" humanitarian foundation and Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations, Dr. Piccard is devoted to combine his family's scientific legacy with his commitment to exploring the great adventure of life. 
Four years after achieving the first non-stop round the world balloon flight, Dr. Piccard has taken on another spectacular human and technological challenge -- to build a revolutionary solar powered plane to fly around the world.
MEDIA INTERVIEW SESSION
Members of the media are cordially invited to the following media interview session jointly organized by the Consulate General of Switzerland and the Faculty of Engineering, to learn more about Dr. Piccard's balloon flight, his revolutionary solar-powered airplane and his philosophy of life.
Time：11:30 am – 12:30 pm
Date：June 6, 2005
Venue：Faculty of Engineering Office, Room 5-29, Haking Wong Building, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong
Language：English
PUBLIC LECTURE
You are also welcome to join Dr. Piccard's public lecture entitled "Adventure, a State of Mind: a Metaphor for the Round-the-World Balloon Flight" to be held on June 6, 2005 at 2:30pm in Lecture Theatre A, Chow Yei Ching Building, The University of Hong Kong. 
In the lecture, Dr. Piccard will explain how balloon flying can symbolise a new philosophy of life.He will also share with the audience his new project - "Solar Impulse", the construction of a revolutionary solar powered airplane to circle the globe.
For details, please contact Mr. Oliver Ng (tel: 2857-8258) or Ms Eunice Chan (tel: 2857-8259) of the Faculty of Engineering.
 
