[title]HKU holds the 189th Congregation[/title]
[date]26 Nov 2013[/date]
 



The 189th Congregation of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) was held today (November 26) at the Asia World Expo to confer degrees on 7,882 graduands. This year, 429 Doctoral, 4,081 Master’s and 3,372 Bachelor’s degrees were conferred.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui presided over the Congregation, the first time since taking up the post in 2002.
Speaking at the Congregation, Professor Tsui congratulated the graduates and wished them the very best as they start a new page in life. He cited the saying of the ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus “There is nothing permanent except change” to encourage them to be bold in facing change and grasping the opportunities open to them.
Citing as an example the changes in his own professional life, he said: “I certainly did not know that I would be speaking in front of you when I obtained my PhD in 1979. In fact, recombinant DNA technology was in its infancy at the time, but I decided to experiment a new way of studying genetic diseases. Fortunately, it worked out for me, and I was able to make some contributions to the field of human genetics, and, to understanding and treating cystic fibrosis.”
Professor Tsui’s team was the first in the world to solve the mystery of a serious genetic illness. Their pioneering work also became the guide for subsequent research on other diseases and the single most convincing argument to support the Human Genome Project.
“I hope you can all follow your interests, follow your passion and do things you love to do. However, you have to accept changes and take certain risks along the way.
“I trust that you have enjoyed the wide range of unique learning opportunities here at HKU, inside and outside classrooms. Most important, I am sure that you have developed a habit of life-long learning,” he added.
Professor Tsui also shared his thoughts about leadership, which to him is the art of listening to the views of others and keeping an open mind.
He said: “I have to be able to build consensus quickly, yet I have to be patient. I fully understand the importance of communication. I always try to learn from others and to adapt and innovate. As a leader, I try to lead by example. I am certainly not afraid of difficult tasks because I believe in teamwork. Last, I am a firm believer of ethics, high moral standards and integrity.”
He likened the organisation of a university to people in a picture. The students are at the front of the scene while “heads of universities can be most effective if they regard their role as the background of the organization”
He said: “As heads of universities, we should always know where our foreground is. We must provide the best environment possible, for our students to learn, our staff to excel, and for everyone else in the foreground to contribute.”
He told students that society has high expectations of them as leaders of the community.
“As graduates of this university with a strong commitment to freedom, liberty and diversity, and having in your possession the gifts of knowledge and learning, you are expected to be honest to yourselves and others, to hold the highest moral standards, and to be responsible individuals – responsible to yourselves, to your families and friends, and, to society.
“Therefore, please remember - leadership starts with sense of responsibility and attitude determines success; do not take short cuts; and do not compromise where your personal integrity or the human dignity of others is concerned,” he added.
Professor Tsui also took the opportunity to thank those who supported the University and him personally over the past 11 years.
For the speech of Professor Lap-Chee Tsui: please visit: http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/2013vc_e.doc
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk ; or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2857 8555 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk  .




















