[title]“Picasso Ceramics” unveiling the sculptural qualities and three-dimensional aspect of Picasso’s work
Nina Miller Collection first displayed to the public 
[/title]
[date]02 Sep 2014[/date]
 

Picasso works on a bullfight plate at Madoua potter. Vallauris 23.3.53. Photo Edward Quinn, © edwardquinn.com

An exhibition of "Picasso Ceramics" from the Nina Miller Collection will be on view at The University Museum and Art Gallery (UMAG) of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) from September 3 to November 2, 2014.
An opening ceremony was held today (September 2) at HKU. Officiating guests include HKSAR Under Secretary for Home Affairs Ms Florence Hui Hiu-fai, Consul General of Spain in Hong Kong and Macao Mr. Juan Manuel Lopez-Nadal, HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson and UMAG Director Dr Florian Knothe.

From left to right:  Yvonne Choi (Chairman of The University of Hong Kong Museum Society), Mr. Juan Manuel López-Nadal (Consul General of Spain in Hong Kong and Macao), Ms. Florence Hui Hiu-fai, SBS, JP (Under Secretary for Home Affairs, Government of the HKSAR), Prof. Peter Mathieson (President and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong), Dr. Christina Mathieson (Patron of The University of Hong Kong Museum Society), Dr. Florian Knothe (Director, University Museum and Art Gallery, HKU)

Picasso was one of few modern artists who adopted ceramics as canvases and also created unique sculptures that show his great versatility and imagination. Dr Knothe, who is also the co-curator of this exhibition said: “the artist’s ceramic oeuvre is not only interconnected with his paintings and wooden and bronze sculptures but an integral part of his varied and ever-expansive repertoire of cubist and abstract depictions.” From World War II to the end of Picasso's life in 1973, the Spanish artist created thousands of carefully sculpted and, often, colourfully glazed, objects that give testimony to his artistic diversity, ingenuity and enormous creative powers. “Picasso kept a passionate love for his country and always found in his own roots the sources of his creativity, inspired by his passion for freedom and excellence,” added Mr. Juan Manuel Lopez-Nadal.
The exhibition includes more than 100 ceramic works, both Picasso's Madoura editions and unique individual pieces, as well as lithographs and posters designed by the artist, and images by renowned photographers depicting Picasso in his studio and home. Coming from one of the largest collections of the artist's ceramic ware in the world, this is the first time that the London-based Nina Miller Collection of Picasso Ceramics is shown publicly. For information about selected exhibits, please click here.
Details of the exhibition
Period: September 3, 2014 (Wednesday) to November 2, 2014 (Sunday)
Opening Hours: 
09:30 to 18:00 (Monday to Saturday);
13:00 to 18:00 (Sunday).
Closed on University and Public Holidays
For details, please visit http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/about_us.html
Venue:  1/F, T.T. Tsui Building, University Museum and Art Gallery, the University of Hong Kong
For location, please visit: http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/location.html
Tel/Email: (852) 2241 5500 (General Enquiry) / museum@hku.hk
Fees: Free Admission
Website: www.hkumag.hku.hk
Activities
Clay classes
These workshops will show how modern ceramics are created and participants will learn about different types of ceramic materials and styles through the imitation of the designs from the exhibited Picasso ceramics. Dates and time of the workshop will be announced soon on the UMAG website: http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/lectures_events1_01.html
Lecture
Topic: "Ceramic as an Art Form: from Domestic Goods to Modern Sculptures"
Speaker: Dr. Florian Knothe, Director of University Museum and Art Gallery
Language: English
Date: September 6, 2014 (Saturday)
Time: 15:00 - 16:30
Venue: 1/F, Fung Ping Shan Building, UMAG, HKU
Cost: Free Admission. No registration required and seating is on a first-come first-serve basis.
Enquiries: Please call 2241 5500 or email to museum@hku.hk for general enquiries.
For lecture abstract, click here.
Guided Tour for schools
The exhibition will involve dedicated education and outreach activities. Our museum welcomes all school groups as well as tertiary institutions to request guided tours led by trained docents during our touring hours (Monday-Saturday, 09:30 - 17:00). Guided tours are available in English, Cantonese and Mandarin. To request an appointment, please contact Miss Elena Cheung on 2241 5512 or elenac@hku.hk for booking and further information.
Public Guided Tours
For tour schedule and details, please click here.
About University Museum and Art Gallery of the University of Hong Kong (UMAG)
UMAG was founded in 1953 as the Fung Ping Shan Museum. It was originally established as the Fung Ping Shan Library in 1932 in honour of its benefactor. For more information on UMAG, please click here.

Media enquiries:
UMAG Communication Officer Miss Elena Cheung, Tel: (852) 2241 5512, Email: elenac@hku.hk


Pigeon
Hand painted and glazed ceramic plate. Signed Picasso, dated 1957 and stamped Madoura Plein Feu (on the underside).
W: 37.4 cm, L: 31.4 cm.
Nina Miller Collection.

Duck flower-holder
Turned pitcher with white earthenware clay, decoration in oxides, knife engraved on white enamel, black, blue, green brown, 1951.
H: 42.5 cm, W: 21.5cm, L: 45 cm.
Nina Miller Collection.


