[title]HKU 166th Congregation For The Conferment Of Honorary Degrees[/title]
[date]20 Mar 2003[/date]
 
Dr. the Honourable David Li, Pro-Chancellor of HKU, conferred honorary degrees upon five distinguished individuals at the166th Congregation of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (March 20, 2003).The honorary degrees recipients were:
Doctor of Laws honoris causa
Professor Xu Kuangdi
Doctor of Letters honoris causa
Lord Foster of Thames Bank
Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa
Mr John R. Choa
Reverend Father Alfred J. Deignan, SJ
Dr. Rosanna Wong Yick-ming
Lord Foster of Thames Bank received the honorary degree in absentia.
Professor Xu Kuangdi, received the degree of Doctor of Laws honoris causa in recognition of his invaluable contributions to the engineering discipline through his internationally-renowned academic achievements.He is a metallurgist who specializes in the production of special steel, electro-metallurgy and jet-metallurgy.He is also Professor and supervisor of doctoral postgraduates at Shanghai University.He is author of Making High Quality Stainless Steel.
In 1995 he was elected member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.His honours include a Personal Award in Scientific Achievement for the 6th Five Year Plan, in 1986, which was jointly awarded by the State Science and Technology Commission and the Ministry of Metallurgical Industry, China.In June 2002, he was elected president of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. 
He has also been nominated for an honorary degree of this University in recognition of his role in the development of Shanghai as its former Mayor (1995-2001).The University noted, in particular, that he encouraged links in all areas, and at all levels, between Shanghai and Hong Kong.
Professor Xu has been alternate member of the 14th CPC Central Committee; member of the 15th CPC Central Committee; Deputy to the 9th NPC. He is a member of the 16th CPC Central Committee. He is recently elected to be a Vice-Chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
Lord Foster of Thames Bank received the degree of Doctor of Letters honoris causa for his invaluable contributions to the art and science of architecture.Lord Foster has won global acclaim for his numerous projects throughout the world.He has helped transform the skyline of Hong Kong and has brought a social dimension to his work, transforming communities, through his passionate care for the natural environment.
Lord Foster received his architectural training at Manchester University School of Architecture and Yale University.Foster Associates, later to become Foster and Partners, was founded in London in 1967.The firm shows an uncompromising exploration of technological innovations and forms.It also shows a dedication to craftsmanship and to architectural detailing.Lord Foster was knighted in 1990 and was made a peer in 1999.He received the Gold Medals of the RIBA in 1983 and the AIA in 1994.In 1999 he was awarded the Pritzer Architecture Prize.
His works which benefit a lot of international cities include Hong Kong International Airport at Chek Lap Kok, the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank headquarters in Hong Kong, Germany’s new Parliament at the Reichstag, Stansted Airport, London, and the British Museum’s Great Court.
Mr John R. Choa received the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa for his long term contributions to the University of Hong Kong, his Alma Mater, through his work as an alumnus and as an architect.
Mr Choa has participated enthusiastically in HKU's alumni affairs and has served on many University committees.He was a member of the University Court for 12 years from 1979 to 1991 and has been, since 1991, a University Council member.He has served also on the Management Board of the University's School of Professional and Continuing Education (SPACE) since 1992 and on the Board of Directors of HKU-SPACE since 1999.He has been a member of the Management Committee of Robert Black College since 1999.He also served as President of the HKU Alumni Association from 1985 to 1987. 
Mr Choa graduated from the University of Hong Kong with a Bachelor of Architecture degree.In 1973 he joined Lee, Choa and Partners and was authorised architect for St Andrew's Christian Centre in Tsimshatsui.As a co-founding partner of Choa, Ko &amp; Partners Architects &amp; Consulting Engineers (1977-1997), Mr Choa was involved in the architectural design of the University's Flora Ho Sports Centre and Junior Staff Quarters.He is currently Principal at Archland Company, land development consultants.In 2001 he was made a Fellow of the Hong Kong Institute of Architects. 
Reverend Father Alfred J. Deignan, SJ received the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa for his enormous contributions to education in Hong Kong and Asia.The Reverend Father Deignan has played a leading role in both secondary and tertiary education and served for many years as the warden of Ricci Hall (1970-1978) at the University of Hong Kong.He concurrently served as a member of the University Court and as a member of many committees, such as the Hall Committee and as Chaplain of the University.A former teacher, and former Principal of Wah Yan College, in Kowloon, Reverend Father Deignan's life-long dedication to education has won him the respect of the community he serves. 
With his rich experiences in both secondary and university education he was able to play a significant role during a series of education reforms in Hong Kong.He made available his services to both diocesan and lay inter-school councils.When he retired as Principal of Wah Yan College in 1992 he continued to give workshops on education to secondary schools in Hong Kong and the wider Asia region. 
He has been Regional Superior of the Jesuits in Macau and Hong Kong since 1996, and also serves as Chairman of the Hong Kong International Institute of Educational Leadership.
Dr. Rosanna Wong Yick-ming received the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa for her enormous contributions to the community of Hong Kong, especially in terms of education and social service.
As an alumna of the University of Hong Kong, she graduated with a Bachelor of Social Sciences in 1975. She obtained her Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of California, Davis in 1997. As Executive Director of the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups since 1980, she has been particularly committed and dedicated to the welfare of young people. Dr. Wong previously served as a member of both the Executive and Legislative Councils. She continues to serve the community in various capacities. Currently she is the Chairman of the Education Commission, the Chairperson of World Vision Hong Kong and a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference.
She has received honorary doctoral degrees from the University of Toronto, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Her other honors include being made a Dame Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 1997, a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1994 and an Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1990. She is also a Justice of the Peace.
The University of Hong Kong counts Hu Shih, Mother Teresa, Joseph Needham and Nelson Mandela amongst its honorary degree recipients.
March 20, 2003
For photos of the honorary recipients, please download at the following websites:
Professor Xu Kuangdi – www.hku.hk/eroonweb/XuKuangdi.htm
Lord Foster of Thames Bank – www.hku.hk/eroonweb/LordFoster.htm
Mr John R. Choa – www.hku.hk/eroonweb/JohnChoa.htm
Reverend Father Alfred J. Deignan, SJ – www.hku.hk/eroonweb/AlfredDeignan.htm
Dr. Rosanna Wong Yick-ming – www.hku.hk/eroonweb/RosannaWong.htm
 
