[title]Exhibition “Silent Poetry: Chinese Contemporary Ink”
UMAG showcases an imaginary sound of ink paintings
[/title]
[date]10 Feb 2015[/date]
 

Opening Ceremony’s Officiating Guests (From Left to Right): Participating artist Sun Hao, UMAG associate curator Dr. Sarah Ng, Participating artist Li Wei, Associate Dean of the School of Chinese Painting of Central Academy of Fine Art (CAFA) Professor Liu Qing-he, Participating artist Zhu Zhengming, Director of HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education, Director of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of the University of Hong Kong Professor Lee Chack-fan, UMAG Director Dr. Florian Knothe, The Central Academy of Fine Arts Professor Zhao Li, Independent curator Dr. Vivian Ting and Lecturer, General Education Centre of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Dr. Silvia Fok

“Silent Poetry: Chinese Contemporary Ink” will showcase the latest Chinese contemporary ink paintings by nine artists from February 11 (tomorrow) to March 17, 2015 at the University Museum and Art Gallery (UMAG), the University of Hong Kong (HKU).
An opening ceremony of the exhibition was held at UMAG today (February 10). Officiating guests included the Director of HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education, Director of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of the University of Hong Kong Professor Lee Chack-fan; The Central Academy of Fine Arts Professor Zhao Li; independent curator Dr. Vivian Ting; Lecturer, General Education Centre of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Dr. Silvia Fok; Associate Dean and Professor of the School of Chinese Painting of Central Academy of Fine Art (CAFA) Professor Liu Qing-he, participating artists and UMAG Director Dr. Florian Knothe.
“Silent Poetry” showcases Chinese ink paintings as if they are beautiful poems which contain no words and sound. Unlike so many of the mass-produced popular artworks today, these Chinese contemporary ink paintings differ from their traditional counterparts in terms of their form, style and techniques. Contemporary ink paintings challenge some concepts of traditional Chinese paintings and individual artists apply unconventional mediums, materials and tools to change the traditional painting practice and to break constraints while preserving their profound values at the same time.
Ink has long been a widely used medium in Chinese art, while ink painting is one of China’s oldest and best known art forms. From the May Fourth Movement to the 1990s, ink art has been reformed and transformed greatly. It attained substantial developments and has gradually attested to its maturity. Nowadays, Chinese contemporary ink paintings are appreciated internationally, in China as well as the global art world.
To tie in with the exhibition, a wide range of activities including workshops entitled “Drawing in the Gallery (Family Class)” and “Artistic Creation: From Photo to Painting” will be held on February 28, 2015 and March 7, 2015 respectively; while an academic lecture entitled “Chinese Contemporary Ink Paintings on transformation, curation and collecting” will be held on March 14, 2015 to enhance publics’ knowledge of and interest in contemporary ink paintings.
This special exhibition and the related activities are co-organised by the UMAG and Chinese Modern &amp; Contemporary Art Document (CCAD) with the support of HKU, CAFA ART INFO, the Chinese Contemporary Art Promotion Centre (CCAP), Art Nova 100 and the Beijing Strategic Cultural Development Co. Ltd. Participating artists include Chen Jun, Du Xiao-tong, Hao Shi-ming, Li Wei, Pan Wen-xun, Sun Hao, Xu Hua-ling, Xu Jia-cun and Zhu Zheng-ming.
Details of the Exhibition
Period: February 11, 2015 (Wed) – March 17, 2015 (Tue)
Opening Hours:
09:30 – 18:00 (Mon to Sat)
13:00 – 18:00 (Sun)
Closed on University and Public Holidays
Venue: 1/F Fung Ping Shan Building, University Museum and Art Gallery, the University of Hong Kong, 90 Bonham Road, Pokfulam
Tel/Email: (852) 2241 5500 (General Enquiry) / museum@hku.hk
Fees: Free Admission
Website: www.hkumag.hku.hk
Media enquiries:
UMAG Communication Officer Miss Elena Cheung, Tel: (852) 2241 5512, Email: elenac@hku.hk    
Activities
Workshops/Lecture
Please click here for event details.
Guided Tours for schools
The exhibition will involve dedicated education and outreach activities. Our museum welcomes all school groups as well as tertiary institutions to request guided tours let by trained docents during our touring hours (Monday-Saturday, 09:30 – 17:00). Guided tours are available in English, Cantonese and Mandarin. To request an appointment, please contact Miss Elena Cheung on 2241-5512 or elenac@hku.hk for booking and further information.
About University Museum and Art Gallery of the University of Hong Kong (UMAG)
UMAG was founded in 1953 as the Fung Ping Shan Museum. It was originally established as the Fung Ping Shan Library in 1932 in honour of its benefactor. For more information on UMAG, please click here.


Zhu Zhengming
Asura
2015
Colours on Silk
110cm x 140cm

Sun Hao
Avidya
2014
Ink on Paper
97cm x 180cm



Xu Hualing
Aroma 2014 No.8
2014
Colours on Silk
100cm x 121cm

Round-table Discussion


