[title]The University of Hong Kong and Institut Pasteur sign new research agreement[/title]
[date]17 Dec 2013[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and Institut Pasteur renew their partnership today (December 17, 2013) by establishing the HKU-Pasteur Research Pole under the School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.
Hong Kong and Institut Pasteur have long historical ties dating back to the end of the 19th century when Alexandre Yersin, a disciple of Louis Pasteur, discovered the bacteria responsible for the Black Death Plague (known after his name as “Yersinia pestis”) during the 1894 outbreak in Hong Kong.  HKU and Institut Pasteur started their long-time partnership with the creation of HKU-Pasteur Research Center (HKU-PRC) in 1999.  With the renewal of the agreement, the HKU-Pasteur Research Pole (HKU-PRP), will be a fully integrated laboratory in the Center of Influenza Research and the School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, and will continue in the footsteps of HKU-PRC to conduct research on influenza and viruses that are both global and regional threats.
HKU-PRP is a medical research laboratory that brings together two world-class academic and research institutions, HKU and Institut Pasteur, for the common goal of generating biological knowledge to advance the understanding and treatment of infectious diseases.  HKU-PRP will provide opportunities and support for outstanding young scientists to undertake interdisciplinary research by harnessing the resources of the local and international environments in HKU and Institut Pasteur.  HKU-PRP is a member of the Institut Pasteur International Network which is comprised of 32 institutes sharing the same vision and engaging in collaborative work for scientific research on the curbing of infectious diseases, training of specialists and improvement of public health services.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of HKU, Mr Arnaud Barthélémy, Consul General of France in Hong Kong and Macau, and Mr Leo Kung Lin-cheng, Chairman of HKU-PRC and Honorary Consul of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, host a signing ceremony at 3 pm today at Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.  About 50 distinguished guests including Professor Gabriel M Leung, Dean of Medicine, HKU, Professor Paul Tam Kwong-hang, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Research) of HKU and Professor Malik Peiris, Tam Wah-ching Professor in Medical Science, Chair Professor and Acting Director of School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, attend the occasion.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui notes that for the past 120 years, the Medical Faculty and Institut Pasteur have joined hands to fight against infectious diseases through the advancement of basic and clinical research and the nurturing of next generations for the promotion of public health.
Professor Christian Brechot, Director General of Institut Pasteur, commends the institutions for the achievements accomplished through the strategic partnership and hopes that in pursuit of scientific excellence, the core value of improving patient care can be upheld in spite of socio-economic considerations.
Mr Arnaud Barthélémy stresses that the creation of the HKU-PRP is emblematic of a fruitful scientific bilateral cooperation between Hong Kong and France.  The collaboration between HKU, one of the best universities in Asia, and Institut Pasteur, a world leader in infectious diseases research, will help tackle health threats that concern all people.
About the School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
The School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU has a long history in public health education and a distinguished track record of generating high impact research.  With the seamless integration of epidemiology and “wet-lab” research in infectious diseases, as well as research on non-communicable diseases of both domestic and global importance, the School has made significant international and locally relevant contributions through its research and advocacy to improve the health of populations and individuals.  The School is a leading research hub in public health on influenza research, control of infectious and non-communicable diseases, tobacco control, air pollution, psycho-oncology, behavioural sciences, life-course epidemiology, health economics research, health services planning and management.  The works of these have informed international (e.g. the World Health Organisation, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations), national and local public health policies.
About Institut Pasteur
Institut Pasteur is a non-profit private foundation with a mission to contribute to the prevention and treatment of diseases through research, education, and public health activities.  Since its creation by Louis Pasteur in 1887, Institut Pasteur has become famous throughout the world as a symbol of excellence in biomedical sciences.  Together with its major contribution to a deeper understanding of fundamental aspects of life, Institut Pasteur continues to devote a large part of its efforts to infectious diseases, inherited disorders, neurodegenerative diseases and certain types of cancers.  Approximately 2,600 people work on its main campus in Paris which is at the heart of an international network of 32 research institutes on 5 continents.  Over the years, 10 Institut Pasteur researchers have received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

(From Left to Right)
Professor Roberto Bruzzone, CEO of HKU-Pasteur Research Pole, Professor Christian Brechot, Director General of Institut Pasteur, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of The University of Hong Kong and Mr Leo Kung Lin-cheng, Chairman of HKU-Pasteur Research Centre sign a new research agreement today to establish the HKU-Pasteur Research Pole under the School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong.

(From Left to Right) 
Professor Malik Peiris, Tam Wah-ching Professor in Medical Science, Chair Professor and Acting Director of School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong
Professor Roberto Bruzzone, CEO of HKU-Pasteur Research Pole
Professor Christian Brechot, Director General of Institut Pasteur
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of The University of Hong Kong
Mr Arnaud Barthélémy, Consul General of France in Hong Kong and Macau
Dr Leong Che-hung, Chairman of Council, The University of Hong Kong
Mr Leo Kung Lin-cheng, Chairman of HKU-Pasteur Research Centre
Professor Gabriel M Leung, Dean of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong




Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of The University of Hong Kong notes that the HKU-Pasteur Research Pole provides opportunities for scientists to fight against infectious diseases together. 




