[title]HKU responds to media enquiries on donation, and staff and student-related matters[/title]
[date]13 Nov 2014[/date]
 
In response to media enquiries, an “HKU spokesperson” stated:
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) acts in accordance with international standards in the consideration of donations, and due diligence is carried out on the source of donations. Our procedures for handling donations have always closely adhered to the principles of the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC).  As a matter of fact, HKU together with other tertiary institutions worked with ICAC in 2011 to produce the “Partner for Excellence – Administration of Donations“ guidelines.  University funds must be used for legitimate academic purposes or to support our contributions to society and we have standard procedures for checking and signing off the use of all funding.  We continuously examine compliance with these procedures including, but not limited to, those that have received recent publicity and we are satisfied that correct procedures have been followed in the acquisition and disposition of all major donations in recent years.   We are always determined to learn lessons where necessary: recent events have led us to review our processes and we are actively considering whether improvements can be, or need to be, made.
We cherish academic freedom and institutional autonomy and will continue to protect both.  Our staff and students are all entitled to their personal opinions.  We expect staff to deliver their contractual obligations: we will not comment on individual cases and all dealings with our staff are confidential, but we are satisfied that our procedures for ensuring that staff members fulfill their obligations are being rigorously followed.  Activities undertaken by staff in their private time, or whilst on leave, or their views outside teaching activities are entirely up to them.  We have repeatedly stated that we expect our staff and students to anticipate, understand and accept the consequences of their actions.  Freedoms, including academic freedom, come with responsibilities.
