[title]HKU Professor in Chemistry Yang Dan awarded Chinese Young Women in Science Fellowship[/title]
[date]11 Jan 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) Morningside Professor in Chemical Biology and Chair Professor in Chemistry Yang Dan was awarded the 7th Chinese Young Women in Science Fellowship in a ceremony held in Beijing today (January 11).  Professor Yang is the first woman scientist in the Hong Kong and Macau region receiving the honour.
The fellowship was jointly founded by the All-China Women's Federation, China Association for Science and Technology, the UNESCO China National Committee, and L'Oreal China, which is an extension of the L'Oreal-UNESCO for Women in Science Partnership.
Ten top young woman scientists in the Mainland were selected for the 2010 award, which is also the first time scientists from the Hong Kong and Macau region were invited to contest. Each higher educational institution in the region could nominate one candidate to contest among the 165 nominees by 77 academic units from all over the country.
Professor Yang was honoured in recognition of her contributions in the field of Chemical Biology. She was happy with the award and would like to share the joy with her research team members. She said perseverance and dedication were keys to make a good scientist, and urged students to follow their interest.
 "I hope the students who have interest in research should pursue their interest, really put up efforts, carry out in-depth studies, and to solve some real scientific problems," said Professor Yang.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was delighted that Professor Yang was honoured the award, which is a recognition of her outstanding contributions to the discipline of Chemistry.
 "As a research-intensive institution, HKU aims both to investigate fundamental problems and to contribute to the application of knowledge. Professor Yang's dedication in research and her accomplishments have helped to illustrate the University's strength and commitment to continue to excel to the benefit of the communities in Hong Kong, China, the region and beyond."
Over the years, Professor Yang and her team has developed efficient and enantioselective syntheses of triptolide, a natural product isolated from Chinese medicinal herb Lei Gong Teng, and identified structural features important for biological activities. They are probing the interactions of triptolide with its cellular receptors, which will lead to better understanding of cell growth regulation and immune responses as well as discovery of new anticancer, anti-inflammatory, and immunosuppressive drugs.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
HKU Morningside Professor in Chemical Biology Yang Dan
 
Professor Yang and her research team
 
HKU Morningside Professor in Chemical Biology Yang Dan awarded Chinese Young Women in Science Fellowship
 
Professor Yang Dan and other awardees
 
Professor Yang Dan



