[title]The Medical Faculty welcomes the Appointment of New Dean of Medicine[/title]
[date]20 Feb 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine welcomes the announcement by the University's Council today (February 20, 2008) on the appointment of Professor Lee Sum Ping as the Faculty's new Dean for a fixed term of 5 years.
Professor Lee is currently Cyrus E Rubin Endowed Chair and Head, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington School of Medicine Teaching Hospitals, Professor of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, and Chief, Gastroenterology Section, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centre, Seattle, Washington, USA.
Professor Lee received his MBBS and MD degrees from HKU in 1970 and 1980 respectively, and his PhD in 1978 from the University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. He is a Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, the American College of Physicians, and the American College of Gastroenterology, and a Member of the American Association of Physicians and the American Society of Clinical Investigation. 
A spokesperson for the Faculty said that under the leadership of the new Dean, the Faculty will continue its robust developments in medical education, research and clinical service, and further strengthen its position as the leading medical school in the region.
"With Professor Lee's outstanding academic achievements, administrative experience and heritage as an internationally renowned medical scientist nurtured by HKU, we fully support the appointment and believe that Professor Lee is the most suitable person to lead the Faculty to ensuing levels of excellence in future," said Professor Chow Shew-ping, Faculty Board Chairman.
"I am sure that with Professor Lee's academic excellence, visionary leadership and extensive administrative experience, the Faculty will scale new heights in academic research and teaching. I shall give my full support to his leadership," said Professor Raymond Liang, Acting Dean of the Faculty.
Professor Lee, in response to the appointment, said that "I am much honoured to be appointed the new Dean of one of the best medical schools in the world. I eagerly look forward to working together with the University, Faculty members and students to bring the Faculty to new heights with the support from alumni and the community."
As Professor Lee plans to join HKU in August 2008, the Council today appointed Professor Raymond Liang as the Dean of the Faculty until the arrival of Professor Lee. Professor Liang has been the Acting Dean of the Medical Faculty since March 2007.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Winnie Lam (Tel: 2809 5102 / 9107 1676) or Mr Terence Poon (Tel: 2819 9305 / 9316 6267) of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.
HKU Press Release and Photo of Professor Lee Sum Ping :  http://www.hku.hk/press
