[title]Hong Kong Robotic Olympic Association and HKU Faculty of Engineering hold International Robotic Olympiad 2014[/title]
[date]10 Aug 2014[/date]
 

Servo motor Robot Performance (Dance)  Competition
“International Robotic Olympiad 2014” was held on August 6, 2014 (Wednesday) at Loke Yew Hall of the University of Hong Kong (HKU).
The robotic competition, co-organized by the Hong Kong Robotic Olympic Association and the Faculty of Engineering, HKU, includes both the Ocean Exploration Competition and the Land-based Robot Competition.  It aims to nurture students for innovative mindset and skillset in the area of Robotics Technology, as well as applying technology to solve real-life problems.  It also provides a platform to encourage multi-way exchange of ideas between local and overseas schools.
This year, the competition has attracted a total of over 500 participants from primary and secondary schools who are the winning teams in their homelands, including Malaysia, Thailand, Shanghai, Liaoning, Macau, Hong Kong and so on.  They competed for 65 awards in the primary and secondary school sections respectively.
 
HKU Dean of Engineering Professor Norman C. Tien praises the students for their creativity and talents in producing different kinds of creative robots.
At the award presentation ceremony, HKU Dean of Engineering Professor Norman C. Tien praised the students for their creativity and talents in producing different kinds of creative robots.
“The robots and movements have been meticulously designed and tested, as well as the well-integrated hardware with software are all demonstrative of the strengths and talents of the students to become outstanding engineers and scientists of the next generation."
Founding Chairman of the Hong Kong Robotic Olympic Association Mr. Kan Chi Kwong agreed and added: “Our students must have spent a lot of effort on information gathering and research in the design of robot that demonstrates a methodology based on good science.”
The award list and details (http://robotorghk.blogspot.hk/).
For enquiries please contact HKU Faculty of Engineering, Ms Jolly Li (Tel: 2241 5953 / E-mail: jollyli@hku.hk) or Communications and Public Affairs Office Ms Melanie Wan (Tel: 2859 2600 / Email: melwkwan@hku.hk).

Lightweight Humanoid Free Fighting Competition

Wired Control Robot Fish Obstacle Avoidance Competition



Hand Generator Robot Freestyle (front crawl) Swimming Competition

Robot Design Competition



Water Polo Robot Game





