[title]Books and Their Stories: Gems from the University of Hong Kong Libraries Collection 9 June to 30 July 2006[/title]
[date]07 Jun 2006[/date]
 
This exhibition celebrates the launch of the University of Hong Kong Libraries one millionth e-book. It will recount how the library has built up its wonderful rare book collections and describe the way in which the one millionth e-book has been created.
Founded in 1912, the University of Hong Kong Libraries is the oldest and largest academic library in Hong Kong. Over the past few years the Libraries have put special emphasis on collection development. Its printed collection has grown to over 2.4 million volumes, some of which are rare and unique. Equally remarkable is the growth of its e-book collection. It was taken only seven years for the Libraries to accumulate one million e-books, after it first began acquiring web-based e-books in the year 2000, making it the world's first library to do so.
Jointly presented by the Libraries and the University Museum and Art Gallery, The University of Hong Kong, this exhibition celebrates the launching of the Libraries' one millionth e-book. It will feature a number of valuable books from the Chinese rare book collection of the Libraries, some of which belonged originally to historical and literary figures, including Robert Morrison, the first Protestant missionary to China; Lu Muzhen, Sun Yat-sen's first wife; and Hsu Ti-shan, a well-known essayist and novelist etc. 
Among the highlights of the exhibition are a 1798 edition of George Staunton's An Authentic Account of an Embassy from the King of Great Britain of China, published in 1798 and a rare copy of the Si ku quan shu (a collection of reference works up to the eighteenth century), which is believed to have been dispersed from the Wenyuange (Wen Yuan Pavilion) at the Yuanmingyuan (the Old Summer Palace). The beautifully produced 5-volume set of the former, the only copy that exists in the world, is a genuine and copious account of Lord George Macartney's mission to China and the court of the Qing emperor Qianlong from the King George III between 1792 and 1794. The Libraries has chosen this to be digitized it as its one millionth e-book.
The opening cum the launching ceremony of the HKUL one millionth e-book will take place on Thursday 8 June 2006 at 6.00 p.m. Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor, The University of Hong Kong and Dr Anthony Ferguson, University Librarian, The University of Hong Kong will be the officiating guests. Members of the press are warmly invited to attend.
The opening hours of the University Museum and Art Gallery are 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday to Saturday, and 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays. The Museum is closed on public holidays. Admission is free. All are welcome.
Please visit the Museum's website http://www.hku.hk/hkumag or call 2241 5512 for further information.
