[title]HKU Faculty of Dentistry receives HK$1 Million for scholarship in Prosthodontics [/title]
[date]23 Nov 2015[/date]
 


The Pun U District Association of Hong Kong has donated HK$1 million for the establishment of a scholarship at the Faculty of Dentistry, the University of Hong Kong today (November 23). The donation will be given over five years to cover part of the cost of tuition for successful applicants enrolled in the Master of Dental Surgery (Prosthodontics) programme, whose eligibility is based on academic merit.
Present at the cheque handing over ceremony were the Faculty Dean Professor Thomas Flemmig and the Chairman of the Pun U District Association of Hong Kong, Mr Sat Kai-chuen.
In his speech at the ceremony, Dr Peter Wat, the Association’s President and also the initiator of the scholarship, said the ultimate goal of the donation was to help students with good potential to further their studies.
Dr Wat said: “We hope the scholarship can help to ease some of the financial constraints for graduate students and enable them to pursue higher level of studies in Prosthodontics.”  He noted the significance of continuing education and research in perfecting knowledge and practice in the field.
Dr Wat added: “Implants are a new concept of replacing missing teeth. Much research and studies are needed to make this exercise a safe and successful treatment modality. By promoting more candidates to a higher level of studies in this area will help to improve the standard of treatment protocol.” Dr Wat was Honorary Clinical Associate Professor with the Faculty of Dentistry at the University of Hong Kong till his retirement in 2015. After that, he continued to devote his efforts to philanthropic activities of the Association.
In his welcome remark, Professor Thomas Flemmig said the Faculty was grateful for the donation that renders support to students who want to pursue further education and research in the area of Prosthodontics.
Professor Flemmig said: “I hope the scholarship will inspire other philanthropists to donate and support learning and research in dentistry.”
The HKU Faculty of Dentistry has been ranked World’s No.2 by the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015.
For media enquiries, please contact:
HKU Faculty of Dentistry, Tel: 2859 0494; E-mail: dentke@hku.hk.
