[title]HKU launches the University Artists Scheme[/title]
[date]22 Nov 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) launched the University Artists Scheme (the Scheme) in an inauguration ceremony today. The Scheme focuses on artists of an international caliber. Five renowned artists from the Drama, Film and Music disciplines were appointed as University Artists for 2008 - 2010. They are Mr Peter Ho-sun Chan (Filmmaker), Ms Ann On-wah Hui (Filmmaker), Ms Jue Yao (Violinist), Dr Heung-wing Lung (Percussionist) and Dr Vicki Ooi (Drama Educator /Theatre Director). The scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts and supported by the Wah Ching Fund. The inauguration ceremony was officiated by HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui in the presence of Dean of Arts Professor Kam Louie, Head of School of Humanities Prof. Daniel Chua and various guests.
HKU Vice Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said in the ceremony, "university students shall be equipped with a wide range of skills, including the ability to think independently and creatively, to communicate confidently, and to have a sense of responsibility to the community. The reflective and historical nature of the disciplines of the Arts Faculty is very important in helping to develop our students' critical, independent and innovative thinking." He thanked Wah Ching Fund for it support as he said, "Dr. Tam has been a friend of HKU for many years, who gave generous support to HKU for the research and development in education, arts and medicine. Through his Wah Ching Fund, the University Artist Scheme was established to take the development of humanities to a new height."
The University Artists Scheme is the first of its kind in HKU. We look forward to bringing world-renowned artists to the campus to enrich the lives of our students. During their tenure at the University, the artists will pursue projects and activities through workshops, screenings, exhibitions and performance events. Some of the programmes are also offered as credit bearing activities for an extra-curricular learning experience. Artists will have an opportunity to interact and work closely with colleagues, practitioners and students in the University and the community at large.
The Scheme started with several activities this month, including a talk given by Peter Chan on his award-winning movie The Warlords and a concert given by Jue Yao in Loke Yew Hall of HKU. Events of the other 3 University Artists will follow shortly from next year onwards.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office, HKU (Tel: 2241 5677).


 
(From left) Prof. Daniel Chua (Head of School of Humanities, HKU), Ms Ann On-wah Hui (Filmmaker), Dr Heung-wing Lung (Percussionist), Dr Tam Wah Ching, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui (HKU Vice-Chancellor ), Dr Vicki Ooi (Drama Educator /Theatre Director), Ms Jue Yao (Violinist) and Professor Kam Louie (Dean of Arts, HKU).
 
International Renowned Film Director Ms Ann Hui
 
Outstanding Percussionist Dr Heung-wing Lung
 
Drama Educator &amp; Theatre Director Dr Vicki Ooi
 
International Acclaimed Virtuoso Ms Jue Yao
 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui (left) and Dean of Arts Professor Kam Louie(right) present souvenir to Dr Tam Wah Ching, who supports the University Artists Scheme through the Wah Ching Fund.



