[title]HKU's "Little Prince is depressed" Won In The 2006 Meritorious Website Contest[/title]
[date]20 Jan 2007[/date]
 
The website "Little Prince is depressed" (http://www.depression.edu.hk), run by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention (CSRP) at The University of Hong Kong, has been selected as one of the twelve winning websites in the "2006 Meritorious Website Contest". It is the second time the website being awarded the same honour. 
The prize presentation ceremony of the contest was held today (January 20) in the Southorn Indoor Stadium. 
"Little Prince is depressed", which is an educational website, is a collective effort of the CSRP working toward improvement of the mental health of the population among the young people and to provide an in-depth and easily digestible information on depression. It was awarded one of the winning websites in the "Ten Healthy Websites 2004 Awards" – the original title of the "Meritorious Website Contest" which has been renamed in 2005. The contributions of the "Little Prince is depressed" were recognized by the international community. In 2005, the "Little Prince is depressed" website has won the Silver Prize in the 8th Asian Innovation Awards. 
The Asian Innovation Awards, organized by the Asian Wall Street Journal and the Singapore Economic Development Board in conjunction with Global Entrepolis @ Singapore 2005, is Asia's premier honor for individuals and companies who create new ideas, methods or technologies, or apply existing knowledge in unique, creative ways to improve the quality of life or productivity. 
"Depression lay at the heart of most suicide attempts and this is a global problem. The website 'Little Prince is depressed' tries to remove the stigma of depression and provide help to needy adolescents. We are mixing art, multi-media features, technology, useful facts and research findings, the site makes use of the tools of world wide web to reach an audience that otherwise might not be reachable.We are very pleased to receive the award which is a recognition of our multidisciplinary effort in reaching out to the community. It has been visited by more than 200,000 unique visitors," said Paul Yip, Director of CSRP. 
The "2006 Meritorious Website Contest" is jointly organized by the Television and Entertainment Licensing Authority and the Hong Kong Playground Association. The other co-organizers include the HKSAR Education and Manpower Bureau, the Committee on Home-School Co-operation, the Radio Television Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Internet Service Providers Association. The objectives of the contest are to encourage young people to pay more visits to healthy websites and to recognize the contributions of the producers of healthy website. 
Details of the 2006 Meritorious Website Contest is available at: http://www.merit.gov.hk/. 

