[title]HKU Faculty of Arts appoints six highly respected individuals as 
University Artists for 2014-2016
[/title]
[date]26 Oct 2014[/date]
 


Six highly respected artists from the disciplines of Film, Music, Literature and the Visual Arts have been appointed as University Artists for 2014 - 2016. The six artists are independent filmmaker Fruit Chan;  Hong Kong film industry pioneer John Sham; award-winning cellist and UNICEF Hong Kong Ambassador Trey Lee; acclaimed poet Henri Cole; and the directors of the groundbreaking art and technology partnership Artstation, Glenn Davidson and Anne Hayes. The University Artists Scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts and is generously supported by Dr Alice Lam.
Thanking the six artists for committing to the Scheme, HKU Dean of Arts, Professor Douglas Kerr, stated: "For our students, in particular, having the opportunity to question true masters of their craft and engage in a creative dialogue with them is an invaluable experience which they will never forget. This is very much in keeping with the aims of the new 4-year curriculum, which provides students with diverse learning experiences and encourages critical thinking and all-round development." He also thanked Arts alumna Dr Alice Lam for her generosity and support of the Scheme.
Upcoming events held as part of the Scheme include a screening and dialogue with John Sham on November 5, 2014 (Wedesnday), and three performances by Trey Lee and renowned international musicians on November 28, 2014 (Friday) in the University Museum and Art Gallery as part of the Musicus Fest 2014 Heritage programme.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Georgina Challen, Public Affairs Manager, Faculty of Arts (tel: 3917 4250 email: gchallen@hku.hk) or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
About the University Artists Scheme
The University Artists Scheme was officially launched in 2008 and is the first programme of its kind to be held at HKU. The Scheme aims to bring artists of international caliber to our campus to enrich the lives of our students, staff, and the wider Hong Kong community through a series of activities usually held over a two-year period. Comments from past participants of all ages have shown how much they value these unique opportunities to exchange ideas and share experiences with award-winning artists.
http://arts.hku.hk/knowledge-exchange/university-artists-scheme
About the University Artists 2014 -2016
Film
Fruit Chan
Award-winning independent Hong Kong filmmaker, screenwriter and producer Fruit Chan is best known for his films depicting the everyday life of local people. His internationally acclaimed films include Made in Hong Kong (1997) and Durian Durian (2000). Fruit Chan’s latest film, The Midnight After, had its world premiere in the Panorama section of the 64th Berlin International Film Festival in February 2014.

John Sham Kin Fun
John Sham has over 35 years of experience in the film industry. He is one of Hong Kong’s most important film producers, as well as a distributor, cinema house investor and operator, actor and scriptwriter. With his depth of understanding of all aspects of the filmmaking process, John Sham offers an invaluable opportunity for students and the public to engage with the creative industries in Hong Kong, China, Asia, and beyond.

Fine Arts
Artstation: Glenn Davidson and Anne Hayes
Anne Hayes and Glenn Davidson are co directors of Artstation, a multi-disciplinary art and technology partnership formed in 1989 and based at Chapter Art Centre in Cardiff Wales. The practice is project based through residencies and placements. Artstation is known for international architectural paper installations, exhibitions, social interventions, films, interactive media projects, architectural design and team working, socially engaged practice and practice led research. Their work has been seen across the UK, USA, Canada, Japan, Australia and in many European countries.

Music
Trey Lee
Born in Hong Kong, Trey Lee is an internationally-renowned cellist who has been awarded several major international prizes. He has appeared in important venues such as the Kremlin, Carnegie Hall and the United Nations General Assembly Hall invited by Secretary General Ban-Ki Moon. He has collaborated with esteemed conductors, composers and orchestras worldwide, including Lorin Maazel, Tan Dun, Bright Sheng, the Philharmonia Orchestra of London, Munich Chamber Orchestra and the Netherlands Philharmonic.  In 2012, Trey was appointed UNICEF Hong Kong Ambassador. His virtuoso playing and dedication to charitable causes are an inspiration to young people in Hong Kong and overseas.

Poetry
Henri Cole
Henri Cole was born in Japan and grew up in Germany and the US. He holds an MFA from Columbia and has been an artist-in-residence at numerous institutions, including Harvard and Yale. His body of work, including eight books of poems, already establishes him as a major writer of our times. Henri Cole, through his poetry, provides a creative means for young people to express the confusion that many of them feel in today’s constantly-evolving world. As the UAS’ first creative writer and poet, he adds the beauty of language to that of film, music and visual art. 


