[title]HKU Faculty of Education 2010 Knowledge Exchange Awards for Staff and Students[/title]
[date]29 Jun 2010[/date]
 

In support of the University's strategic initiative to acknowledge contributions to knowledge exchange, our Faculty is giving out two Knowledge Exchange Awards, one for staff and one for students, to recognize, reward and encourage outstanding performance in knowledge exchange initiatives. A total of 10 nominations were received. We are glad to announce the recipients for the 2010 Faculty Knowledge Exchange Awards for Staff and Students as follows: 
The 2010 Faculty of Education Academic Staff Knowledge Exchange Award goes to The School-University Partnership Team headed by Dr Tammy Kwan (Partnership Director) and Dr Loretta Ho (Acting Partnership Director), comprising academic and administrative staff from various Divisions across the Faculty. The Team is given recognition for its success in developing School-University Partnership (SUP) using the "Whole School Mentoring Support" (WSMS) approach in 9 schools over the past 3 years. The Team is also commended for organizing the annual Partnership Forum and this year on June 26, 2010 with the theme "Rejuvenating Teachers' Professional Lives: A Demonstration of Successful Partnership Classrooms". The forums serve as a good platform for knowledge exchange between the partnership scheme participants and other practitioners of the education field. 
The 2010 Faculty of Education Student Knowledge Exchange Award goes to the Liberal Studies Service &amp; Learning Network (LSSLN) established by undergraduates in the Bachelor of Education Liberal Studies programme [BEd(LibSt)] with an executive cabinet comprising 9 students in the programme, chaired by Chiu Chi Yeung, Ken. The students in the LSSLN were commended for their efforts to serve the community with what they have learnt from the BEd(LibSt) programme, through activities such as the region-wide Liberal Studies project competition for NSS students on which 75 teams of NSS students had now enrolled. About 100 NSS students had already benefitted from a briefing day at the University on April 24, 2010 with more than 20 undergraduates from the BEd(LibSt) programme discussing and assisting them with their topic of research. The Selection Committee was impressed by the self-initiative and commitment of the students in the LSSLN and wish to give encouragement to the group for their upcoming events, such as the 5-day summer course they are planning for school students from various districts such as Central &amp; Western, Wan Chai, Yau Tsim Mong and Yuen Long. The Selection Committee recognised that Faculty staff members, Dr Cheung Chi Kim, Dr Ki Wing Wah, and Dr Lee Yeung have strongly supported and nurtured this group of students and we congratulate them on their mentorship. 
Each winning team will receive HK$10,000 from the Faculty to support their knowledge exchange initiatives. 
For media enquiry and interview request, please contact Ms. Queenie Wong, Development and Communications Manager, Faculty of Education, HKU (Tel: 2219 4270 / mobile: 9220 5840 / fax: 2540 6360 / email: qlpwong@hku.hk) 
Participants of the June Partnership Forum (from left to right), Dr Edward Woo, Principal of Tak Sun Secondary School; Mr Ip Tin Yau Peter, Principal of CCC Kwei Wah Shan College; Mr Chung Lui Pong Gavin, Principal of Lock Tao Secondary School; Professor Stephen Andrews, Associate Dean (Learning &amp; Teaching) of HKU Faculty of Education; Mrs Chan Leung Suk Ching Gloria, Principal of Kau Yan School; Mr Jacob Kung, SMKMCF Ma Ko Pan Memorial College; and Ms Geraldine Davies, HKU Faculty of Education
The students in the HKU Liberal Studies Service &amp; Learning Network organised the region-wide Liberal Studies project competition for New Secondary School students, and discussed and assisted participating teams with their topic of research on April 24, 2010.
 
