[title]Professor of Geotechnical Engineering of University of Western Ontario to deliver Lecture at HKU[/title]
[date]12 Nov 2003[/date]
 
Professor K Y Lo of the University of Western Ontario is to deliver a William Mong Distinguished Lecture entitled The Role of Cohesion in the Stability Evaluation of Concrete Dams on Rock Foundations at 5:30pm on Thursday, November 13, 2003 at Lecture Theatre A, Chow Yei Ching Building, the University of Hong Kong.
Professor K.Y. Lo is a Professor Emeritus and Director of Geotechnical Research Centre of the Department of Civil Engineering, University of Western Ontario, Canada. He received his B.Sc. (Eng.) degree from the University of Hong Kong (1957), M.Sc., DIC from the Imperial College of Science and Technology (1959) and Ph.D. degree from the University of London (1967).
Professor Lo's research covers a wide spectrum of Geotechnical Engineering, including underground structures in rocks for energy and resource development, dams on rock foundations, soft ground tunnelling, and electrical strengthening of soft clays.He has published over 100 papers in refereed journals and conference proceedings and had received Best Paper Awards three times from the Canadian Geotechnical Society.He was awarded Legget Award from Canadian Geotechnical Society (1989), Keefer Medal from Canadian Society for Civil Engineers (1995) and elected Fellow of Engineering Institute of Canada (1992).In recognition of his many contributions to the engineering profession the K.Y. Lo Medal Award has been established by the Engineering Institute of Canada in 1997.
For the safety assessment of existing dams of Ontario Power Generation Inc. (formerly Ontario Hydro), a new methodology for the stability evaluation of concrete dams on rock foundations was developed.This methodology has been applied to 40 dams constructed in the period from 1910 to 1976.At the lecture, Professor Lo will describe the components of the methodology, an essential feature of which is the measurement of the strength parameters between the concrete and the rock at the dam-foundation interface.For this purpose, test apparatus and methods of interpretation of test results were developed, with particular attention paid to the tensile strength and cohesion of bonded contacts.Results of measurements of shear strength on bonded and unbonded concrete/rock contact samples will be presented.Various chemical, mechanical and environmental factors that may affect the contact cohesion will also be discussed.Professor Lo will also present the use of tensile strength and cohesion for stability evaluation at specific sites and his experience and results of the evaluation of 40 dams as well as the performance of some historical dams to verify the persistence of cohesion under certain long term conditions.
Members of the Press and interested party are cordially invited to attend.
 
