[title]HKU Launches the First Cultural Leadership Programme in Asia Expect 100 cultural talents to be nurtured in 5 years[/title]
[date]11 Oct 2010[/date]
 


(from left) Director of Communications Ms Katherine Ma; Professor Daniel Chua, programme Director and Head of HKU School of Humanities; and Professor Lung Ying Tai, HKU Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities

In view of the urgent demand for cultural leaders in the region, The University of Hong Kong in association with the Clore Leadership Programme in UK is pioneering the first cultural leadership programme in Asia. The Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme (ACLP) aims to nurture young talent and re-envision those in senior positions to become outstanding cultural leaders who will transform the region's artistic landscape. 
Cutting-edge Programme and International, World-class Faculty
The ACLP is a world-class programme with an international faculty of 14 cultural experts including Sir John Tusa (Chair of the Clore Leadership Programme), Sandeep Dwesar (Chief Operating and Financial Officer, Barbican Centre), David Sabel (Head of Digital Media, National Theatre London) and Anna Cutler (Director of Learning at Tate). Local and regional academics and cultural entrepreneurs joining the faculty include Prof Lee Chack Fan, Prof Lung Ying Tai, Prof. Chan Yuen Ying, Prof. David Lung, Prof Lui Tai Lok, Benson Puah (Chief Executive Officer of The Esplanade Co Ltd and Singapore's National Arts Council), Sir David Tang, Prof Lo Kai Yin, Stanley Yen and Prof Peter Wong, to name just a few.
The faculty will conduct intensive training sessions and personalised consultancy with the participants during the 6 days retreat, the residential modules and via regular seminars and public lectures. The group will also go to Shanghai and Suzhou during one of the modules to explore critical issues in preservation, conservation and urban regeneration.
The ACLP is a cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural programme which provides world-class training without losing sight of the local sensibilities. In the programme, the faculty and participants will discuss issues including:
1) Leading change: learning about transformative, inspirational, authentic styles of leadership
2) Doing the business: how do you run a sustainable financially sound arts organisation?
3) Working with people: running your team, working with boards, governance.
4) Engaging the audience: Audience building and development, impact of arts on society, branding, marketing, technology and education.
Faculty and participants of the ACLP will form a growing network which will be a long-lasting asset that will support the region's cultural aspirations. 
Hong Kong Needs Cultural Leadership
"Cultural leadership is the ability to transform a society. To achieve Hong Kong's aspiration to be a world-class cultural hub, only cultural leadership can act as a transformative force that can energise and renew the meaning of arts and culture and have an effective impact on society, "said Professor Daniel KL Chua, Director of the ACLP and Head of HKU School of Humanities. 
‘Leadership and management must work together, but leadership training is the critical element that is missing. The programme will open your eyes to cutting-edge business, entrepreneurial, marketing, people and leadership strategies: everything you need to deliver that vision. A total of 100 cultural leaders are expected to be trained over the next 5 years to meet the urgent demand in the region, In addition, a number of full and partial fellowships are also available for dedicated cultural leaders who want to make an impact," Professor Chua added on.
Programme and Fellowships Applications
The ACLP 2011 is now opened for application. Full and partial fellowships are available for local and international applicants. Programme brochure and application forms can be downloaded from http://www.culture.hku.hk/. Application deadline: 1 November 2010.   
Information Session on ACLP
Date:          October 19, 2010 (Tue)
Time:         12:45pm - 2:00pm
Venue:       Room B8, HKU Faculty of Business and Economics, 3/F Tower II, 
                  Admiralty Centre, Admiralty, Hong Kong.
Remarks:    Light lunch will be provided.
Interested participants please attend the information session to know more about the ACLP.  Professor Daniel KL Chua will also be there to answer any queries on the programme and fellowships application. Please contact Ms Rainbow Wong via email (rainbow.wong@hku.hk) or tel 2219 4357 for registration.
Media enquiries, please contact: Ms Candy Wong, Public Relations Manager, Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme, HKU (Tel: 2857 8221, email: mailto:kpmak@hku.hk) or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk)

