[title]The Fifth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships at HKU[/title]
[date]12 Apr 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated its Fifth Inauguration of Endowed Professorships today (April 12). 
At the ceremony, the Sin Wai-Kin Distinguished Visiting Professorship in the Humanities, a university-wide scheme in support of the appointment of distinguished visiting scholars in the humanities, was announced.
The Sin Wai-Kin Distinguished Visiting Professorship in the Humanities was established by Dr Sin Wai-Kin with a HK$20 million donation which was matched by the University to form a permanent endowment of HK$40 million.  The annual investment retune will be used to support annually at least one Sin Wai-Kin Distinguished Visiting Professor in the Humanities, who must be at the forefront of their particular field of expertise.
Also announced at the Inauguration was the establishment of the Zhou Guangzhao Professorship in Natural Sciences.  It is the first time that an Endowed Professorship has been named after an academic on the Chinese Mainland.
The Zhou Guangzhao Professorship in Natural Sciences was created by the Zhou Guangzhao Foundation, of which entrepreneur Dr Chung Kin-Kwok serves as Council President.  The occasion was also a milestone for the Foundation as it marked the first time the Foundation has given an award to a Hong Kong recipient.
"We are proud that, since the first inauguration at 2005, we have 54 Endowed Professorships at the University. We aim to create 100 Endowed Professorships and I am grateful to the community for its support of the University's goal," said Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU.
Endowed Professorships at HKU are created to provide perpetual support to areas of academic excellence.  It is also a privileged honour bestowed upon our distinguished academics.  With a close partnership between academe and generous philanthropists, Endowed Professorships represent a promise to scale new levels of commitment to society and to humankind.
Each Endowed Professorship is established with a generous donation of HK$10 million or more which is matched by the University with an equal amount.  The interest generated from the $20 million endowment is used to support the respective area of academic excellence.  An Advisory Committee ensures the appointments are made in accordance with established university procedures. The Committee members include Dr Raymond K F Ch'ien (Chairman), Professor Kai-Ming Cheng, Dr York Liao, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak and Ms Mary Ma.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Polo Leung, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office on 2241-5677 or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) on 2859 2606 (email: pychoy@hku.hk), Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU.
