[title]Announcement regarding the Centennial College[/title]
[date]04 May 2016[/date]
 
The Board of Governors and the Trustees of Centennial College (the two parties) agreed that the HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education (HKU SPACE) will take on a greater role in the management of the Centennial College (the College) with immediate effect.
The decision, made unanimously by the two parties at a meeting on May 3, 2016 (Tuesday), was jointly announced by Professor Peter Mathieson, in his capacity as Chair of the Trustees of Centennial College and Dr Philip Wu Po-him, Chairman of the Board of Governors of Centennial College.
This will include responsibility for all staffing matters, student recruitment, financial affairs etc. as well as completing the process towards Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications (HKCAAVQ) reaccreditation exercise later this year, and negotiating with the Education Bureau about the future of the Wah Fu campus.
The two parties deemed the changes necessary because of the challenges faced by the College in the current climate: the population demographics and other issues have led to student recruitment being below target; financial concerns about the current business model; and uncertainty about the campus location beyond 2018.
Professor John Malpas, President of Centennial College, has stepped down from the presidency with immediate effect. Professor Malpas will stay on as a Senior Adviser to the Board of Governors of the College for the duration of his original contract (23 months).  Mr Linus Cheung, Chair of the Council of Centennial College, has resigned with effect from July 1 but he will remain a member of the Board of Governors.
Accordingly, Professor William Lee, Director of HKU SPACE, will act as the interim President of the College and the Chair of the HKU SPACE Board Professor Edward Chen will act as the interim Chair of the Council of the College.
The two parties agreed to the arrangements and will ensure that there is continuity during the transition period.  HKCAAVQ has indicated that it is satisfied with these interim arrangements for a period of one year in the first instance.
Professor Peter Mathieson and Dr Philip Wu Po-him thanked Professor John Malpas for his sterling service as the College's inaugural President and Mr Linus Cheung for his leadership of the Council of the College during these challenging early years.  
“We are confident that the new arrangements provide a viable way forward for the College and we remain committed to support the College in any way we can under the new management,” they added.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
