[title]From campus to cabinet: With gratitude, HKU congratulates Professor Lung Ying-taion her appointment as Taiwan’s new cultural minister[/title]
[date]31 Jan 2012[/date]
 



Professor Lung Ying-tai

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) congratulated its distinguished scholar Professor Lung Ying- tai on her new appointment as a minister of Taiwan's new government.
Professor Lung Ying-tai, Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities at HKU, has been appointed Minister of the Council for Cultural Affairs in President Ma Ying-jeou's new cabinet following Mr Ma's victory in the January 14 election.
Professor Chow Shew-Ping, HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Chairman of the Steering Committee of the "Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities" scheme, thanked Professor Lung for her contributions to the University.
"For nearly a century, HKU has been the cradle of some of the greatest creative and artistic minds in the region. At HKU, Professor Lung spread her creative wings and has, through her distinguished and dedicated work, made contributions to the development of art and humanities in Hong Kong as a whole."
"May I wish her all the best in her new post, as she starts this new chapter in her life. I am sure we will continue to see her contributing to the development of contemporary culture in her homeland and fostering even stronger ties with Hong Kong and Greater China."
Professor Lung said she was pleased and proud to be a member of HKU. She said: "Hong Kong is a city which I love, and HKU has provided me with just the right environment to think and write. So, my heartfelt gratitude goes to Hong Kong. My experience here has truly broadened my horizons."
Professor Lung joined the University as a visiting professor of the Journalism and Media Studies Centre in 2004. Since 2008, she has been the Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities at HKU and was the first scholar to be honoured under the scheme, which was made possible by a donation by the Hung Hing Ying and Leung Hau Ling Charitable Foundation.
At HKU, Professor Lung has regularly held a reading salon to meet her fans and has completed a few books, including The Untold Stories of 1949.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
