[title]Launch of Research &amp; Development Project on Kunqu at The University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]22 May 2007[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (May 22) launched the world's first comprehensive project for the archiving, research and promotion Kunqu. The Research &amp; Development Project on Kunqu is headed by internationally renowned scholar Professor Pai Hsien-yung (白先勇). 
Kunqu, which is named as the mother of all kinds of Chinese Qu (opera), has been classified by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) as a master piece of the oral and world intangible heritage since 2001. 
Professor C F Lee, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU, said at the launch ceremony that "HKU takes the greatest honour in participating in the world's most comprehensive research and development of Kunqu. The project embraces the mission of passing on this precious tradition, by carrying out research work, setting up an archive, implementing education and promotion programmes." 
To assist with the inauguration of The National Grand Theatre in Beijing this October, HKU will collaborate with the China Art Academy, the Cultural Industries Institute of Peking University, and the World Heritage Fund to organise a Kunqu International Convention in Beijing. Major activities of the Convention include conferences, an inaugural performance of A Youthful Rendition of the "Peony Pavilion" at the National Grand Theatre and an exhibition of Kunqu. HKU will also set up a Kunqu archive based on the research work which was undertaken for A Youthful Rendition of the "Peony Pavilion". 
The Preparatory Committee for the Research &amp; Development Project comprises vice-chairmen Professor C F Lee and Mr Gabriel Yu, together with research and development members Dr Koo Siu Sun , Professor Serena Jin (Chinese University of Hong Kong) , Professor C Y Sin (HKU), Professor Hua Wei (University of Science and Technology of Hong Kong) and Professor Cheng Pei Kai (City University of Hong Kong). 
For enquires, please contact Ms Denise Wong, Manager (Media) at 2859-2600, or Ms Jo Fan at 2241-5934. 
Photos of the launch ceremony and A Youthful Rendition of the "Peony Pavilion"will be available at www.hku.hk/hkuf/culturefund/kunqu
