[title]Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu[/title]
[date]05 Nov 2008[/date]
 


   Proudly presented by The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
Organised by The University of Hong Kong
Featuring
Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu
Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe 
Hong Kong, 4 November 2008 - Kunqu is the essence of traditional Chinese performing arts: an artistic blend of poetry, painting, music, singing, dance, and drama. Its achievements in the realms of literature, drama, music and fine art have nurtured every Chinese opera form, earning Kunqu the accolade of "the mother of a hundred opera forms". In 2001, Kunqu was recognised by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) as one of the inaugural "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity", the highest honour bestowed upon Kunqu.
Carrying on the heritage of Kunqu is a meaningful undertaking. In view of this, the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation and The University of Hong Kong (HKU) collaborate for the first time to invite the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe and the Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu to perform in Hong Kong. The aim is to foster an understanding and appreciation of Kunqu among the younger generations.
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu is an unprecedented large-scale Kunqu promotion programme in Hong Kong. A series of six demonstration talks on different themes will be conducted at respective tertiary institutions from 4th to 15th November 2008, while six performances will be staged at the Jockey Club Auditorium of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University from 18th to 23rd November 2008 to showcase a variety of Kunqu repertoires. Mobilising over a hundred members from the troupes, including eminent artists and reputable masters, this programme leads young people and the public into the world of Kunqu.
"Exquisite Beauty" Opening Ceremony-cum-First Lecture was held on 4 November 2008 at the Rayson Huang Theatre, HKU. The Opening Ceremony was officiated by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, Mr Robert Hung-Ngai Ho, Founder and Chairman of The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation, Ms Helen Ng, Chief Executive Officer of The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation and Professor Hsien-Yung Pai. The first lecture was on Kunqu "The Jade Hairpin", with Professor Pai as the moderator, and Ms Meiti Yue and Mr Guosheng Weng as the speakers.
Kunqu Masters lead us into the World of Kunqu
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu features the internationally acclaimed Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu and the Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe Young people and the public of Hong Kong will enjoy free admission to a variety of classic repertoires, including The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》, Defeat on the Huarong Pass《華容道》, The Western Chamber《西廂記》, Farewell to the Mother: from The Iron Crown《鐵冠圖‧别母》, At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》, The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》, Winning the Beauty Queen《占花魁》, The Ghost King Marries Off His Sister《鍾馗嫁妹》, Gazing toward the Homeland《望鄉》, Escape of the Little Monk《下山》and Conquest of Demons《請神降妖》.
To deepen understanding of the exquisite beauty of Kunqu in young people and the public, The University of Hong Kong is partnering with various tertiary institutions, including the City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Baptist University and Lingnan University organising six demonstration talks on a wide range of themes, including The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》, The Story of the Beauty Queen《花魁記》, At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》, The Western Chamber《西廂記》and The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》. The talks will be hosted by Professor Hsien-Yung Pai, Xing Yiyun 幸意雲, Dr Si Tou Sau-ieng 司徒秀英，Gu Zhaoshen古兆申, and various prominent Kunqu artists, directors and experts will be guest speakers. They are Yue Meiti 岳美緹, Weng Guosheng翁國生, Zhang Jiqing張繼青, Yao Jikun姚繼焜, Wang Shiyu 汪世瑜, Liang Guyin梁谷音, Cai Zhengren蔡正仁, Zhang Jingxian 張靜嫻, Zheng Peikai鄭培凱, Professor Hua Wei華瑋教授and Zhang Lizhen張麗真.
For media enquiries, please contact:
The University of Hong Kong
Gladys Wong
Tel: +852 9238 3158
Email: hkukunqu@hku.hk
Linkwork - PR agency of The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation
Avis Cheng
Tel: +852 2530 0388
Email: avis.cheng@link-work.com.hk
Exquisite Beauty: The World of Kunqu
Programme Schedule
Performances (free-of-charge)
Venue: Jockey Club Auditorium, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Suzhou Kunqu Opera Theatre of Jiangsu
18 November 2008  7:30pm
The Jade Hairpin《玉簪記》
19 November 2008  7:30pm 
Defeat on the Huarong Pass《華容道》
The Western Chamber《西廂記》
20 November 2008  7:30pm
Farewell to the Mother: from The Iron Crown《鐵冠圖‧別母》
At the Lenke Mountain《爛柯山》
21 November 2008  7:30pm
The Palace of Eternal Life《長生殿》
Shanghai Kunqu Opera Troupe
22 November 2008  7:30pm
Winning the Beauty Queen《占花魁》
23 November 2008  2:30pm
The Ghost King Marries Off His Sister《鍾馗嫁妹》
Gazing toward the Homeland《望鄉》
Escape of the Little Monk《下山》
Conquest of Demons《請神降妖》
Talks (free-of-charge)
4 November 2008  5:30-7:00pm     
The Jade Hairpin
Venue: Rayson Huang Theatre, The University of Hong Kong
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai白先勇
Speakers: Yue Meiti 岳美緹, Weng Guosheng翁國生
5 November 2008  7:30-9:00pm                   
The Story of the Beauty Queen      
Venue: Chiang Chen Studio Theatre, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai白先勇
Speaker: Yue Meiti岳美緹
10 November 2008  2:30-4:20pm           
At the Lenke Mountain
Venue: Room R6143, City University of Hong Kong
Moderator: Xing Yiyun辛意雲
Speakers: Zhang Jiqing張繼青, Yao Jikun姚繼焜
12 November 2008  5:30-7:00pm           
The Western Chamber
Venue: Ben C. M. Wong Lecture Theatre, Lingnan University
Moderator: Dr. Si Tou Sau-ieng司徒秀英
Speakers: Wang Shiyu汪世瑜, Liang Guyin梁谷音
13 November 2008  4:30-6:00pm           
The Palace of Eternal Life
Venue: University Chapel, Hong Kong Baptist University
Moderator: Gu Shaoshen古兆申 
Speakers: Cai Zhengren蔡正仁, Zhang Jingxian張靜嫻
Public Talk
15 November 2008  1:00-2:30pm   
The Beauty of Kunqu
Venue: Room LT401, City University of Hong Kong   
Moderator: Prof. Hsien-yung Pai白先勇
Speakers: Prof. Pei-kai Cheng鄭培凱, Prof. Hua Wei華瑋
Gu Shaoshen古兆申, Zhang Lizhen張麗真
Programme is subject to change without prior notice.



 
From Left to Right: Ms Helen Ng, Chief Executive Officer of The Robert H. N. HoFamily Foundation, Ms Meiti Yue, Professor Hsien-Yung Pai, Mr Guosheng Weng, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU
 
From Left to Right: Ms Meiti Yue, Professor Hsien-Yung Pai, Mr Guosheng Weng
 
Professor Hsien-Yung Pai




