[title]Szeto Wah Collection Turnover Ceremony cum Exhibition[/title]
[date]04 Jan 2012[/date]
 
Highlights of Szeto Wah Collection
The HKU Libraries is deeply grateful to the family of the late Mr. Szeto Wah for donating to us his collections of books, manuscripts and artefacts, which is now formally named as the Szeto Wah Collection. We truly honour Szeto family's rationale for making the donation, which is to maintain the integrity of Szeto Wah's beloved collections and to find them a perpetual home. The Szeto Wah Collection will be permanently housed in the Libraries' Special Collections. It consists of more than 10,000 items of books, periodicals, documents, manuscripts, letters and artefacts. This exhibition displays 50 pieces of artefacts which are selected by the family of the late Mr. Szeto Wah. They include diaries, notebooks, photos, speeches, calligraphy, clippings, etc.
Mr. Szeto Wah, who was more commonly known as Uncle Wah, was a well-respected legend in the local educational sector. He was the founder of the Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union. Mr. Szeto was not only an educator; he was also active in Hong Kong political scene since mid-1970s. He was formerly Chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China, a co-founder of the Democratic Party, and a member of the Legislative Council from 1985 to 2004.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: (852) 2859 2606; email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: (852) 2859 2600; email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


 
Group photo: Mr P.E. Sidorko HKU Librarian and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU Vice-Chancellor, group photo with the family of the late Mr. Szeto Wah
 
From left: Mr P.E. Sidorko, Mr Szeto Keung and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
 
Mr Szeto Keung
 
From left: Mr P.E. Sidorko, Mr Szeto Keung and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
 
Mr Szeto Wah’s ink-pen portrait of Maxim Gorky in 1948. The works of the Soviet Union’s great proletarian author were loved by Mr Szeto when he was a young man.
 
Manuscript of Mr Szeto Wah’s farewell speech at the Legislative Council in June 2000. He returned to the Council through geographical election in September.
 
Things used by the late Mr Szeto in his reading room
 
Mr Szeto Wah’s calligraphic work to commemorate the 20th Anniversary of 4 June 1989


