[title]HKU to Present Honorary University Fellowships to Five Distinguished Persons (Press Invitation)[/title]
[date]07 Dec 2004[/date]
 
Five outstanding individuals will receive the Honorary University Fellowships from the University of Hong Kong (HKU) on Thursday, December 16, 2004. The fellowships will be presented by Dr the Honourable David K P Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor.
The Honorary University Fellowships were created in 1995 for those who are held in the highest regard by the University and to establish closer relationships with the community.
The recipients of the 2004 Honorary University Fellowships will be:
Professor Chan Kwong On Daniel, retired chair professor of zoology of HKU and the former Director of the Kadoorie Agricultural Research Centre, has made significant contributions to a wide range of agricultural research. During his directorship in Kadoorie Agricultural Research Centre, he conducted a wide range of research on conservation, agricultural production, disease control in agriculture and aquaculture as well as established close links and collaborative research with the local agricultural sector and various government departments. He is dedicated to the community's agricultural development and has served in public service groups in many areas. Professor Chan has diverse research interests, including Kamei chicken and the development of waste technology.
Mr Chan Chee Hoi Warren SC, a distinguished counsel in Hong Kong and an alumnus of the University, has made many contributions to his alma mater. Mr Chan has consistently demonstrated his care and concern for the University, the Faculty of Law and legal education and developments in Hong Kong and China. He is a benefactor of the Faculty, and has been heavily engaged in some of the important alumni projects in the faculty. He is also a trustee of The Friends of Tsinghua University Law School Charitable Trust.
Mrs Lee Look Ngan Kwan Christina, is a long-time supporter of HKU's Faculty of Medicine. She has been instrumental to a number of donations made to the Faculty and to the University through the Lee Hysan Foundation, and she herself is Founding Chairman of the HKU Foundation-Bone Health Fund. These donations have been timely and benefited various researches in the Faculty of Medicine. She has played a leading role in successfully raising funds to support medical research, therapeutic treatment to patients as well as public education programmes. Mrs Lee is also widely applauded for her unfailing support for various community groups in the medical and welfare sectors.
Ms Lee Lai Kuen Shelley, together with her Class of 1971, organized the Silver Jubilee Reunion and pioneered this alumni-giving tradition. She helped connect the university to the community by promoting the Young Leaders of Tomorrow scheme. Intimately known as "Community's Godmother", Ms Lee has over the years been active in promoting women's and children's rights and welfare within the civil service and without. She has been caring for the underprivileged, as well as the orphaned and young victims of catastrophes from the Pat Sin Range hillfire to the recent SARS. She is now Permanent Secretary for Home Affairs.
Professor Lo Hong Lit, retired professor of HKU's Department of Chinese, is held in high esteem in Chinese academia first of all for his achievements in classical Chinese poetry. His scholarship extends into the Confucian classics, Chinese history and historiography, different schools of ancient philosophy, the great anthologies, as well as classical philology and phonology. He is also one of the finest ci poets in contemporary China. He taught in HKU from 1966 to 1983. During these years he had supervised well over forty postgraduate students pursuing higher studies in classical Chinese literature.
The presentation ceremony will be held at 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, December 16, 2004 in the Rayson Huang Theatre at the University main campus. Media representatives are cordially invited to attend. For media enquiries, please contact Miss Polo Leung at HKU's External Relations Office (tel: 2859 2600).
