[title]HKU Launched "First-in-the-Family Education Fund"[/title]
[date]08 Apr 2008[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) launched the "First-in-the-Family Education Fund" (FIFE Fund) and announced a generous donation of HK$1M per year for five years from Mr Yeung Kwok Keung, Chairman of Country Garden Holdings Ltd at a press conference today. 
Presiding at the press conference were Mr Yeung Kwok Keung, Chairman of Country Garden Holdings Ltd, Mr David Wong, representative from HKU Foundation and Chairman of Steering Committee of the FIFE Fund, Mr Cho Chi Ming, Executive Director of Hong Kong Economic Journal Ltd., Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, and Dr Albert Chau, Dean of Student Affairs of HKU.
Hong Kong is a knowledge society.  University education is an investment in future generations. Higher education now plays an even more crucial role in improving lives of future generations.  The FIFE Fund supports HKU's endeavour to nurture and develop talents to meet the changing demands of a knowledge-based society. HKU has expanded the concept of curriculum to the totality of undergraduate experience and encouraged students to widen their horizons and embrace innovative thinking through taking part in a variety of forms of learning activities, e.g. fieldwork, internships, study trips, overseas service learning and exchange programmes.  
The FIFE Fund is established to celebrate those who are the first in the family to attend university by encouraging them to embrace the intellectual challenges of higher education, and enable them to benefit from new learning opportunities outside the classroom beyond their families' affordability.  
The Scheme will be implemented in the academic year 2008-2009.  Full-degree undergraduate students, who are the first generation of university students in the family, (that is, both the father and mother do not have a university education) and with a monthly household income of $12,000 or less, are eligible for the FIFE Fund upon entry to the University.  Successful applicants will each be granted at least $10,000 so that they may participate in the above mentioned learning activities throughout the duration of their undergraduate studies.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said, "The idea of the First-in-the-Family Education Fund is to advocate equal learning opportunities among students despite their family backgrounds. Now in its first year, the Scheme has received support from The University of Hong Kong Foundation For Educational Development and Research and Mr Yeung Kwok Keung. We hope to see more and more support for the FIFE Fund from society." This means that no student will be deprived of good university education at HKU because of family backgrounds or financial difficulties.
A survey conducted by the HKU Centre of Development and Resources for Students (CEDARS) showed that each year there are some 600 students eligible for the FIFE Fund.  It is estimated that the Scheme would require an annual budget of HK$6 million. Mr Yeung's annual donation of HK$1M will benefit 100 first-year undergraduate students.
Another aim of the FIFE Fund is to promote the act of "paying forward" among students. Students are expected to advance Hong Kong society and provide opportunities for the generations after them.
According to statistics, in the academic year 2007-08, 29% of first-year students are from families with household incomes of less than $10,000 (including some on public assistance scheme), and 56.8% from households with incomes below $20,000.   The learning activities are not currently supported by the Government's student financial assistance. HKU, through the support of society, bears the expense of these new learning activities and must provide financial aid to students so that an equal-opportunity learning platform can be built.
For details, please visit: http://www.fife.hku.hk/
or media enquiries, please contact:-
Ms Polo Leung of HKU Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office (Tel: 2241 5677 / E-mail: pololeung@hku.hk ), or
Ms Denise Wong of HKU External Relations Office (Tel.: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)



 
Mr Yeung Kwok Keung presented a cheque of $5M to Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.
 
Sharing by Mr Cho Chi Ming
 
Mr Cho was presented a HKU retro as a souvenir and with delights, put it on immediately.
 
Sharing by Year 3 students, Wise Tsui
 
Sharing by Year 3 students, Chu Ka Ming



