[title]HKU Vice-Chancellor awarded honorary fellowship by The Royal College of Physicians of London[/title]
[date]22 Aug 2005[/date]
 
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong, has just been awarded an honorary fellowship by The Royal College of Physicians of London in recognition of his excellence and commitment in the field of Medical Genetics. Professor Tsui is the only recipient outside of UK and USA among nine eminent individuals on this year's award list. 
Professor Tsui has made major contributions to the mapping, cloning and characterization of the gene mutated in cystic fibrosis as well as the molecular genetics of this genetic order. In addition, he has made significant contributions to the mapping and annotation of human chromosome 7, and, identification of many other disease genes. He also served as President of the Human Genome Organisation. 
Professor Tsui established the HKU Genome Research Centre of which he is the Director. This is the home for many genome research projects and provides a suite of genomics and proteomics facilities in Hong Kong and for the region. In addition Professor Tsui leads a team of Hong Kong scientists, as part of the Chinese Consortium in the International HapMap Project that involves scientists in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Canada, China and Nigeria. The Hong Kong Hapmap Group has contributed 2.5% of the work. The goal of the Project is to develop a (haplotype) map of the human genome, whereby its pattern of common DNA sequence variations can be deciphered. The information will lead us to better understanding of human evolution and the genetic causes of many common diseases. 
“It is a great privilege to be recognized by The Royal College of Physicians of London,”said Professor Tsui. “Working in the field of genetics is both fascinating and challenging, the more we understand it, the better the solutions we could provide to health, disease, drug development and environmental problems. The future is definitely more exciting than what we've done so far", he added. 
Honorary Fellowship is the College's prestigious award, given for exceptional services to the science or practice of medicine. This year, The Royal College of Physicians of London has conferred honorary fellowships upon nine individuals. Apart from Professor Tsui, there are distinguished names in government, academia and business. These include Jeff Griffiths of Cardiff University, Martin B Harris of University of Manchester, Philip Hunt of House of Lords, London, Trevor Jones of King's College Hospital, Stephen A P O'Connor of Interventional Product Division of Datascope Medical Ltd., Hugh Phillips of The Royal College of Surgeons of England, Stephen W Smye of St James University Hospital and Henri Termeer of Genzyme Corporation. Professor Tsui is the second Honorary Fellow of non-clinician background from Hong Kong, after Professor Vivian Chan Nap Yee of Department of Medicine, also from HKU. 
Founded in 1518, The Royal College of Physicians, London is a professional membership organization that aims to promote the advance of medical knowledge, improve standards for clinical practice as well as to advise the Government, the public and the profession on healthcare issues. The College has approximately 20,000 Fellows and Members worldwide. 
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2606 or email cherry.cheung@hku.hk 
August 22, 2005
