[title]University Artists Scheme: Film Screening of Night and Fog and Meet-the-Artist session with Director Ann Hui, University Artist of HKU, Faculty of Arts[/title]
[date]26 May 2009[/date]
 
The Faculty of Arts gladly and proudly announces that film director Ann Hui (許鞍華) has been appointed as the University Artist for the University Artists Scheme (UAS) from 2008-2010. 
There will be a Meet-the-Artist Session with Ann Hui to discuss her latest film "Night and Fog" on May 29, 2009 (Fri) at the Rayson Huang Theatre, HKU from 6-7pm. The film is inspired by an actual family murder which happened in Tin Shui Wai in 2004. It is about a young Mainland woman trapped in a wretched marriage to an unemployed man. It will be an exciting evening session in which Ann Hui will meet with audience and also dialogue with Dr Gina Marchetti and Dr Esther C.M. Yau from the Department of Comparative Literature, HKU. 
The programme will be conducted in English. Free admission, all are welcome. Please register at: http://arts.hku.hk/events/ann_hui
About the Director and the University Artists Scheme (UAS):
Ann Hui is an internationally renowned film director who has played a paramount role in the history of Hong Kong cinema. She is a prolific filmmaker, having produced more than 20 films. Her films include "The Secret" (1979), "Love in a Fallen City" (1984), "Song of the Exile" (1990), "Summer Snow" (1995), "Ordinary Heroes" (1999), "July Rhapsody" (2002) and the recent award-winning work "The Postmodern Life of My Aunt" (2007), "The Way We Are" (2008), as well as her latest film "Night and Fog" (2009). Her film, "The Way We Are", swept the 28th Hong Kong Film Awards, winning four prizes, most notably Best Director, Best Screenplay and Best Actress. She is an alumna of the Faculty of Arts and a graduate from English and Comparative Literature of our university. 
The University Artists Scheme (UAS), with its focus on artists of an international caliber, is the first of its kind at the University of Hong Kong. We look forward to bringing world-renowned artists to the campus to enrich the lives of our students. University Artists will pursue projects and activities through workshops, screenings, exhibitions and performance events. They will have an opportunity to enter into direct contact, and work closely with colleagues, practitioners and students in the University and the community at large. 
The University Artists Scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts and supported by Wah Ching Fund. 
The programme is organized by Department of Comparative Literature and supported by Mega-Vision Pictures Limited. 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Arts Faculty, HKU (Tel: 2859 8048, email: kpmak@hku.hk) 

