[title]HKU Students team with Ocean Park Conservation Foundation, Hong Kong to help save endangered animals[/title]
[date]09 Mar 2006[/date]
 
DENTS RETURN FROM OPCFHK FUNDED FIELD RESEARCH TRIPS
Ocean Park Conservation Foundation, Hong Kong (OPCFHK) today announced that The University of Hong Kong students have contributed to the conservation of endangered Asian animals including the giant pandas and the Baijis (Yangtze River Dolphin). Sponsored by OPCFHK, eight students from The University of Hong Kong Department of Ecology and Biodiversity recently participated in four different OPCFHK funded field research projects, led by leading international scientists, to gain first-hand experience in the field for the conservation projects. 
"PCFHK's Sponsored programme allows these students to experience the rewards and challenges of field work," said Timothy Ng, Administrative Co-ordinator, OPCFHK. 
"We are pleased our students can team with OPCFHK and appreciative of the Foundation's sponsorship. The University Student Sponsorship Programme gives our students the chance to work with world-leading scientists on conservation projects that will hopefully lead to their longer-term involvement in the conservation field," said Dr. Gray A. Williams, The University of Hong Kong. 
The 2005-06 OPCFHK University Sponsorship research projects included:
 - Studying the threatened Chinese White Dolphin (Indo-Pacific Humpback Dolphin) in Guangxi to understand how their population is being threatened by humans and help develop proper conservation measures. They number fewer than 150 in Guangxi waters.
 - Studying the ecosystem of the Mabian Dafengding Nature Reserve, Sichuan to understand how diverse the animals and plants are in the region. 
 - Monitoring the finless porpoise and baiji populations in Poyang Lake, China to understand how scientists make recommendations on saving these endangered freshwater mammals from extinction. With their habitat in China shrinking, there are less than 50 baiji left in the Yangtze River.
 - The study of giant pandas using enrichment items designed by students to stimulate giant pandas both physically and mentally in order to keep them healthy in zoological facilities.
According to Suzanne M. Gendron, Foundation Director, OPCFHK, there are growing opportunities in conservation-related jobs in Hong Kong and China. However the industry is experiencing a shortage of talent and more young professionals are needed.
"OPCFHK is addressing the shortage of talent in the conservation field by inspiring university students, through gaining first-hand experience working on conservation projects while still at university, to pursue a career in conservation," said Gendron. 
About Ocean Park Conservation Foundation, Hong Kong
Ocean Park Conservation Foundation, Hong Kong is a independent charitable organisation established by Ocean Park in 1993, adopting its current name on 1 July, 2005. As the conservation arm of Ocean Park, it advocates, facilitates and participates in the conservation of Asian wildlife and habitats through research and education. Its vision is to ensure the sustainability of wildlife and biodiversity. While primarily funded by Ocean Park, the Foundation is also reliant on other caring corporations and donors in order to make a real difference in the conservation efforts throughout Asia. For details of Ocean Park Foundation Conservation Hong Kong, please visit www.opcf.org.hk
For more information please contact Ms Cherry Cheung, External Relations Office, HKU at 28592606.
