[title]HKU's Chair of Comparative Education to Deliver Inaugural Professorial Lecture[/title]
[date]04 Feb 2004[/date]
 
Professor Mark Bray, Dean of Faculty of Education and Chair of Comparative Education of the University of Hong Kong is to deliver an inaugural professorial lecture entitled Comparative Education: Traditions, Applications, and the Role of HKU at 3:00pm on Saturday, February 7, 2004 at Rayson Huang Theatre, the University of Hong Kong.
Professor Mark Bray is Dean of the Faculty of Education at HKU, where he holds a personal Chair of Comparative Education. He joined the Faculty of Education in 1987, prior to which he taught in secondary schools in Kenya and Nigeria, and at the Universities of Edinburgh, Papua New Guinea and London.His service to the Faculty includes periods as Head of the Department of Education (1991-1995) and Director of the Comparative Education Research Centre (1996-2002). 
Professor Bray is author/editor of over 25 books and over 170 chapters and articles, one of which was designated Outstanding International Study of the Year (1996).In 2000 he was given an Outstanding Researcher award by HKU. From 1998 to 2000, Professor Bray was President of the Comparative Education Society of Hong Kong (CESHK).He has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Comparative Education Society of Asia (CESA) and of the US-based Comparative &amp; International Education Society (CIES), and he is now Secretary General of the World Council of Comparative Education Societies (WCCES). 
This lecture will begin by reviewing some important trends in the field of comparative education.Traditionally, the field has been especially concerned with cross-national comparisons, taking countries as the unit for analysis.More recently the field has been invigorated by new approaches and by diversification of the units for analysis.Scholars in Asia, including academics associated with the Comparative Education Society of Hong Kong (CESHK), have become increasingly prominent.
The lecture will then turn to applications of comparative education tools in both academic and professional domains. It will critically analyse some problems of applications, taking examples from both Hong Kong and other parts of the world. 
Finally, the lecture will consider the role of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) in the field of comparative education.The contributions by scholars in HKU have stretched back many decades, and gained prominence with the establishment of the Comparative Education Research Centre (CERC) in the Faculty of Education in 1994. The lecture will highlight the work of CERC, with a perspective on its continuing contribution to HKU's role in international academic leadership. 
Members of the Press and interested parties are cordially invited to attend.For enquiries, please contact Ms Mang of HKU's Comparative Education Research Centre at 2857 8541.
 
