[title]New Jazz at HKU : The Joe Rosenberg Quartet[/title]
[date]26 Aug 2008[/date]
 


Picture 1

Presented by School of Humanities (Department of Music)
September 23, 2008 (Tuesday) at 7:30pm
Loke Yew Hall, HKU
FREE ADMISSION      
Seats are limited - first come, first served.
Enquiries: 2859 7045, www.hku.hk/music/concerts
The presenter reserves the right to change the programme and artists
The School of Humanities, Department of Music at the University of Hong Kong will present an evening concert: "New Jazz with the Joe Rosenberg Quartet" at 7:30 pm on Tuesday, 23 September at the Loke Yew Hall, The University of Hong Kong. Admission is free.
Black Saint artist Joe Rosenberg has lived in Asia for many years and performs regularly with distinguished artists in New York and San Francisco. Rosenberg is a soprano saxophonist, bass clarinetist, as well as a composer and his music shares the explosive energy and surprise of the best jazz with the sense of wonder of the avant-garde. Members of his band include: Masako Hamamura on piano, Peter Scherr on bass and Edward Perraud on drums. These musicians are master improvisers and their unique physical approaches to playing makes for fascinating viewing. Perraud, Scherr and Rosenberg have been featured at the Le French May over the years presenting exciting and creative jazz to a rapt audience.
Masako Hamamura graduated from Koyo Conservatory in Kobe and Berklee College. She received the Toshiko Akiyoshi Award in 1994 and the Quincy Jones award and Piano Department Chair Award in 1996 from Berklee College. Peter Scherr is an American bassist/composer/musical strategist living in Hong Kong. He has over 20 years of professional experience ranging from positions with symphony orchestras through to jazz and experimental music performance and composition. Edward Perraud, a Paris percussionist, with a formidable resume works constantly throughout Europe with the finest, most creative improvisers in music. Under his touch, the drum set becomes a rich orchestra of fascinating variety and energy.
The HKU concert series presents an average of 8-10 concerts each semester. It aims at promoting cross-cultural understanding in the spirit of mutual cooperation. Outstanding musicians and performers from Hong Kong and abroad are invited to share their talent and virtuosity with the University community and the public at large. Other upcoming programmes will include KOLSIMCHA - The Voice of Joy from Switzerland to be held on 6 October, Concert of 2008 Hong Kong International Festival of Chinese Orchestras (V) on 8 October 2008 at Loke Yew Hall, 7:30 pm. Admission is free. For programme details, please visit www.hku.hk/music/concerts
Media Contact: Ms. Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Tel: 2859 8048, Fax: 2548 5231 / Email: kpmak@hku.hk

