[title]The 183rd Congregation of The University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]30 Nov 2010[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) conferred degrees upon a total of 7,183 graduands at the 183rd Congregation held today (November 30) at the Asia World Expo.
This year, 339 of the graduands are at the doctoral level, 3,316 are at the master level and 3,528 at the bachelor level. The Pro-Chancellor of HKU, Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po, presided over the Congregation.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui congratulated the graduates on behalf of the University.
"As the Class of 2010, ........you now stand with over 138,000 graduates who have gone on to serve their community with the knowledge and leadership education received from this great University."
Professor Tsui said the graduates are part of a lineage that links them back to the 23 students who made history in 1916 by becoming the first cohort of HKU graduates.
With the University approaching its centenary, Professor Tsui recalled what the then Governor Sir Frederick Lugard said at the HKU Foundation Stone Ceremony on the 16th of March 1910 that the graduates of the University would "aim to make their country better and greater, and to share with others the benefits they have themselves received".
"I can say it loud and clear that, 100 years on, the graduates of HKU have lived up to Sir Frederick's aspirations.
"It is the excellent quality of our graduates, like you, and that of our teachers, that have brought the university such recognition and respect, raising it to become the Number One university in Asia two years in a row," he added.
Dr John Chan Cho-chak, the Guest of Honour, encouraged the graduates to be a committed employee to take a long-term view of their career and to work efficiently with quality.
Dr Chan has served the Hong Kong Government in many capacities; he was the Managing Director of the Kowloon Motor Bus Company and was immediate past Chairman of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. He shared with the graduates what employers look for in their employees.
"The most important of these requirements is productivity, that is to say, the extent to which the employee has produced the desired results. Productivity is not just a measure of the amount of work done. The quality of the work is equally if not even more important.
"A committed employee is one who will always stand ready to do his best for the organization, and who will always put the organisation's interests ahead of his personal interests."
He said an employee who is productive and committed, has a high level of personal integrity and is minded to keep learning will be real asset to the organization in which he works.
"He will be making valuable contributions to the organisation's success and, through that, to the economic and social development of Hong Kong. I can assure you that most employers in Hong Kong will recognise and value such an employee and will reward him generously," said Dr Chan.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui's Address:
www.cpao.hku.hk/media/vcspeech_e.doc
Guest of Honour Dr John Chan's Address:
www.cpao.hku.hk/media/John_chan_speech_e.doc
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
The 183rd Congregation of The University of Hong Kong
 
The Pro-Chancellor of HKU, Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po, presides over the Congregation
 
The Guest of Honour Dr John Chan Cho-chak and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
 
HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po confers degrees on the graduands
 
HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po confers degrees on the graduands
 
HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr the Honorable David Li Kwok Po confers degrees on the graduands
 
HKU graduates at the Congregation
 
HKU graduates at the Congregation



