[title]ALLIANCE OF EXCELLENCE[/title]
[date]30 Mar 2006[/date]
 
HKU LI KA SHING FACULTY OF MEDICINE INITIATES INTERNATIONAL NETWORK TO TACKLE GLOBAL PANDEMICSAND AGING POPULATIONS 
The first planning meeting for an international network of Asian and Western medical research faculties initiated by HKU's Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine to tackle the health threats posed by greying populations and global pandemics will be held in Hong Kong on April 2nd and 3rd (Sunday &amp; Monday). It will develop plans for a ground-breaking international conference on biomedical sciences at the University of Hong Kong early next year which is expected to capture the attention of the world's scientific and medical communities. 
The major members of the East-West Alliance are four renowned research-led universities: University of California, Berkeley, University of Cambridge, University of Toronto and The University of Hong Kong.
The Alliance aims to develop high-impact research and educational projects. The initial focus of the collaborating faculties will be to develop a global network which can meet the challenges of aging populations and emerging infections that threaten world health. 
The planning meeting will be joined by distinguished biomedical academics, including: 
- Professor Randy Schekman, Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
- Professor Fiona Watt, Deputy Director, Li Ka Shing Centre (CR-UK Cancer Research Centre), University of Cambridge,
- Professor Patrick Sissons, Dean, School of Clinical Medicine, University of Cambridge, and
- Professor Arthur Slutsky, Vice President of Research, St Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto.
Professor SK Lam, Dean of HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said: "The formation of an international alliance of biomedical institutions committed to finding solutions for some of the most pressing challenges for the health of people around the world will transcend geographical and cultural barriers. Greying societies and the international spread of disease as demonstrated by SARS and the threat of avian flu requires a collaborative and large-scale commitment of resources, drawing on the finest minds and first-rate research from some of the world's leading medical faculties. These global threats require an internationally coordinated response which the University of Hong Kong and Hong Kong at the crossroads of the East and West are uniquely positioned to knit together."
The Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine hopes that the East-West Alliance will facilitate a conference on biomedical sciences which will be held early 2007 to tie in with the Faculty's 120th anniversary. 
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Polo Leung (tel: 2241 5677) or Miss Wendy Wong (tel: 2809 5104).
