[title]Latest research findings on H3N2 influenza virus from HKU[/title]
[date]16 Feb 2015[/date]
 
About the Research Team
The research was conducted by:
Dr Susan Chiu, Clinical Associate Professor of the Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Dr Benjamin J Cowling, Associate Professor of the School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Prof J. S. Malik Peiris, Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Medical Science and Chair Professor and Director of the School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Professor Gabriel M. Leung, Director of the WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Background
Researchers in Hong Kong have a world-class reputation in research on influenza viruses, and a research group based at the University of Hong Kong have recently been awarded $80m from the University Grants Committee for a project entitled “Viral, Host and Environmental Determinants of Influenza Virus Transmission and Pathogenesis” under the coordination of Prof Malik Peiris, Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Medical Science, and Chair Professor and Director of the School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.  Researchers in the School of Public Health HKU are supported by a large commissioned grant from the Health and Medical Research Fund, under the Food and Health Bureau of the HKSAR government.
The School of Public Health, HKU, was recently designated as a WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, the first such centre in HKU.  "After the SARS epidemic in 2003, Government has provided strong support for the development of infectious disease epidemiology research at the University through the Health and Medical Research Fund (incorporating the former Research Fund for the Control of Infectious Diseases).  This signal award of Collaborating Centre status by the WHO is the culmination of this partnership between HKU and the Food and Health Bureau for the protection of the public’s health in Hong Kong and across our region", said Professor Gabriel M Leung, Director of WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.
Please visit the website at http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases for press photos and the powerpoint presentation.

Professor J. S. Malik Peiris (Left 1), Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Medical Science, Chair Professor and Director, School of Public Health, Dr Benjamin J. Cowling (Left 2), Associate Professor and Division Head of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Dr Susan S. Chiu (Right 2), Clinical Associate Professor of Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Professor Gabriel M. Leung (Right 1), Director of WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU took a group photo after the press conference.

Professor Gabriel M. Leung, Director of WHO Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU points out that vaccine effectiveness against H3N2 is 46% for children in Hong Kong.



Dr Susan S. Chiu, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU points out that the percentage of Hong Kong children receiving influenza vaccination has been low and encourages children to get vaccinated.


