[title]HKU wins the Inaugural Louis Vuitton Supply Chain University Contest[/title]
[date]16 Aug 2015[/date]
 
“Team HKG” represented by the students of the Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Business and Economics, the University of Hong Kong (HKU), won the inaugural Louis Vuitton Supply Chain University Contest held earlier with its outstanding design on logistics distribution strategy.
With the aim of sharing knowledge with the supply chain management communities in top universities worldwide and soliciting innovative ideas from those universities, especially from young students who would be its recruits in the future, Louis Vuitton has been holding the contest for more than half-a-year since starting it in September 2014. Students from six top universities in Europe, North America and Asia participated in this contest, under the coaching of Louis Vuitton supply chain experts, and gained valuable experience and professional knowledge in tackling a real world problem.
The champion “Team HKG” was comprised of students from HKU – Mr. Tobey Ko (PhD postgraduate), Ms Stephanie Wong and Mr. Horace Cheng (undergraduates) from the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing System Engineering and Ms Tina Li (undergraduate) from the Faculty of Business and Economics. The winning team was awarded the champion trophy and souvenirs at a prize presentation ceremony.
The question posed to the contestants was on how to optimise Louis Vuitton’s global supply chain by designing a suitable distribution strategy, which aimed at manufacturing and delivering goods, in a just-in-time manner, in the right amount using the right method at the right cost.  Also, Louis Vuitton asked the contestants to minimise the carbon footprint incurred in the transportation processes.  The team received from Louis Vuitton, on a weekly basis, the forecast, inventory and production data, including stock turnover, for it to make production-distribution decisions.  Its proposed model was then put to the test with the weekly data provided by Louis Vuitton. 
Members of Team HKG found simulation modelling to be their favourite part of this contest, as it allowed them to consider the supply chain critically for making decisions that would take effect in the real world. The contest has helped the team gain invaluable experience in solving complex problems, and in learning the skills to present their solutions to supply chain professionals.  
For media enquiries please contact Faculty of Engineering Ms Esther Lau (Tel: 2859 1924/ email: estherlc@hku.hk).

The winning Team HKG members (from left) Ms Stephanie Wong, Ms Tina Li, Ms Tobey Ko and undergraduate studebt Mr. Horace Cheng. 

(From left) Group photo of Ms Sonia Cheung (LV representative), Mr. Vincent Barale (LV representative), four members of Team HKG,, Dean of HKU Faculty of Engineering Professor Norman Tien and Mr. Sorin Ciocan-Vladescu (LV representative). 


