[title]HKU Research to Review Building Construction Safety Measures[/title]
[date]09 Nov 2006[/date]
 
The number of construction accidents in Hong Kong is high when compared to other countries in Asia.The Hong Kong Government and private developers have spent over HK$1 billion every year to improve site safety, with more than 10 legislative and voluntary measures implemented at the same time.Also, a dialogue with the insurance industry was started though results have yet to be explored.Yet the effectiveness of these measures and the overall strategy on improving safety on construction sites remain unknown.
In view of this, the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK) and the Hong Kong Construction Association (HKCA) have granted subsidies to The University of Hong Kong's Department of Real Estate and Construction (HKU) to carry out a 12-month research entitled "Cost Effectiveness of Building Construction Safety Measures and Regime for HK" within the industry, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of existing measures and to recommend the strategy ahead.The research is expected to complete in September 2007.
In particular, the research aims to help achieve the following two targets laid down by the Hong Kong Construction Association: 
1. "Zero Deaths on construction site":In 2005, 25 deaths were recorded on construction sites, it is hoped that "zero deaths" would be achieved in 2008; 
2. "Less than 10 accidents per 1000 workers": In 2005, there was an average of about 60 accidents per 1000 construction workers, it is hoped that the number of reportable accidents per 1000 workers on the sites of members of the Hong Kong Construction Association will be reduced to "less than 10 accidents" in 2008.
A signing ceremony for the research agreement was held today (9 November 2006) with HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor CF Lee and CII-HK Executive Member Mr. Stephen Fong representing both parties, as well as Mr. Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, JP, Permanent Secretary for Economic Development &amp; Labour (Labour) &amp; Commissioner for Labour as officiating guest.
Mr Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, said that the project, "Cost Effectiveness on Building Construction Safety Measures and Regime for Hong Kong", aims to identify factors leading to construction accidents and evaluate the impact of various safety measures on the cost effectiveness of the safety regime."I trust that the research will come up with practical, solution-oriented strategies for further improving safety and health at work in the construction industry," he said.
HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor CF Lee said, "The University is very excited about it and very proud of our research team which has won this contract.The subject being investigated is of utmost importance to the industry.We would like to thank CII for entrusting us with this important task.Successful accident prevention requires a change of mindset – a culture change.It is recognized that clients, consultants and contractors must all coordinate in order to drive this change forward.We look forward to a strong partnership with the CII, for the benefit of the construction industry and the Hong Kong community in the years ahead."
Professor Steve Rowlinson and Dr. SW Poon from HKU's Department of Real Estate and Construction will lead the research team.Participants in the research include: Buildings Department, Housing Authority, Labour Department, MTR Corporation, Sun Hung Kei Properties, Swire Properties, Hip Hing Construction Co. and Able Engineering Co. Ltd., Munich Reinsurance Company, Southa Technical Ltd., Davis Langdon &amp; Seah Hong Kong Limited, Ronald Lu &amp; Partners and Wong Po Kee Ltd etc.International advisors for the research include experts from Singapore, Japan, USA, UK and Australia. 
CII-HK is to improve continuously all aspects of safety, quality, cost effectiveness and environmental performance of construction through innovation and collaboration in research and implementation by the industry and academia. It is established to offer solution-oriented strategies for the advancement of the construction industry in Hong Kong.
For photos of the ceremoony please click in http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia/ and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery".
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, External Relations Office, HKU at 2859 2606.
