[title]HKU Heritage Trails[/title]
[date]19 Nov 2011[/date]
 
To celebrate the centenary of the University, the University of Hong Kong (HKU) will organise a series of special campus tours led by "Scholastic Tour Leaders" starting from November 2011. Each month will embrace a different theme. The purpose of the tours is to give the community at large, especially the younger generations, the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the history and architecture of HKU, as well as Hong Kong culture, and pass that knowledge on to future generations. The HKU Heritage Tails is part of the "Heritage 100" activities.
The first tour was held today (November 19). Featuring the University's historic buildings, participants followed Professor David Lung, Dean of the Faculty of Architecture, to visit different buildings in HKU, including the Main Building, the oldest architectural structure at HKU main campus, Sun Yat-sen Plaza, Lily Pond, Robert Black College which incorporated Chinese style architectural elements, the University Lodge which was designed and constructed in Art Deco style, and the University Hall of neo-gothic style.
Five more tours will be held from December 2011 to April 2012  :
HKU Memories from the Archives Exhibition Tours - Ms Stacy Gould, the University Archivist and Mr Yeung Chun-tong, Director of the University Museum and Art Gallery will introduce the artefacts and documents that have never been exhibited in the HKU Memories from the Archives Exhibition to participants.
HKU Story - Historian Dr Joseph Ting will talk about the history of HKU and its influence on Hong Kong
Students "Chill-out" Places: Past and Present - Professor Lui Tai-lok, Academic Officer of the Department of Sociology, will lead the participants to visit the popular "Chill-out" places of HKU students in Central and Western district
Literary Footsteps - Ms Wu Yin-ching will lead the participants to follow the footsteps of renowned HKU graduates and scholars, such as Eileen Chang, and visit their favourite haunts in HKU
Landscape Tour - Professor C Y Jim, Chair Professor of Geography in the Department of Geography, will introduce the wide variety of plants and landscape at campus, including Hong Kong Champion Trees next to the Lily Pond.
For details and registration, please visit http://100.hku.hk/heritage/trails.
Apart from organising these special campus tours, HKU also launches the "iTour HKU" platform. This platform allows visitors design their own itinerary and explore HKU at their own pace and according to their interests. iTour HKU includes background information and audio tracks introducing the history and landmarks of the HKU Main Campus.
For media enquiry, please contact Ms Bryony Wong of the Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office (Tel: 2219 4574, e-mail: bryonyw@hku.hk)
HKU Heritage Trails
1. Architecture Tour - Nov 19, 2011 (Saturday) 15:00 - 17:30
The tour will introduce participants to HKU's historic buildings and how they have witnessed the development of the University.
Led by: Professor David Lung
Professor Lung is a renowned architect in Hong Kong. He is currently the Dean of the Faculty of Architecture and UNESCO Chair in Cultural Heritage
2. HKU Memories from the Archives Exhibition Tours Dec 10, 2011 and Jan 14, 2012 (Saturday) 15:00 - 17:30
Ms Stacy Gould, the University Archivist and Mr Yeung Chun-tong, Director of the University Museum and Art Gallery will introduce the artefacts and documents that have never been exhibited in the HKU Memories from the Archives Exhibition to participants.
Led by: Ms Stacy Gould, the University Archivist (3pm to 4pm, conducted in English)
Led by: Mr Yeung Chun-tong, Director of the University Museum and Art Gallery (4:30pm - 5:30pm, conducted in Cantonese)
3. HKU Story Jan 8, 2012 (Sunday) 15:00 - 17:00
HKU has witnessed the changes to Hong Kong and grown with the city. The tour will talk about the history of HKU and its influence on Hong Kong.
Led by: Dr Joseph Ting
Dr Joseph Ting is a historian who graduated from HKU, where he majored in Chinese Literature and History. He is also a former Chief Curator of Hong Kong History Museum.
4. Students "Chill-out" Places: Past and Present  Feb 04, 2012 (Saturday) 15:00 - 17:00
The popular "Chill-out" places in Central and Western district of HKU students have changed over the past century and the tour will "walk through" those places of the past and present...
Led by: Professor Lui Tai-lok
Professor Lui Tai-lok graduated from HKU and the University of Oxford. He is currently an Academic Officer of the Department of Sociology. He has also published a range of books about the local Hong Kong culture.
5. HKU Literary Footsteps Mar 03, 2012 (Saturday) 15:00 - 17:00
The tour will follow the footsteps of renowned HKU graduates and scholars, such as Eileen Chang and Edmund Blunden, and visit their favourite haunts on campus.
Led by: Ms Wu Yin-ching
Ms Wu Yin-Ching graduated from HKU, majoring in Chinese and English Language. She is currently an Associate Professor of the Language Centre at Hong Kong Baptist University. She has loved writing since high school and has published a variety of books on prose, poetry and children's fiction.
6. Landscape Tour Apr 14, 2012 (Saturday) 15:00 - 17:00
The HKU Campus is located in Pokfulam with more than 50 hectares. It is adorned with a variety of trees and flowering plants. The tour will explore different landscapes at HKU over times.
Led by: Professor C Y Jim
Professor C Y Jim, graduated from HKU, majoring in Geography and Geology. He is currently a Chair Professor of Geography in the Department of Geography, HKU and is also nicknamed "Dr Tree".


 
Professor David Lung (right), tour leader of Architecture Tour and Ms Wu Yin-Ching (left), tour leader of the HKU Literary Footsteps
 
HKU Heritage Trails - Architecture Tour led by Professor David Lung, Dean of the Faculty of Architecture
 
Professor David Lung introduces the architectural elements of Main Building, the oldest building on the HKU Main Campus, to the participants.
 
Professor David Lung introduces the architectural elements of Main Building, the oldest building on the HKU Main Campus, to the participants.
 
Professor David Lung introduces the architectural elements of Main Building, the oldest building on the HKU Main Campus, to the participants.



