[title]HKU to award four Honorary Degrees[/title]
[date]11 Mar 2008[/date]
 
Dr The Honourable David K P Li, Pro-Chancellor of The University of Hong Kong (HKU), conferred honorary degrees upon four outstanding individuals at the 177th Congregation today (March 11, 2008) at Loke Yew Hall, The University of Hong Kong.
Honorary Degrees are awarded to individuals in recognition of their distinguished service and commitment to the University, the community, and to academia. They are also conferred to those who have made valuable intellectual, social and cultural contributions to society and the world.
The honorary degree recipients are:
Doctor of Science honoris causa
Dr Chiang Chen, GBM, OBE
Professor Mak Tak-wah, OC, O Ont
Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, CBE, GBS, JP
Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, GBS, JP
------
Dr Chiang Chen is the Chairman &amp; Founder of Chen Hsong Holdings Limited and Chiang Chen Industrial Charity Foundation.
Dr Chiang is a native of Shandong province, China. He started his own modest machine shop in 1958. In 1966, he invented the first locally designed and manufactured 10-ounce in-line screw-type plastic injection moulding machine, which was awarded the New Product Award by the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong. Since then, the Chen Hsong Group has grown to be one of the largest manufacturers of plastic injection machines in the world.
To advance industrialisation in China, Dr Chiang donated all his shares in the Chen Hsong Group in 1990 to found the Chiang Chen Industrial Charity Foundation. Over the years, the Foundation has supported the training and research development of manufacturing industries in China. Dr Chiang was awarded an OBE in 1997 and the Grand Bauhinia Medal in 2005. He is also a Founding Honorary Director of the HKU Foundation.
In recognition of his contributions to building the industrial sector in Hong Kong and on the Mainland, and thus enriching the livelihood of people throughout the nation, HKU will confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.
------
Professor Mak Tak-wah is a Professor in the Departments of Medical Biophysics and Immunology at the University of Toronto, Director of the Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, and Senior Scientist at the Advanced Medical Discovery Institute/Ontario Cancer Institute.
Born in Southern China and raised in Hong Kong, Professor Mak studied biochemistry and biophysics at the University of Wisconsin. He earned his PhD in biochemistry from the University of Alberta, Edmonton. In 1984, he published his work on the cloning of T-cell receptor genes; by 2005, that article has been cited nearly 1,200 times. His role in advancing the use of genetically-altered mice in scientific study has led to important breakthroughs in immunology and understanding cancer at the cellular level. In 1993, he received support to establish the AMGEN Research Institute in Toronto.
Professor Mak received the Order of Canada (Officer) and the Order of Ontario, and has been elected a Foreign Associate of the National Academy of Sciences (USA), a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and the Royal Society of London. He has won international recognition including the Emil von Behring Prize, the King Faisal Prize for Medicine, the Gairdner Foundation International Award, the Sloan Prize of the General Motors Cancer Foundation, the Paul Ehrlich Prize and the Novartis Prize in Immunology.
In recognition of his pioneering work in immunology and cancer research, HKU will confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa.
------
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, former President of Lingnan University, is an Honorary Professor and Distinguished Fellow of the Centre of Asian Studies at the University of Hong Kong.
Professor Chen received his first and second degrees from HKU and his doctorate in economics from Oxford University. Starting as a graduate teaching assistant at HKU in 1967, he became the Director of the Centre of Asian Studies in 1980 and a Chair Professor in 1986. He was President of Lingnan University from 1995 to 2007, devoting himself to the building of a liberal arts university. He has held visiting appointments at Yale, Oxford, Stockholm Universities and the University of California (Davis Campus), and has served as a member of Time magazine's Board of Economists. Professor Chen is widely recognised as a pioneer in the study of Asia's newly industrialised economies.
He was a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong in 1991 and 1992, and a member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong from 1992 to 1997. He was a member of the Hong Kong SAR Basic Law Consultative Committee from 1985 to 1990. He served the Consumer Council for over 10 years and was its Chairman from 1991 to 1997, working particularly on the promotion of competition policy in Hong Kong. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1993, and was awarded a CBE in 1995 and the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2003.
In recognition of his invaluable contributions to the Hong Kong community and to academia, HKU will confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.
------
Mr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong has served as Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority since its establishment in April 1993.
Mr Yam received his Bachelor of Social Sciences degree, majoring in Economics and Statistics, from HKU in 1970. He started his civil service career in Hong Kong as a Statistician in 1971, and became an Economist in 1976. His involvement in monetary affairs in Hong Kong started when he was appointed Principal Assistant Secretary for Monetary Affairs in 1982. Mr Yam helped put together Hong Kong's Linked Exchange Rate system in 1983. He was subsequently appointed Deputy Secretary for Monetary Affairs in 1985 and Director of the Office of the Exchange Fund in 1991.
In 1995, Mr Yam was honoured with the Banker of the Year Award in Hong Kong by the Hong Kong Institute of Bankers. Euromoney also named him Central Banker of the Year in Asia in 1996 and Central Banker of the Year in 1997. In 1998, Mr Yam was named Central Bank Governor of the Year in Asia by Euromoney for his role in piloting Hong Kong through the Asian currency turmoil. He was appointed a Justice of Peace in 1985 and was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2001.
In recognition of his contributions to the financial sector of Hong Kong, HKU will confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa.
------
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Cherry Cheung, Senior Manager (Media), (tel: 2859 2606 or at cherry.cheung@hku.hk) or Ms Denise Wong, Manager (Media) (tel: 2859 2600 or at denise.wong@hku.hk) of The University of Hong Kong.

 
HKU confers honorary degrees upon four outstanding individuals at the 177th Congregation. From left are:- HKU Council Chairman Dr Victor Fung, Professor Mak Tak-wah, Dr Chiang Chen, HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr David Li, Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu, Dr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong, and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.
 
Dr Chiang Chen is conferred the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa by HKU.
 
Professor Mak Tak-wah is conferred the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa by HKU.
 
Professor Edward Chen Kwan-yiu is conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa by HKU.
 
Dr Joseph Yam Chi-kwong is conferred the degree of Doctor of Social Sciences honoris causa by HKU.
 
The Chiang's family share joy with Dr Chiang Chen for his award of the degree of Doctor of Science honoris causa by HKU.


