[title]HSBC/McKinsey Business Case Competition 2012 Final Results Announcement[/title]
[date]12 Jun 2012[/date]
 
The HSBC/McKinsey Business Case Competition 2012 is organised by The University of Hong Kong (HKU) Asia Case Research Centre (ACRC) and sponsored by the Hongkong Bank Foundation and McKinsey and Company. The final was successfully held on 7 June 2012 at The University of Hong Kong.  This year's competition was very intense with participation not only from the eight local universities but also eight top universities from Asia.  Winners were announced at the award presentation ceremony in the evening.
After four rounds of competition, the team from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) won the championship, with the team from the University of Hong Kong (HKU) claiming first runner-up.
Members of the winning team were offered internship opportunities at HSBC or McKinsey and Company, together with a cash award of HK$20,000; members of the first runner-up team were offered with a cash award of HK$10,000.
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Business and Economics, thanked the two sponsors for their continuous support in backing up a competition that aimed at nurturing future business leaders in the Asia Pacific region.
"Our conviction is that it is essential to connect business students with the real business world through experiential learning.  This intellectually stimulating business case competition is not just about applying business theories students have learnt in the classroom to solve real-life cases.  It also provides a valuable networking and sharing platform for elite business students from Asia to meet.  This annual competition will not be such a great success without the generous support from the Hongkong Bank Foundation and McKinsey and Company," said Professor Chang.
The non-local teams include Fudan University, Tsinghua University and Peking University of China PRC, National Chengchi University of Taiwan, Yonsei University of Korea, National University of Singapore, Shri Ram College of Commerce under the University of Delhi of India and Thammasat University of Thailand. 
The cases used at the competition are unpublished business cases developed by a team of professional researchers at the ACRC.  They are strategy and general management based cases dealing with some of the most relevant topics in today's business agenda including entrepreneurship, innovation, corporate sustainability and cultural diversity.
In the final round, each team was given two and a half hours to analyse a business strategy case after which they were given 20 minutes to present the case in front of the panel judges composed of Hong Kong business elites including Raymond Tan, President, Luen Thai International Group Limited, Tony Lee, Managing Director, International &amp; Greater China Corporate, Commercial Banking of HSBC and Bonnie Fong, Associate Principal of McKinsey &amp; Company. Presentations were followed by a Q&amp;A session in which the judging panel asked the participants questions on the proposed strategies, solutions and implementation.
For enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Helen Wong
Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4311 / + 852 6199 6988
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
Mr. Wong Shiu Kau
Centre Manager
Asia Case Research Centre
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 3962 1464
Email: info@acrc.org.hk
###
About Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
Founded in 2001 through the amalgamation of the School of Business and the School of Economics and Finance, the Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) offers quality degree programmes and executive training programmes that serve the needs of the business sector and the community.
As Asia's premier international business school, the Faculty has pioneered the International MBA Programme with Fudan University in Shanghai in 1998, and the EMBA Global Asia jointly offered with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS) in 2008.
Its MBA full time programme, offered in partnerships with CBS and LBS has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia's no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in 2010 and 2011.
The Faculty continues to attract top students from Hong Kong and beyond.  It admits the highest proportion of non-local undergraduate students amongst all the 10 Faculties. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University's top 10 programmes. 
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS).  Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).  For more information, please visit: www.fbe.hku.hk
About Asia Case Research Centre
The ACRC is one of the region's largest producers of business cases, which are distributed globally through its own website (http://www.acrc.org.hk/), Harvard Business School Publishing (www.hbsp.harvard.edu) and the European Case Clearing House (http://www.ecch.com/). Our mission is to advance learning and teaching in business education through the development of business cases that are timely, informative and capture the diversity of regional business context.

The champion team from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology won internships at HSBC and McKinsey and Company. The organiser, Professor Eric Chang, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Business and Economics (first right) and Professor Ali Farhoomand, Director of Asia Case Research Center, HKU Faculty of Business and Economics (second left), together with the final judges: Raymond Tan, President of Luen Thai International Group Limited (first left), Tony Lee, Managing Director, International &amp; Greater China Corporate, Commercial Banking of HSBC (second right) and Bonnie Fong, Associate Principal of McKinsey and Company (third right).

All 16 teams representing universities from seven countries and territories in Asia attended the HSBC / McKinsey Business Competition 2012 welcome dinner held at HSBC Main Building on 5 June 2012. The dinner was officiated by Anita Fung, Chief Executive Officer Hong Kong of HSBC (ninth right) and Professor Eric Chang, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Business and Economics (nine left).


