[title]Inauguration of the HKU Jockey Club Student Village III 
A celebration of the shared values of University education
[/title]
[date]09 Feb 2015[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held an inauguration ceremony for the four residential colleges in the Jockey Club Student Village III (賽馬會第三學生村) – Shun Hing College (信興學院), Chi Sun College (志新學院), Lap-Chee College (立之學院) and New College (日新學院) on February 7 (Saturday), which provides a total of 1,800 hostel places. 
The four residential colleges at Kennedy Town were made possible by donations totalling HKD450 million to support university developments.  They represent the shared values and educational goals between the university and its benefactors.These four residential colleges are a welcomed addition to the 15 residential halls, colleges and residences that had previously been in place to accommodate 4,500 students.
The President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson applauded all the benefactors. He said: “Throughout HKU’s history, it has been the benefactors’ magnanimous of generosity that has helped make it the great institution that it is today.” 
The Village was named after the Hong Kong Jockey Club in recognition of a donation of HK$108.25 million from the Club’s Charities Trust.  The University is most grateful to the Club’s Charities Trust for having established the first, second and now the third student village at HKU.  
Noting that the Hong Kong Jockey Club had contributed over HK$1.1 billion since 1980 towards the provision of around 20,000 hostel places at the eight UGC-funded institutions, Club Steward Michael Lee acknowledged the important role of hall culture in university education.“These residential colleges provide whole-person education for students, balancing the pursuit of academic knowledge with cultural and social interactions among fellow students on campus, as well as to help them integrate and gain an independent spirit.”
Shun Hing College is established by the Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund, a long-term partner of HKU for over three decades.  
Chi Sun College is supported by Simatelex Charitable Foundation. The Foundation also established the Suen Chi Sun Hall 10 years ago. 
New College is named in recognition of generous gift from the Tung Foundation.
The Chinese names of these three Colleges embody the virtues of trust and integrity, innovation and advancement, renewal and perfection – echoing the missions of the University.  
Lap-Chee College is named in honour of the immediate past Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and is a gift from Dr Patrick Poon, Kerry Holdings Limited, Azalea (1972) Endowment Fund, a group of alumni and friends, as well as the late Mr Yao Ling-Sun.  The naming was proposed by a group of alumni and friends who, while making a gift to support university developments, wish to also honour Professor Tsui and he graciously agreed to lend his name. 
Home to 1,800 students from international, Mainland and local students, the Colleges are intellectually and culturally diversified learning communities, with a balanced mix of undergraduates and postgraduates. Each Residential College has its own mission, motto and character, and its members will have life-long bonding after graduation. Students have a strong sense of identity and an emphasis on contribution to society, they are committed to community engagement – since 2012, students have initiated various projects for the promotion of town-gown relations and contributed to society local and beyond. They have launched service projects, started eco farming in the Long Valley fresh water wetland, and built bio-sand filters in Cambodia. They have also organised music and cultural festivals for the neighbourhood, started media projects led by Oscar-winining film director Ruby Yang on the documentaries for the Western District, as well as hosted basin meals for the elderly in the Colleges.
For more information on the Residential Colleges, please visit: www.jockeyv3.hku.hk.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy of the Communications and Public Affairs Office (tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk); or Ms Rainbow Wong (tel: 2219 4357, email: rainbow.wong@hku.hk) and Ms Polo Leung (tel: 2241 5677, email: pololeung@hku.hk) of the Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office.

Ms Cynthia Mong and Mr David Mong were presented with a souvenir by the Master of the Shun Hing College Professor Ying Chan (2nd left), HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson and two student representatives.

(From left) HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, Master of the New College Dr Sarah Liao and Professor SP Chow representing The Tung Foundation unveiled the plaque of the New College.



(From left) Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, Dr Patrick Poon, Master of the Lap-Chee College Professor CF Lee and Dr Lawrence Fung.

(From left) HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, Mrs Suen Chi-sun, Ms Esther Suen and Master of the Chi Sun College Professor Gabriel Leung.



Eye-dotting ceremony by HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Peter Mathieson (right) and Steward of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Mr Michael Lee (2nd right).

Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Mr Michael Lee (middle) was presented with a souvenir by HKU Council Chairman Dr Leong Che-hung (3rd left) and HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson (3rd right) and student representatives.



(From left) HKU Council Chairman Dr Leong Che-hung, HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson and Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Mr Michael Lee unveiled the plaque of the Jockey Club Student Village III.

(From left) Master of the Chi Sun College Professor Gabriel Leung, Master of the Lap-Chee College Professor CF Lee, Master of the New College Dr Sarah Liao and Master of the Shun Hing College Professor Ying Chan took a group photo with Steward of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Dr Christopher Cheng, HKU President &amp; Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, Stewards of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Mr Michael Lee and Mr Martin Liao in front of the Village Stone.


