[title]Vice-Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang attends The University of Hong Kong Centenary Ceremony[/title]
[date]18 Aug 2011[/date]
 
Vice-Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council today (Aug 18) visited the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and attended the University of Hong Kong Centenary Ceremony.
The Vice-Premier officiated at the unveiling of plaques ceremony of a medical research centre and a state key laboratory (partner laboratory) of HKU, and announced the allocation of funding to subsidizing the studies, exchanges and scientific research of HKU students and academic staff on the mainland.
The ceremony was held in Loke Yew Hall and officiated by the Chancellor, Dr the Hon Donald Tsang. A total of 600 staff, students, alumni and guests attended the ceremony. Among the guests were presidents from over 20 local, mainland and overseas universities.
"Today, HKU has topped the charts of international higher education institutes. This is an honour for both Hong Kong and China," said Vice-Premier Li at the ceremony.
"In a century full of challenges, HKU has nurtured over 130,000 graduates and talents with great vision and virtue, who are dedicated to making developments in science and serving the community. These alumni have made significant contributions to the prosperity of Hong Kong and the rise of China, and also to the advancement of civilization," the Vice-Premier remarked.
To promote exchange activities between Hong Kong and the Mainland in the area of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Science and Technology has supported the establishment of the State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases (Partner Laboratory at the HKU - Shenzhen Branch).
Additionally, HKU and the Chinese Academy of Sciences Guangzhou Institute of Biomedicine and Health, have also jointly established the Hong Kong - Guangdong Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Research Centre.
The Vice-Premier and Dr the Hon Donald Tsang officiated at the plaque unveiling ceremony of the laboratories.
To enhance educational exchange activities between the mainland and Hong Kong, Vice-Premier Li announced that starting from next year, the relevant department of the central government will allocate funds that will subsidise the studies, exchanges and scientific research of 1,000 HKU students and academic staff on the mainland each year.
To celebrate the University's Centenary, the Vice-Premier also gave a precious set of Chinese Rare Book Facsimile Reprints to the University.
Also attending the ceremony was another Guest of Honour Lord David Wilson, Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen. In the speech, he recalled his days when he studied at HKU 50 years ago. "Hong Kong University has a pool of outstanding alumni who will, I am sure, continue to support it. It has high quality students here now, both from Hong Kong and elsewhere. They are fortunate to be here. Certainly I count myself as fortunate to have studied here and to be a member of the University family as the holder of an Honorary Degree."
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui thanked the Vice-Premier and the audience for attending the Centenary Ceremony.
Reflecting on the University's history, Professor Tsui said that it is in the context of wisdom and virtue that HKU celebrates its centenary, noting that: "The dimensions of ‘knowledge, heritage and service' represent the missions of our multiple roles: to be a knowledge hub for learning and research, a cultural crossroads where East meets West and the past illuminates the future, and a service platform where the University nurtures global citizens and is itself nurtured by the community."
"We think globally, and position ourselves in the national context and the international arena.  It will be our vision for excellence, our aspiration for freedom, our devotion to student learning and, our commitment to society that will guide us through the next 100 years," He said.
Apart from attending the ceremony, the Vice-Premier also met with different members of the HKU community. Among them were Professor Jao Tsung-I, renowned contemporary sinologist, 30 HKU students from various faculties and 40 overseas and local university presidents, distinguished scholars and academicians. The Vice-Premier also learned about the history of HKU, and its development and research achievements when he toured the HKU Centenary Exhibition.
The year 2011 marks the 100th anniversary of HKU. A series of celebration activities, covering the three areas of ‘Knowledge, Heritage and Service', have been planned for the University Family and the members of the public. The celebration was officially launched in January 2011 and will continue for two years, ending in late 2012. The many planned activities will include distinguished lectures, international conferences, publications of the University's history, community services and gatherings for alumni and friends. For activities details, please visit http://100.hku.hk/ .
For the speech of Lord David Wilson, please view at http://www.hku.hk/cpaoesite/press/110818_wilson.pdf
For the speech of Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, please view at http://www.hku.hk/cpaoesite/press/110818_vc.pdf
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) (Tel: 2859 2606/Email: pychoy@hku.hk).


 
To celebrate the University’s Centenary, the Vice-Premier gave the Chinese Rare Books Reprints to HKU. A plaque was presented to Professor Lap-Chee Tsui during the ceremony.
 
Vice-Premier Li Keqiang chats with HKU students.
 
Lord David Wilson, Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen, addresses the ceremony.
 
The Vice-Premier tours the exhibition of HKU history.
 
The Vice-Premier Li Keqiang attends the University of Hong Kong Centenary Ceremony.
 
The Vice-Premier tours the exhibition of HKU history.
 
The Vice-Premier and Dr the Hon Donald Tsang Yam Kuen, Chancellor of HKU, officiated at the unveiling of plaques ceremony
 
The Vice-Premier Li Keqiang (right) meets with Professor Jao Tsung-I (second from left), renowned contemporary sinologist.
 
600 HKU staff, students, alumni and guests attend the Centenary Ceremony.
 
A group photo of the Vice-Premier (first row, fifth from left) and presidents from local and overseas universities, distinguished scholars and academicians.



