[title]HKU Japanese Society holds mini Model UN discussion on the future of nuclear energy in East Asia[/title]
[date]11 May 2014[/date]
 

Mini Model UN participants (First from the left:  Catherine Tang and Fifth from the left:  Emily Kwan)
The Japanese Society, A.A.H.K.U.S.U., of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) organised a mini Model UN on April 24, 2014 about the future of nuclear energy in East Asia, so as to raise the awareness of nuclear energy related issues and to provide students a chance to voice out their opinions.
The conference was organized by HKU first-year Science student Miss Emily Kwan, as part of the activities in the Japan Month at HKU 2014.
“Knowing how hard the people in Fukushima have worked to recover from the damage caused by the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in the devastating earthquake and subsequent tsunamis occurred three years ago in Japan, I am motivated to organize this conference so as to raise the awareness in the HKU community,” said Emily.
Students from India, Italy, Japan, Mainland China and Hong Kong in the University gathered together in the conference, playing the role of delegates from five regions, China, Japan, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation and Taiwan. Students were representing countries and regions that are different from their own nationalities. For example, students from Italy were representing Japan and students from India and Japan were representing China.
Various issues were discussed in the mini Model UN, including environmental concerns arise while developing nuclear plants, how countries in East Asia can cooperate to achieve nuclear safety, sets of rules for dealing with problems arose from nuclear failure, how countries and regions should respond when a nuclear failure occurs, etc. Participants have also discussed the need for more international cooperation and exchange of information, and the international mechanism to monitor situation in each power plants.
“I have never thought of separating the development of safety management of nuclear plants and the development of the nuclear plant itself before, however after the mini Model UN, it seems to me that it is a feasible and sensible suggestion,” said Catherine Tang, a first year medical student. The new ideas and areas that were explored in the conference have caught the attention of several audience and they have shown interests in participating in conferences like so in the future.
The Japan Month at HKU 2014 was held from April 7 to May 2.
For more details about the mini Model UN, please contact Miss Emily Kwan at: tel: 97189659 email: emilyk@connect.hku.hk.


