[title]“Health Care Hero” – HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui named to 2012 Canadian Medical Hall of Fame[/title]
[date]20 Oct 2011[/date]
 
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has been made a laureate of the 2012 Canadian Medical Hall of Fame for his contributions in medical research for better health in Canada and the world.
The award celebrates those "whose extraordinary contributions have made the world a better place", according to the Hall of Fame announcement.
Professor Tsui has been honoured for his discovery of the cystic fibrosis gene, which is described as "the most significant breakthrough in human genetics in 50 years." He has "made extraordinary contributions to science through his discoveries and is a leader in developing the field of genomics in Canada and throughout the world."
On receiving the award, Professor Tsui said："I feel very honoured to have been recognized by the Hall of Fame for my work, but am also deeply humbled to be included among so many revered and respected names in Canadian medical history."
The Canadian Medical Hall of Fame was established in 1994 and is the only national Hall of Fame in the world dedicated to celebrating medical heroes. Apart from Professor Tsui, six other laureates have been named today, including Dr. John James Rickard (J.J.R.) Macleod (1876-1935), Terry Fox (1958-1981), Dr. Armand Frappier (1904-1991), Dr. Peter T. Macklem (1931-2011), Dr. John Dirks and Dr. F. Clarke Fraser.  They will join the ranks of 88 laureates who have been honoured since 1994.
"These individuals have truly made a difference in the lives of Canadians, and indeed, people around the world. They have blazed trails, inspired others to follow, and extended the boundaries of medical knowledge and health care," said Dr. Cecil Rorabeck, Board Chair of the Hall of Fame. "We are in their debt, and we honour them for their great service to humankind."
An Induction Ceremony will be held in Toronto on 21 March 2012.
For more details, please visit the Canadian Medical Hall of Fame website at: http://www.cdnmedhall.org/. The biographies of Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and other 2012 inductees are available at: http://www.cdnmedhall.org/induction.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
