[title]"Re-engineering Regenerative Medicine" Symposium at HKU signifies a significant step towards Hong Kong as an emerging hub for stem cell research in China and Asia[/title]
[date]10 Nov 2011[/date]
 
Dedicated to foster stem cell research in Hong Kong and worldwide, the Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Consortium (SCRMC) of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine proudly presents the "Re-engineering Regenerative Medicine" Symposium today, with an attendance of over 500 outstanding scholars, scientists and physicians from over 15 countries such as Singapore, Japan, Korea, US, Sweden, UK and China.
The meeting, with sponsorships from the Innovative Technology Commission (ITC) of the HKSAR and the Croucher's Foundation, is hosted by SCRMC and the University of Hong Kong, jointly with Days of Molecular Medicine Global Foundation, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)/Science Translational Medicine, Karolinska Institutet and Fondation IPSEN. Brilliant minds of this field gathered at the meeting to explore the interface between tissue engineering and stem cell biology, and how to overcome barriers in translating new research advances in these fields into tangible clinical benefits for repairing and replacing aging and diseased tissues. A broad range of topics in regenerative medicine will be covered and discussed in the meeting, including new strategies for engineering liver, skin and corneal tissues; regeneration in the nervous system; stem cell therapies for treating heart disease; and the design of better biomaterials for engineering bone, cartilage and muscle. Professor Ronald LI, S.Y. and H.Y. Cheng Professor in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Director of SCRMC acknowledged the effort made by the academics and government to boost the growth of this area of research. "With supports from the universities, the Research Grants Council and the ITC, and importantly, our professors and trainees, we in Hong Kong have made the first but very important big leap in this revolutionary field. Hong Kong is presenting to the world over 50 new stem cell projects, conducted by over 100 of our local investigators. This represents almost half of all the new exciting projects at this conference "
Launched in 2010, SCRMC has a mission to establish an internationally renowned academic programme in regenerative medicine that will operate as a stem cell hub for attracting regional and foreign talents, and to uniquely serve as a bridge between China and Western countries. By securing programmatic collaborations with various distinguished institutions including Harvard University and Karolinska Institutet, SCRMC further extends its research network to both east and west. Staff and student exchange, as well as collaborative research will be closely held and organised between the counterparts to achieve synergistic effects.
In 2009, the HKSAR government set up a Research Endowment Fund of HK$18 billion to reaffirm its continued support for research and development. HK$4 billion of this fund has been deployed to establish the Theme-Based Research Scheme (TBRS) for financing focused research efforts of strategic importance for the long-term development of Hong Kong and China. HKU's SCRMC took the lead to present to the HKSAR the grand challenge topic of "Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine". After a series of selection processes, Stem Cell has been chosen as one of the three major topics under the health theme to receive financial support from TBRS. In July 2011, two stem cell projects led by SCRMC investigators have received HK$100 million during the first exercise.
Recently, SCRMC has received from State Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China (PRC) the recognition of establishing the Hong Kong - Guangdong Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Research Centre. The new Centre's charge is to make basic scientific discoveries and effectively translate into applications that benefit patients, the community and the development of a knowledge-based economy in Hong Kong, Pearl River Delta and the Greater China. As a next step, SCRMC of HKU signed an institutional agreement with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou Institute of Biomedicine and Health to jointly run this new Centre. "All these reflect that both the HKSAR and Central governments recognise the importance and prospect of the research area, and their commitment for sustained developments. These are in line with the 12th 5-year plan, with Stem Cell listed as one of the strategic areas to develop." Professor Ronald Li said.
To further agglomerate ideas, talents and efforts in boosting the development of stem cell and regenerative medicine in the territory, HKU also initiates to set up the Hong Kong Stem Cell Society. The Society aims to foster the advancement, training and public education of stem cell research and its applications. It also aims to provide a platform to scientists, clinicians and the general public in Hong Kong for exchanging ideas and resources and information related to stem cells. Academics, professionals and members of the general public are all welcome to join the Society.
The "Re-engineering Regenerative Medicine" Symposium will continue on November 11-12, 2011. For more details, please visit the website


 
Professor Paul Tam Kwong-hang, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Research), The University of Hong Kong, signed an institutional agreement on behalf of Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Consortium with Mr. Huang Jian-chong, Deputy Director General of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou Institute of Biomedicine and Health to jointly run this new Centre
 
Professor Paul Tam Kwong-hang, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Research), The University of Hong Kong, is very delighted to have this chance for scholars and guests from over 15 countries to come and have information exchange on stem cell research.
 
Professor Ronald Li, S.Y. and H.Y. Cheng Professor in Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Director of Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Consortium, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, With supports from the universities, the Research Grants Council and the ITC, and importantly, our professors and trainees, we in Hong Kong have made the first but very important big leap in this revolutionary field.


