[title]HKU’s Faculty of Business and Econmics Sets Up Entrance Scholarship for JUPAS Applicants[/title]
[date]24 Jun 2010[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Business and Economics is pleased to announce that entrance scholarships will be offered to "Joint University Programmes Admissions System" (JUPAS) applicants who obtained outstanding results from the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE). Eligible applicants admitted to the Faculty can be awarded up to HK$40,000 scholarship for one year. The provision of scholarships exemplifies the Faculty's continuous commitment to developing and training of promising business and community leaders.
These scholarships will be offered to JUPAS applicants who are admitted to specified programmes below in 2010, on top of the HKU Foundation Scholarship for Outstanding Students:
Bachelor of Economics, Bachelor of Economics and Finance [JUPAS Code: 6767]
Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting and Finance [JUPAS Code: 6781]
Bachelor of Business Administration (Information Systems) [JUPAS Code: 6793]
Bachelor of Science (Quantitative Finance) [JUPAS Code: 6884]

 Conditions for Award

Scholarship Amount  

 Grade A in at least 3 A-Level subjects
 HK$40,000

 Grade A in at least 2 A-Level subjects and 1 AS-Level
subject
 HK$20,000

 Grade A in at least 2 A-Level subjects
 HK$10,000

Note:
1. Two Advanced Supplementary Level (AS) subjects are equivalent to one Advanced Level (AL) subject.
2. AS Use of English and AS Chinese Language and Culture can be counted towards the above requirements.
All eligible students will be awarded the scholarships automatically once admitted to the above programmes. Students will be informed by our Faculty Office before November 2010.
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Yvonne Mak
Director
Communications and Corporate Relations
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4488
Email: yslmak@hku.hk 
 
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is Hong Kong's first and foremost university, with a history of nearly 100 years. Our alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government.
HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics offers a full range of Bachelors and Masters degree programmes plus PhD degree and non-degree open enrollment and customized Executive Education programmes.
Bachelor's degree programmes attract top students from Hong Kong and the region, with four ranking among HKU's top ten programmes in terms of average JUPAS entry scores (2009). More than 30% of HKU's elite students admitted via the "Early Admissions Scheme" (2009) choose the Faculty's programmes.
The EMBA-Global Asia, jointly offered by Columbia Business School, London Business School and HKU Business School, is an expansion of the flagship EMBA-Global programme, which was ranked first in the world by the Financial Times in 2008. 
The full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with London Business School and Columbia Business School, has a strong Asia and China focus. Its unique features provide a rich and balanced education to students with local knowledge and global exposure.
The International MBA offered in collaboration with Fudan University in Shanghai has twice been ranked "best of its kind" in Mainland China by the Academic Degrees Committee of the China State Council.
While the Master of Economics programme has modeled its Hong Kong success with a similar programme launched in Shenzhen in collaboration with Peking University in 2005. Today, the Master of Finance programme in Shenzhen is offered in conjunction with either the Master of Economics or Master of Management programme of Peking University to bring together the rigorous training in finance and in economics/management of the two institutions.
The research excellence has enabled HKU to assume the position of the most successful university in Hong Kong in terms of securing competitive research funding from the Research Grants Council (RGC).
For more information, please visit: http://www.fbe.hku.hk
