[title]Tobacco Control Office funded “Youth Quitline” established by HKU to expand services for youth quitters[/title]
[date]07 Jan 2014[/date]
 
The youth-oriented smoking cessation hotline “Youth Quitline”, jointly established by the Smoking Cessation Research Team of School of Nursing, School of Public Health of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and the Department of Social Work &amp; Social Administration of HKU and the Hong Kong Council on Smoking and Health, has been granted the second phase funding by Tobacco Control Office of the Department of Health.  The research team will continue to provide telephone smoking cessation counselling service to youth smokers, expanding the services of “Youth Quitline” to reach more youth smokers, and to promote smoking cessation through SMS, web media, peer counsellors training and outreach service enhancement, with a view to reducing the smoking prevalence and contributing to a smoke-free Hong Kong.
“Youth Quitline” has received over 5,000 telephone inquiries and provided smoking cessation counselling for 1,257 (up till September, 2013) youth smokers over the past eight years.  While continuing to provide telephone smoking cessation counselling for youth smokers, the service of the “Youth Quitline” will be further enhanced to reach the youth smokers through the applications of the mobile phone, such as WhatsApp.  It will also provide training to tertiary students as peer smoking cessation counsellors who will reach out to schools and community organisations for raising awareness of smoking cessation among youth smokers, followed by the arrangement of telephone smoking cessation counselling.
Professor Lam Tai-hing, Sir Robert Kotewall Professor in Public Health and Chair Professor of School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU pointed out that the main reasons for young people to quit smoking are to lead a healthy life and save money.  He believes that an increase in tobacco tax will help motivate more youth smokers to quit smoking.
Dr Li Ho-cheung William, Project Director of the “Youth Quitline” and Assistant Professor of School of Nursing of HKU, stated that it was quite remarkable that 21.9% of participants quitted smoking after receiving services of the “Youth Quitline”.  He hopes that the second phase of the project can reach out to more young smokers and help them quit smoking. 
About “Youth Quitline” 5111 4333
The Smoking Cessation Research Team of School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKU), in collaboration with the School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, the Department of Social Work &amp; Social Administration of HKU and the Hong Kong Council on Smoking and Health, established the first youth-oriented smoking cessation hotline “Youth Quitline” in 2005.  “Youth Quitline” aims to raise the awareness of smoking cessation service among youth smokers in Hong Kong and to provide FREE of CHARGE smoking cessation quitline service to them.  It also aims to provide training to teenagers as peer smoking cessation counsellors.  All these will be done together with vigorous research and evaluation to improve the quitline service.  The quitline targets on youth smokers aged 25 or below and it operates from 5 pm to 9 pm on weekdays and from 2 pm to 8 pm over weekends.  Voice mails are available during non-operating hours and public holidays.  All youth are welcome to call the hotline and join the smoking cessation programme.

(From Left to Right)
Chris, peer smoking cessation counsellor of “Youth Quitline”, Year four  student of School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Dr Li Ho-cheung William, Project Director of the Youth Quitline and Assistant Professor of School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Professor Agnes Tiwari Fung-yee, Professor and Head of School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Dr Christine Wong Wang, Head of Tobacco Control Office, Department of Health
Professor Sophia Chan Siu-chee, JP, Under Secretary for Food and Health
Ms Lisa Lau Man-man, BBS, MH, JP, Chairman of Hong Kong Council on Smoking and Health
Professor Lam Tai-hing, BBS, JP, Sir Robert Kotewall Professor in Public Health, Chair Professor of School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU
Eric, who has joined the “Youth Quitline” services and quitted smoking

All guests, peer smoking cessation counsellors and user of HKU youth-oriented smoking cessation hotline “Youth Quitline” took a group photo after attending the Phase II Launching Ceremony.



Professor Sophia Chan Siu-chee, JP, Under Secretary for Food and Health officiated in the HKU youth-oriented smoking cessation hotline “Youth Quitline” Phase II Launching Ceremony.  She mentions that the “Youth Quitline” service is important to help the youth to quit smoking as well as to protect public health.

Professor Lam Tai-hing, Sir Robert Kotewall Professor in Public Health and Chair Professor of School of Public Health of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU  believes that an increase in tobacco tax will help motivate more youth smokers to quit smoking.



Dr Li Ho-cheung William, Project Director of the “Youth Quitline” and Assistant Professor of School of Nursing of HKU hopes that the second phase of the project can reach out to more young smokers and help them quit smoking.


