[title]HKU scientists receive State Science and Technology Awards[/title]
[date]14 Jan 2011[/date]
 
Five scientists with the Faculty of Engineering and Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) were honoured second-class awards at the 2010 State Science and Technology Awards (SSTAs) as announced by the National Office of Science and Technology Awards in Beijing today (January 14). 
Professor Wang Wenping, Professor Li Yuguo and Adjunct Associate Professor Dr Valiant Cheung of the Faculty of Engineering received a second-class State Scientific and Technological Progress Award (SSTPA) as team members of research project "Buoyant jets in complex environments - theory, innovative technology and application", led by Professor Joseph Lee, Vice-President of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. Professor Lee was former Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU and is currently HKU's Redmond Chair of Civil Engineering. This award winning project from Hong Kong is based on environmental hydraulics and engineering research funded by the Croucher Foundation, the Hong Kong Research Grants Council and the Innovation and Technology Commission. The jet theory and computer models developed have been effectively applied to projects in Hong Kong with significant social benefits. 
Meanwhile, Dr. Zhou Zhongjun, Associate Professor of the Department of Biochemistry, HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine，received a second-class State Scientific and Technological Progress Award (SSTPA) with his involvement in the mainland nominated project on the "Study on the molecular mechanisms modulating aging as well as the establishment and application of individual aging-evaluating systems". 
Professor Guan Xin-Yuan, Professor of the Department of Clinical Oncology, HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine，received a second-class State Natural Science Award (SNSA) with his involvement in another mainland nominated project "The identification and significance of the novel mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis". 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was pleased with the awards won by HKU colleagues, which he said were well-deserved recognition for their contributions to academia and research. 
"As a research-led comprehensive university, HKU must count on the strength and capacity of our researchers and professors. It is pleasing to see the efforts of our scientists being well recognized. Their dedication in research and accomplishments have helped to illustrate the University's strength and commitment to continue to excel to the benefit of the communities in Hong Kong, China, the region and beyond." 
The State Science and Technology Awards are highly prestigious awards in the Mainland's science and technology fields organized by the State Council of the People's Republic of China. They aim to reward citizens and organisations that have made outstanding contributions to scientific and technological progress. In 2010, more than 680 nominated entries were received for the SSTPA, and more than 120 entries received for the SNSA. 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600  email: melwkwan@hku.hk

