[title]HKU main website hku.hk wins top prize and named the "Most Liked .hk Website" in Best .hk Website Awards [/title]
[date]21 Apr 2016[/date]
 


HKU Director of Communications Ms Katherine Ma receives the Gold Award and the Most Liked .hk Website Award from Mr Simon Yeung, Group Publisher of Computerworld Hong Kong


The main website of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) hku.hk won the “Gold Award” and was named the "Most Liked .hk Website" in the “Best .hk Website Awards 2015” (“Corporate Group” in “Non-commercial Stream”), organised by the Hong Kong Internet Registration Corporation Limited (HKIRC). An award presentation ceremony was held today (April 21).
All websites under the “.hk” domain names had been invited to participate in the Best .hk Website Awards. The Awards are divided into four streams: Commercial, Non-commercial (such as NGOs and schools), Government Departments and “LegCo Members. There were a total of 504 entries this year.

Award winning hku.hk
HKU won the top prize “Gold Award” in the Corporate Group of the Non-commercial stream. It has been the first university being honoured this top prize since the establishment of the Awards in 2009. The "Most Liked .hk Website Award" is granted to website obtaining the highest number of votes in each stream in an online public voting campaign.
Representing the panel of judges, Mr Simon Yeung, Group Publisher of Computerworld Hong Kong, praised hku.hk’s unique homepage design – including its innovative “flip boards” that scroll horizontally rather than vertically, and its “interactive and organic touch-screen” interface designed specifically for smartphones and tablets. The judges were very impressed by the rich content provided and speedy daily updates of the site.

HKU Director of Communications Ms. Katherine Ma said: “As the webmaster of hku.hk, the Communications and Public Affairs Office is certainly gratified with these results, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee and Working Group on the Revamp of the HKU Website for their contributions, the hundreds of Faculties, Departments, Centres and Units which provide content to the HKU website literally around the clock to make hku.hk informative, relevant and engaging.”
“In the digital age, the University’s website is a prime tool and portal for reaching our global audience: students, colleagues, alumni, researchers, collaborators, supporters and friends. Together, I am sure we can make hku.hk an even more powerful and effective tool of engagement,” Ms Ma remarked.
About the Awards
The HKIRC aims to promote outstanding “.hk” websites, and the “Best .hk Website Awards” competition recognises the achievements of outstanding “.hk” websites from different sectors. The Awards are divided into four streams, including “Commercial”, “Non-commercial” (such as NGOs and schools), “Government Departments” and “LegCo Members”.
The contest assesses websites in terms of design and functionality, engagement, use of social media and web accessibility. Winners of respective streams should demonstrate to the panel the competitive advantages of their websites in their industry, their role in helping their company or organization achieve service excellence and overall benefits for the online community.
The previous gold winners included Radio Television Hong Kong, Hong Kong Observatory, The Kowloon Motor Bus Co. (1933) Ltd, MTR Corporation Ltd, The Hong Kong Society for the Aged, to name a few.
“Gold Award” is the highest accolade in each stream.
"Most Liked .hk Website Award" is granted to website obtaining the highest number of votes in each stream in an online public voting campaign.
For details about the Awards, please refer to the website at: http://bestwebsite.hk/en/
About HKIRC
Hong Kong Internet Registration Corporation Limited (HKIRC) is a non-profit-making and non-statutory corporation designated by the HKSAR Government to administer the registration of Internet domain names under .hk and .香港country-code top level domains. HKIRC provides registration services through its registrars for domain names ending with .com.hk, .org.hk, .gov.hk, .edu.hk, .net.hk, .idv.hk, 公司.香港, .組織.香港, .政府.香港, .教育.香港, .網絡.香港, .個人.香港, .hk and .香港.

hku.hk wins Gold Award and the Most Liked .hk Website

About hku.hk
The hku.hk is a virtual portal literally for anyone in the world: not only for prospective and current students, but also for teachers, researchers, alumni, collaborating partners outside of Hong Kong etc., to get to know the University’s vision, aspirations and initiatives. It brings out the key strengths of HKU, highlighting the University’s research and teaching excellence, global engagement and its commitment to knowledge exchange.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media), Tel: 2859 2600/Email: melwkwan@hku.hk, Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU.


