[title]New face of the oldest university in Hong Kong: Opening of the HKU Centennial Campus Public Exhibition[/title]
[date]07 Aug 2008[/date]
 
In line with HKU's vision of becoming a world-class university, and to prepare for the new four-year undergraduate curriculum, HKU is developing the Centennial Campus.  The detailed design of the campus was unveiled to the general public at the Pacific Place in Admiralty yesterday. 
To be held until August 10, 2008, the exhibition will allow visitors to experience the history of HKU through the past photos and videos at the ‘time-tunnel'. A variety of multi-media tools will be used to demonstrate the futuristic design of the new campus, including video, models, interactive games and exhibition panels.  To be completed in 2011/2012, the Centennial Campus will provide a new learning experience of the 21st Century to students through the design of state-of-the-art teaching and learning spaces, greening and sustainability features. 
"Campus development is nothing new to Hong Kong, and to the rest of the world. Promoting a new campus to the general public at a shopping mall, however, is unusual. This in fact demonstrates our belief in an open and respected process in engaging our stakeholders." said Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations) of External Relations Office and spokesperson of the project.
"The Centennial Campus will transform the whole of HKU. The new three academic buildings will house the Faculties of Arts, Social Sciences and Law.  Learning Commons, a 6,000-square metres of innovative and interactive learning space, will bring about new learning experience for students. Besides learning and research facilities, greening, heritage protection and sustainability features will be incorporated into the design of the new campus." added Mr Ho.
In addition to Pacific Place, the exhibition will be held in Olympian City 2 (September 19 to 22), Harbour City (October 27 to 29), and the Hong Kong Central Library (November 26 to 28). 
For media enquiries, please contact Mr. Henry Ho (Tel: 2857-8555/9188-0219) of the External Relations Office, The University of Hong Kong 

