[title]HKU sees a record 2,300-strong team in the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon[/title]
[date]28 Feb 2010[/date]
 


A record number of nearly 2,300 students, staff, alumni and their families joined the Marathon Team of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to participate in the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon today (February 28).  The team has also won the Most Supportive Group Award of the Marathon for the fifth consecutive year. HKU alumna Dr. Angela Leung Fung Ming, MBBS 1983, won the Champion in the Master 2 category of the 10 Km Challenge(Women). 
Since 2006, over 4,600 members of the HKU Family have joined the HKU Marathon Team to run in the Marathon. This year, a strong Support Team of 150 students, alumni and relatives of HKU Marathon Team had been formed to lead the cheering and help with team logistics. 
Professor Paul Cheung, Chair of the Organising Committee of HKU Marathon Team was happy to see more higher education institutions forming their own teams to join the race this year. 
"They have added to the joy of the event. Many HKU team members have adopted a healthier and positive life style in jogging since joining the race." He added. 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui represented HKU in the Leaders Cup, He ran with HKU Council Member, Hong Kong Standard Chartered Bank Executive Director &amp; Chief Executive Officer Mr Ben Hung and other HKU alumni to accompany HKU Team members to the final destiny at the Victoria Park. 
For photos of the HKU Marathon Team, please go to http://www.marathon.hku.hk/
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk . 

 


Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui (Right), Mr Jack So, Chairman of Hong Kong Trade Development Council (Left)and champion of 10Km Challenge Women’s Master 2, Dr Angela Leung
 
HKU Court Member, Mr. David Mong, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and HKU Cheering Team members after he completed the full Marathon

Mr. Benjamin Hung, HKU Council Member and Executive Director &amp; Chief Executive Officer of the Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited withVice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU alumni and Cheering Team
 
 
 
 
