[title]New University Chair Honours Dr. Joseph Needham and Dr. Philip Mao[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2012[/date]
 



(Left to right) Dr Peter L Lee, Deputy Chairman of East Asian History of Science Foundation Hong Kong; Dr David Li Kwok-Po, Chairman of East Asian History of Science Foundation Hong Kong and Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui

The University of Hong Kong and the East Asian History of Science Foundation Hong Kong (EAHSF HK) are pleased to announce the signing of a formal agreement to establish a permanently endowed chair at the University, the "Joseph Needham - Philip Mao Professorship in Chinese History, Science and Civilization".
The endowed chair will honour the late Dr. Joseph Needham, the world renowned scholar and author of the monumental work "Science and Civilization of China", and the late Dr Philip W.C. Mao, the founding chairman of EAHSF HK, which was established to further Dr. Needham's work and legacy.
The University of Hong Kong and EAHSF HK are also pleased to announce the appointment of Professor Angela Leung Ki Che, Director and Chair Professor of the Hong Kong Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences, as the first person to hold the endowed chair.
Professor Leung is uniquely suited to take up this position, which carries an annual research and conference grant to support future study in the history of science and civilisation in East and Southeast Asia. Professor Leung will organise an inaugural conference programme later this year.
On this happy occasion, Professor Roel Sterckx, the Joseph Needham Professor of Chinese History, Science and Civilisation at the University of Cambridge, will present a public lecture at the University of Hong Kong on 17 February, 2012.
EAHSF HK was originally registered as a Trust in Hong Kong in 1979 (re-registered as a Foundation in 1981) by a group of friends of Dr. Needham to raise funds to support his continued scholarly endeavours, following his retirement in 1976 as Master of Gonville &amp; Caius College, Cambridge.
Dr. Philip Mao was a key leader in transforming EAHSF HK into a dynamic fundraising vehicle, and led campaigns that supported the construction of the Needham Research Institute (NRI) at Cambridge, the sponsoring of scholars from China to the NRI, and the support of PhD students at the University of Cambridge.
Dr. Mao, who passed away in 2003, was a past president of the Hong Kong Medical Association and a distinguished surgeon. His bequest provided the impetus for the establishment of the permanent Joseph Needham Professor of Chinese History, Science and Civilization at the University of Cambridge.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 
