[title]HKU Chemistry Professor Vivian Yam Wing-wah honoured Laureate of the L’Oréal-UNESCO Women in Science Awards 2011[/title]
[date]10 Nov 2010[/date]
 
Professor Vivian Yam Wing-wah, Philip Wong Wilson Wong Professor in Chemistry and Energy, and Chair of Chemistry of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), was honoured as Laureate of the 13th L'Oréal-UNESCO Women in Science Awards 2011 for her contributions in light-emitting materials and innovative ways of capturing solar energy.
Each year, five outstanding women scientists - one per continent - are honoured for the contributions of their research, the strength of their commitments and their impact on society. Professor Yam is the laureate of the Asia/ Pacific region.
Professor Yam felt deeply privileged and greatly honoured for receiving the award.
"It shows that Hong Kong has the strength and gets talents in scientific research and development," said Professor Yam, adding that she herself is a typical Hong Kong educated and groomed scientist.
Professor Yam obtained her Bachelor and PhD degrees from HKU in 1985 and 1988 respectively. She then joined HKU's Department of Chemistry in 1990, and has been dedicated in teaching and research at the University since then.
She was thankful to the community and donors like Dr Philip Wong and Dr Wilson Wong, and HKU and the government for their wide support given to scientific research. She urged young scientists to follow their interests, and be passionate and dedicated in their professions.
 "I firmly believe that regardless of one's gender, as long as one has the passion, dedication and determination to pursue research wholeheartedly, one can excel and produce results of world-class quality."
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was delighted that Professor Yam won the award, which he said was a well deserved recognition for her tremendous contributions to academia and research.
"As a research-led comprehensive university, HKU must count on the strength and capacity of our researchers and professors. It is pleasing to see Professor Yam's accomplishment has been recognised by her peers around the world, and this has in turn helped to illustrate the University's vision and commitment to world-class research."
Professor Yam's main area of research is in inorganic / organometallic syntheses and photochemistry related to luminescence and solar energy conversion. The major focus is on the molecular design and synthesis of novel inorganic and organometallic metal complexes that may find potential applications as functional metal-based molecular materials. Professor Yam's seminal works on luminescent polynuclear metal complexes and clusters, and light-emitting carbon-rich organometallics have gained her international recognition.
More than 1,000 high-level scientists from around the world were involved in the nomination of the Awards' candidates, who come from five continents.
The International Awards Jury, comprised of 16 eminent members of the scientific community, and presided by Professor Ahmed Zewail, recipient of the 1999 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, then selected the five women researchers in the Physical Sciences as the Laureates of the 2011 Awards. Their pioneering projects contribute to finding solutions to major challenges for our planet. Other winners include Professor Faiza Al-kharafi (Africa and Arab States), Professor Anne L'huillier (Europe), Professor Silvia Torres-Peimbert (Latin America), Professor Jillian Banfield (North America).
The awards ceremony will take place on March 3, 2011 at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris.
For the biography of Professor Yam, please visit: http://www.hku.hk/cpaoesite/press/101110yam-eng
For the video of the press conference, please visit : http://uvision.hku.hk/portal/video.php?video_id=11450
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk  .
