[title]FAMILY Project Cohort Study Findings
“3Hs” in Hypertension Control: Act Together to Save Lives Now[/title]
[date]13 Dec 2012[/date]
 
A major territory-wide study on health, happiness and harmony in Hong Kong families has found that 32% of respondents suffered from high blood pressure but only 46% of them were ever diagnosed as hypertensive by a doctor. 70% of those ever diagnosed were prescribed blood pressure lowering medication, while 42% of this treated group attained good control of blood pressure.
Among those on treatment, happier individuals and those who lived in more cohesive neighbourhoods were more likely to achieve good blood pressure control.
These findings come from the FAMILY project, funded by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust and initiated in collaboration with the School of Public Health of The University of Hong Kong (HKU). Researchers interviewed 16,039 adults at home between March 2009 and March 2011 with a view to understanding the “3Hs”: health, happiness and harmony in the family setting. Participants’ blood pressure levels were measured by researchers according to a standardized protocol on site.
Persistent, uncontrolled hypertension may lead to potentially fatal conditions such as heart disease, stroke, kidney failure and dementia. According to 2011 statistics provided by the Centre for Health Protection of the Department of Health, up to 26% of deaths in Hong Kong could be related to hypertension.
Prof Gabriel Leung, Head of HKU’s Department of Community Medicine, said: “Our findings confirm the ‘rule of halves’ where roughly only half of all hypertensive cases are diagnosed, half of those diagnosed are treated, and half of those treated are well-controlled. Up to one-quarter of all deaths may be directly or indirectly caused by hypertension, making it the number one modifiable health risk. This status quo deserves our immediate attention given that we have the opportunity to save thousands of lives every year.”
Prof Leung also called on the public to be more aware of hypertension and to undergo regular blood pressure checks. Those found to be hypertensive should ensure optimal control, through appropriate management by family doctors including taking medication. Maintaining a state of happiness and living in a cohesive neighbourhood could help patients control their blood pressure, according to Prof Leung.
Mr Douglas So, Executive Director of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust, said the FAMILY project is the first ever tracking survey of families in Hong Kong, with the emphasis on the importance of family relationships to the well-being of individual members of the family. Close collaborations have been forged with many social service groups in organising a serious of support programmes, including “Happy Family Kitchen” and “Learning Family”, with the aim of strengthening intergenerational relationships and contributing to the "health, happiness and harmony" of family life.
FAMILY Project
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has partnered with the School of Public Health of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine to collaboratively launch a project entitled “FAMILY: A Jockey Club Initiative for a Harmonious Society” (FAMILY Project”) with a HK$250 million donation. From March 2009 to March 2011, the first round of the ‘FAMILY Project cohort study: A population-based household survey’ was conducted. The survey explored a wide variety of topics related to Health, Happiness, and Harmony (3Hs). The second round household survey, a follow-up to the first, began in July 2011 and will continue for 24 months.
More information about the press release, including the news photos, are available at our website: http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases/

Prof Gabriel Leung, Head of HKU’s Department of Community Medicine said that up to one-quarter of all deaths may be directly or indirectly caused by hypertension which deserves our immediate attention of this circumstance.

Prof Leung mentioned that by maintaining a state of happiness and living in a cohesive neighbourhood could help patients control their blood pressure.


