[title]New Technology, New Reservoirs for a New Campus[/title]
[date]14 Dec 2009[/date]
 


The new Western Service Reservoirs were handed over by the University of Hong Kong (HKU) to the Water Supplies Department (WSD) in a ceremony held on the roof of one of the freshwater reservoirs today (December 14). 
The move signifies a new chapter of partnership between the University and the WSD.  For the Centennial Campus to be developed, HKU undertook the re-provisioning of freshwater and saltwater storage facilities of the Western Service Reservoirs for the department. The works commenced in April 2007 and took two and a half years to complete, at a cost of HK$500 million. 
An innovative and environmentally-friendly method to house two saltwater reservoirs in a rock cavern was adopted in the construction, which was also the first of its kind for water storage in Hong Kong. The cavern was excavated using a non-explosive drill-and-break tunneling method to minimize the disturbance caused to the environment and nearby residents. 
At the ceremony, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of the University, said: ‘This is just the latest chapter in the long-standing partnership between HKU and the WSD, which is as old as the University itself. Not many will know that the lands where the Main Building and the Haking Wong Building now stand were previously occupied by WSD pumping stations.' 
‘I am pleased to say that the construction of the Centennial Campus has just begun, after the completion of the reservoir works. In another two and a half years, the campus will be ready for the implementation of our new four-year curriculum in 2012.  It also marks a new chapter for HKU as it enters its second century.' Professor Tsui added. 
Mr Ma Lee Tak, JP, Director of Water Supplies, said: ‘The Western Service Reservoirs serve more than 120,000 people in the Central, Western and Peak Districts. The cavern reservoir has utilized the underground space without disturbing the natural vegetation above or causing visual impacts to the neighbourhood.' 
‘To achieve excellence in water supply services would very much depend on application of new technologies and the University has long been renowned for its leading role in exploring new technology frontiers and engineering applications.  We look forward to further cooperation with the University to uphold our guiding principles in urban development and enhance our services to the people in Hong Kong.' Mr Ma added. 
At the end of the ceremony, Professor John Malpas, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU, introduced to participating guests the future Centennial Campus and highlighted the key features of the campus including the three Faculty Buildings, the Academic Courtyards, and the University Street.  The roof of the two freshwater reservoirs, with an area of 4,000 square metres, will become a landscaped garden with more than a hundred trees. 
After the ceremony, the rock cavern which houses the saltwater reservoirs was open to the guests and media representatives for the first time.  All the saltwater reservoirs and freshwater reservoirs are already in operation for the residents of the Central and Western District. 
Dr the Hon Leong Che-hung, GBS, JP, Chairman of HKU Council and Mr Jack So, JP, Chairman of HKU Campus Development and Planning Committee also officiated at the ceremony. 
For information of HKU Centennial Campus, please click here.
For Information of the Reservoir Re-provisioning Project, please click here. 
For media enquiries, please contact Mr Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations) at 28578555 or 91880219. 

 


(From left) Mr Jack CK So, Chairman of HKU Campus Development &amp; Planning Committee; Dr the Hon Leong Che-Hung, HKU Council Chairman; Mr Ma Lee Tak, Director of Water Supplies; and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU Vice-Chancellor, officiated at the ceremony
 
Professor John Malpas, HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor, introduced to participating guests the future Centennial Campus and its key features

The new Western Service Reservoirs were handed over by HKU to the Water Supplies Department
 
The saltwater reservoirs are housed in a rock cavern
 
 
 
