[title]HKU Sichuan Reconstruction Project receives Best Youth Service Award[/title]
[date]05 Apr 2012[/date]
 
The HKU Sichuan Reconstruction Project was granted the Best Youth Service Award at the 10th Anniversary of the International Volunteer Closing Ceremony held by the Agency for Volunteer Service on March 30 (Friday).
The award was granted by the Agency to celebrate the "10th Anniversary of the International Year of Volunteers" and the "International Year of Youth". HKU student representatives Ms Ada Tien (Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Year 3) and Mr. Christopher Lee (PhD. Year 1), who had served in the Project in 2010 and 2009 respectively, received the award from the President of the Legislative Council Hon Tsang Yok Sing.
Over 100 teachers and students from the University have joined the Sichuan Reconstruction Project since its establishment under the Sichuan Earthquake Roundtable Fund in 2009. The Fund was set up by HKU community members to support research and service-oriented initiatives in the earthquake affected areas. Teachers contributing to the Project include Dr. Wilton Fok, Dr. Philip Pong, Prof. Ben Young, Dr. Y C Wu, Dr. Alfred Yu, Dr. Vincent Tam, Dr. K S Lui of the Faculty of Engineering, and Dr. Allan Yuen of the Faculty of Education.
For media enquiries, please contact Dr Wilton Fok at wtfok@eee.hku.hk , tel: 93676877; Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .


Ms. Ada Tien (Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Year 3) and Mr. Christopher Lee (PhD Year 1) represent the group to receive the award from Legislative Council President Hon Tsang Yok Sing


From Left: Dr. Wilton Fok (teacher coordinator), Dr. F.C. Chan (President of Hong Kong Institution of Engineers), Ms. Ada Tien, Mr. Dennis Ho, Ms. Zoe Yiu, Hon Tsang Yok Sing , Mr. Eric Au Yeung, Mr. Ken Law, Mr. Luk Chuen Kit, Mr. Kam Ning, Mr. Christopher Lee



