[title]Professor Lee Sum Ping appointed as Dean of the HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine[/title]
[date]20 Feb 2008[/date]
 


Picture 1

Professor Lee Sum Ping has been appointed Dean of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) for a fixed term of 5 years.
The HKU Council today (February 20) approved the appointment recommended by HKU Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, based on the proposal of the Search Committee, which conducted a thorough and open search process locally and internationally.
Professor Lee is currently Cyrus E Rubin Endowed Chair and Head, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington School of Medicine Teaching Hospitals, Professor of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, and Chief, Gastroenterology Section, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centre, Seattle, Washington, USA.
Professor Lee received his MBBS and MD degrees from HKU in 1970 and 1980 respectively, and his PhD in 1978 from the University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. He is a Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, the American College of Physicians, and the American College of Gastroenterology, and a Member of the American Association of Physicians and the American Society of Clinical Investigation. 
Professor Tsui welcomed the appointment of Professor Lee, and noted: "In addition to having distinguished academic credentials, an international reputation in his field and a remarkable track record in research, Professor Lee has displayed strong leadership and team-building skills and will bring to the Deanship a wealth of experience in administration and personnel management."
"As an alumnus of HKU, he is well positioned to build networks with our alumni and the community, and to raise the Faculty's profile. I am confident that he will help the Faculty to realise its vision to be a world leader in medical education, research and health care," he added.
As Professor Lee plans to join HKU in August 2008, the Council today appointed Professor Raymond Liang as the Dean of the Faculty until the arrival of Professor Lee. Professor Liang has been the Acting Dean of the Medical Faculty since March 2007.
Further resources:
Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine press release: &lt; http://www.hku.hk/press&gt;
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Denise Wong, Manager (Media), External Relations Office, HKU (Tel:- 2859 2600 /E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)

