[title]307 outstanding Mainland students admitted to HKU’s 2014/15 undergraduate programme[/title]
[date]13 Jul 2014[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has selected 307 top students for undergraduate study in 2014. There were over ten thousand applications in the Mainland admissions exercise for its 2014/15 undergraduate programmes.
This year, applications were received from 31 provinces, cities and autonomous regions throughout the Mainland. The top students, among which the youngest is only 14 years old, attained outstanding results in the Mainland’s National Joint College Entrance Examination and excelled in a variety of ways. Sixteen of them ranked the first in local provinces or cities.
Seven students aspiring to do research were admitted under the Science Research Scheme of the Faculty of Science. Each student will be assigned a research mentor who will oversee the progress of the student throughout the duration of study. Students will also be guaranteed one opportunity to study and research both locally and overseas in some state-of-the-art laboratories of the top universities such as Harvard University, MIT, and Stanford University.
Mr. Wu Yaochen, the top Science-stream student in Shanghai, is also on the Science Research Scheme track. "I am determined to pursue a research career in mathematics and physics. Research has significant value attached to society, and therefore worthwhile my effort. HKU is an ideal platform with a wide range of opportunities to learn from the world's leading research universities", he said.
Ms. Huang Jiaxin, a "Zhuangyuan" of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, was admitted to the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). "Born into a family of doctors, I wish to become a doctor just like my parents. Joining HKU will not only take me to the forefront of medicine, but will also help me to be more independent", she said.
Meanwhile, 12 students out of thousands of applicants were admitted to the joint recruitment scheme with the University of Cambridge for studies in Engineering. They will study at the HKU Faculty of Engineering for a year. Qualified students will then continue to study at Cambridge.
The President &amp; Vice-Chancellor of HKU, Professor Peter Mathieson, in congratulating all the admitted Mainland students, said, "HKU's international reputation for recruiting some of the best minds from the Mainland was well known to me before I arrived here in Hong Kong. I am thrilled that so many talented students are joining the HKU family this summer. They add much to the academic atmosphere of HKU."
For media enquiries, please contact HKU Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office
Ms Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media) (Tel: 2859 2600/Email: melwkwan@hku.hk)

Top Science-stream student in Shanghai Wu Yaochen will study at the Faculty of Science.

Top Science-stream student in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region Huang Jiaxin will study at Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.


