[title]Dr Li Dak Sum donates HK$300 Million to three universities to establish scholarships for young talents[/title]
[date]17 Dec 2015[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU), the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) received a HK$300 million donation from Dr Li Dak Sum for the establishment of scholarship schemes to nurture young talents.
An endowment fund, namely Li Dak Sum Yip Yio Chin Kenneth Li Education Fund, will be set up by the three universities respectively with the HK$100 million donation each to award scholarships to local undergraduates who graduated from Ning Po College and Ning Po No.2 College and are outstanding in both academic performance and personal conduct, and with financial need.
Dr Li, a renowned businessman and philanthropist, has always been dedicated to supporting education in Hong Kong and Mainland China. He believes nurturing young talents can help advance the country. Dr Li is the Founding Chairman of the Ning Po Residents Association (Hong Kong), which established Ning Po College and Ning Po No.2 College in Hong Kong.
A donation agreement signing ceremony of Li Dak Sum Yip Yio Chin Kenneth Li Scholarship was held on 15 December. Among the guests at the ceremony were Dr Li Dak Sum and his family members, including his son Mr Richard Li Lap Fung, and his grandson Mr Kenneth Li, as well as Presidents and Directors of the Ning Po Residents Association (Hong Kong). HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Joseph J Y Sung, and HKUST President Professor Tony F Chan, also attended the ceremony.
Dr Li said: “I am pleased to collaborate with the three top-notch universities in Hong Kong. I hope that the scholarship can encourage students to strive for excellence and seek admission to the three universities. I am confident that the three universities will continue nurturing more future leaders.”
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson thanked Dr Li sincerely for this wonderful major gift in support of nurturing young talents. He said: “We applaud Dr Li’s long-term vision of supporting education. It is with this support that HKU continues to thrive and contribute to the advancement of education for the betterment of society.”
Professor Joseph J Y Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK expressed his deep gratitude to Dr Li’s relentless support towards CUHK.  He said: “We are honored to have received a generous donation from Dr Li again after receiving from Dr Li mid this year a donation to support the establishment of the R&amp;D Centre for Chinese Medicine.  CUHK will continue to nurture young leaders who are committed to the wellness of our society.  I hope that our students can follow the footsteps of Dr Li to strive for excellence and contribute to society in the future.”
HKUST President Professor Tony F Chan expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Dr Li for his generosity. He said: “Dr Li has been a staunch supporter of tertiary education in Hong Kong. We are honored to be one of the recipients of the donation. HKUST will play its part to nurture our students not only by enriching their knowledge and broadening their global vision, but also encouraging them to be a thoughtful and responsible citizen.”
The scholarships will be launched in the academic year 2016-17. Each year, the three universities will award up to a total of 51 scholarships, and each student will receive HK$50,000 per year for 4 years totaling HK$200,000.                   
For media enquiries, please contact:                                                                                     
The University of Hong Kong
Melanie Wan
Tel: 2859 2600
Email: melwkwan@hku.hk
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Karen Cheng
Tel: 3943 8892
Email: karencheng@cuhk.edu.hk
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Sherry No
Tel: 2358 6317
Email: sherryno@ust.hk        
Gloria Sin
Tel: 3469 2512
Email: gloriasin@ust.hk
