[title]Generous bequest from the late Mr Yao Ling-Sun
to four local tertiary institutions and charitable organisations
[/title]
[date]02 Jul 2014[/date]
 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, the University of Hong Kong, Po Leung Kuk and the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals have received equal shares of HK$110 million bequest from the late Mr Yao Ling-Sun as a legacy to benefit future generations.
Mr Yao Ling-Sun, a local pioneer in the construction industry, was born in Shanghai in 1912.  He passed away in October 2007 at the age of 95. Throughout his life, Mr Yao dedicated himself to serving the Hong Kong community as well as contributing to education and public well-being. Mr Yao Ling-Sun and his generous deeds will live long in our memory.
Establishment of Yao Ling Sun Professorships at 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) set up two Yao Ling Sun Professorships, one in Surgery and one in Architecture through the generous bequest of Mr Yao Ling Sun. “The Yao family extended Mr Yao Ling Sun’s philanthropy and selfless devotion in education. The donation has made possible two endowed professorships in the School of Architecture and the Department of Surgery. The gift will foster academic excellence and enhance the strategic development of the University. It will go a long way towards enhancing the research in Architecture and Surgery at CUHK, thus contributing to the well-being of the people of Hong Kong and the wider world community,” said Professor Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of CUHK at the Cheque Presentation Ceremony on 23 June 2014.
CUHK has chosen from amongst its most distinguished faculty members, and has appointed Professor Ng Yan Yung Edward and Professor Lau Yun Wong James to be the first incumbent of Yao Ling Sun Professor of Architecture and Yao Ling Sun Professor of Surgery respectively. The interest generated from the endowment funds will be able to provide additional and stable annual funding to the incumbent professors’ related research activities in perpetuity.
Establishment of “Yao Ling Sun Cultural Commons” and the “Yao Ling Sun Student Development Fund” at The University of Hong Kong
The bequest from the late Mr Yao Ling-Sun endorses the conviction of HKU of developing its new tradition of residential college education.
This generous gift from Mr Yao will contribute to the “Yao Ling Sun Cultural Commons” and the “Yao Ling Sun Student Development Fund” at Lap-Chee College, thus benefitting more than 400 students every year.
The Band Room, Tea Chamber, E-Learning Centre, and mirrored-wall Studio of the “Yao Ling Sun Cultural Commons” will be exceptional focal points for students of different nationalities to meet and interact. The “Yao Ling Sun Student Development Fund” will be a permanent fund to facilitate students’ local community projects, and global service learning opportunities.
Lap-Chee College is one of the four HKU residential colleges at Kennedy Town and is named after the immediate past Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui. The College represents the shared values and educational goals of the University and its benefactors. It will have its own mission, motto and character, and its members will enjoy life-long bonds after graduation.
Support of Po Leung Kuk’s
Rehabilitation and Educational Development
The late Mr Yao Ling-Sun is well recognised for his benevolence and generosity.  Po Leung Kuk (PLK) will be using Mr Yao’s generous bequest to support the development of Rehabilitation and Educational services.  Part of the bequest will be dedicated to the setting up of the “PLK Yao Ling Sun Charity Fund for Rehabilitation Services”. In addition, “PLK Yao Ling Sun Hostel”, a service unit for the intellectually disabled in Tin Shui Wai, will be named after the late Mr Yao. The rest of the bequest will be allocated to the improvement of hostel facilities and the provision of services for the disabled.
In memory of the late Mr Yao and his devotion in nurturing the young, Po Leung Kuk has allotted approximately half of the bequest to the establishment of the “PLK Yao Ling Sun Memorial Education Fund” for the future development and campus improvement of PLK Yao Ling Sun College. Mr Yao served as Vice Chairman of Po Leung Kuk in the 1970s. He committed much of his time and resources to the teaching staff and students of PLK Yao Ling Sun College since the School’s establishment. He also established scholarships and quality education funds particularly for the underprivileged.
Ms Angela OK Leong, Chairman of Po Leung Kuk, expressed her sincere admiration towards Mr Yao. “I trust that Po Leung Kuk and the various beneficiaries will follow the footsteps of the late Mr Yao and strive to help those in need."
Support of Tung Wah Group of Hospitals’
Rehabilitation Services and Elderly Care
The Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (TWGHs) will be using the generous bequest to support three welfare projects of TWGHs. The first project is the launch of a new Day Activity Centre cum Hostel in Tin Shui Wai, which provides the severely mentally disabled persons residential, day care and training services aiming to improve their self-care ability and independence. The Centre is now under renovation and is expected to commence service by August this year, targeting to provide 52 residential places, 104 day places and 4 places of residential respite service.
Two charitable funds dedicated to provide assistance to the severely mentally disabled persons and elders who are in urgent or special needs will also be established, namely “TWGHs Yao Ling Sun Memorial Rehabilitation Charitable Fund” and “TWGHs Yao Ling Sun Memorial Fund for the Elderly”. The funds will subsidize the service users to buy medical and rehabilitation supplies, improve their homes and buy necessities for daily living, so as to provide the underprivileged with holistic care.
The TWGHs Board of Directors would like to express their heartfelt gratitude to the late Mr Yao Ling Sun and his family, for their dedication to serve the community and support towards the benevolent spirit of TWGHs. Chairman of the TWGHs Board Mr SZE Wing Hang, Ivan denoted that Mr Yao’s kindness would set a good model for the society, encouraging more people to donate for services provided by TWGHs and enhancing the well-being of Hong Kong people.
Media Enquiries:
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Miss Karen Cheng, Communications and Public Relations Manager
Tel: 3943 8892 / Email: karencheng@cuhk.edu.hk
The University of Hong Kong
Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media)
Tel: 2859 2606 / Email: pychoy@hku.hk
Po Leung Kuk
Ms Fion Kwan, Senior Corporate Communications Executive
Tel︰2277 8452 / Email: fion.kwan@poleungkuk.org.hk
Tung Wah Group of Hospitals
Ms Janet Tang, Assistant Manager (Corporate Communications)
Tel︰2859 7482 / Email: janet.tang@tungwah.org.hk

Mrs Yao Ling Sun presents the donation cheque to Professor Joseph Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President 

(From left) Professor James Lau, Yao Ling Sun Professor of Surgery of CUHK; Professor Joseph Sung, CUHK Vice-Chancellor and President; Mrs Yao Ling Sun, Mr Kenson Yao and Ms Mary Yao.



The Yao Family with the HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson, Master Professor C F Lee and student representatives of the Lap-Chee College.

The Tea Chamber at the Yao Ling Sun Cultural Commons of Lap-Chee College.



Mrs Yao and Chairman Angela Leong at the cheque presentation ceremony. Over HK$ 27 million are donated to Po Leung Kuk for the development of rehabilitation and educational services.

Group photo of Mrs Yao (front left five) and daughter (front left four), Po Leung Kuk Board of Directors and Advisors, as well as students of PLK Yao Ling Sun College and rehabilitation services users.



Mr SZE Wing Hang (left), the TWGHs Chairman, receiving on Tung Wah’s behalf a donation cheque from the late Mr Yao Ling Sun, represented by Mrs Yao (right).

The family of the late Mr Yao, members of the TWGHs Board of Directors and the service users of the recipient units took a photo together at the donation ceremony to commemorate the occasion.


