[title]Community Legal Information Centre (CLIC) Website – Greater Access to Legal Information for the Public[/title]
[date]14 May 2007[/date]
 
The China Information Technology &amp; Law Centre of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is delighted to announce the completion of the CLIC (Community Legal Information Centre) (社區法網), a bilingual legal information website which will enable the general public to have greater access to legal information and legal services in Hong Kong.
CLIC is established by the China Information Technology and Law Centre (jointly run by the Faculty of Law and the Department of Computer Science) of the HKU. The project is commissioned by the HKSAR Government under which the Centre is to develop, host and maintain the website as an adjunct to the HKLII (Hong Kong Legal Information Institute), a popular research tool by the legal profession also maintained by the Centre.
The project owes its success to the Department of Justice of the HKSAR Government for their funding assistance and substantial contribution to the establishment of the website.Not only the website provides user-friendly information on a number of legal topics which are closely related to citizens' daily lives and it also helps citizens to acquire a preliminary understanding of the relevant law before seeking advice from lawyers. The content of the website has expanded since its first launch in 2005, and now covers 21 categories including Bankruptcy &amp; Winding-up, Consumer Complaints, Hong Kong Legal System, Employment Disputes, Insurance, Landlord &amp; Tenant, Legal Aid, Matrimonial Matters, Personal Injuries, Police &amp; Crime, Sale &amp; Purchase of Property (Real Estate), Taxation and many others. 
Members of the public can also check out for information on where to seek free legal assistance, and how to get a lawyer from the CLIC Website. 
The CLIC Website:- www.hkclic.orgwww.hkclic.org and www.clic.org.hk.
A ceremony marking the completion of the CLIC Website is held today (14 May), and it is also part of the programme celebrating the 10th Anniversary of the establishment of the HKSAR. The ceremony is officiated by Mr Ian Wingfield, Solicitor General of the HKSAR Government and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU.Representatives from the Judiciary, government departments, statutory bodies, non-governmental organizations, the Legislative Council and the District Council will attend the ceremony.
For further details, please contact Miss Rachel Li at the HKU Faculty of Law (Tel: 2859 2919).
For photos of completion ceremony, please click the "Photo Gallery" icon inside the "Weekly Notice for the Media" webpage (http://www.hku.hk/media).
