[title]HKU Awarded for Energy Efficiency Endeavours[/title]
[date]09 May 2006[/date]
 
Once again The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is recognized for its endeavours to save energy and the environment.Today (May 9, 2006) a "Silver Award" and "a Merit and New Building Award" in the Tertiary Sub-category were presented to HKU in the "Hong Kong Energy Efficiency Awards" presentation ceremony, a competition organized by the Electrical &amp; Mechanical Services Department of the HKSAR, and supported by China Light &amp; Power and The Hongkong Electric Co., Ltd.
HKU's winning entry for the Silver Award is the Kadoorie Biological Sciences Building which is an academic building for the Faculty of Science.The building incorporates an energy saving design and effective energy audit is carried out every year.Besides, various measures have been introduced to save energy consumption, such as re-zoning air-conditioning supply system, trimming fresh air supply, resetting supply air temperature, disabling reheat features for laboratories when necessary and retrofitting fluorescent lights with electronics ballasts .These measures bring about an average energy saving of 9.5% in 2004 and 2005. 
The winning entry for the Merit and New Building Award is the Faculty of Medicine Building, an academic building for the Faculty of Medicine that was inaugurated in 2001.Energy consumption of the building is monitored by the annual effective energy audit, and saving has been achieved with the introduction of various energy saving measures such as trimming fresh air supply for the air-conditioning system and raising chilled water supply temperature to 8 or 9 degree C during cooler seasons, etc. 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Prof. Lap-chee Tsui is very pleased with the awards, "HKU promotes sustainability and energy efficiency is an important part to it.It is not only the money savings that we are concerned about, rather we want to raise the awareness for a better environment to which we all belong".
HKU has implemented various energy efficiency measures on campus since 1991.The accumulative energy saved since then is estimated at HK$80 million.Its energy saving achievements have been widely recognized, including the Haking Wong Building and Knowles Building which were awarded with the Code of Practice for energy efficiency of air-conditioning installation in 1999 in the HK Energy Efficiency Registration Scheme for Buildings launched by the Electrical &amp; Mechanical Services Department of the HKSAR. 
The University established an Energy Saving Working Group in mid-2002, to explore more initiatives to bring about energy saving.A more important achievement is the making known to the University public that energy saving is well supported by the University senior management. 
For photos of the award, please click http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia/ and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery".
For enquiries please contact Ms. Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU at 2859 2606.
