[title]HKU Council resolves to set up an Ad Hoc Group to prepare for the search for a new Vice-Chancellor; Professor Lap-Chee Tsui consents to stay on for up to 18 months[/title]
[date]07 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), at a special meeting today (November 7), resolved unanimously to set up an Ad Hoc Group to consult staff, students, alumni and other stakeholders of the University on the procedures and criteria for the selection of the 15th Vice-Chancellor, and to make recommendations to the Council in the light of the comments and suggestions received.
The meeting was held after the current Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, has decided that he does not wish to seek reappointment after completing two terms of service.
The Council also resolved unanimously at the meeting to invite Professor Tsui to continue serving as Vice-Chancellor after the end of his contract on August 31, 2012 for a period of up to 18 months to facilitate a smooth transition of the University's leadership.
The Ad Hoc Group will comprise eight members. Mr Paul Chow Man-yiu, Treasurer of the University, was appointed Convenor at today's meeting. The other members are:
 Chairman of the Human Resource Policy Committee
 A Faculty Dean (to be nominated by the Faculty Deans from among themselves)
 Two academic members of the Senate, other than the Faculty Deans and Senior Management Team members (one professorial member and one non-professorial member, to be elected from among their own number)
 A non-academic staff member (to be elected from among their own number)
 An alumnus/alumna to be nominated by the Convocation of the University)
 A student member (to be nominated by the undergraduate and postgraduate student bodies)
Mr Chow said that he expected it would take about four months for the Ad Hoc Group to complete its tasks and provide recommendations to the Council.
Dr Leong Che-hung, Chairman of the Council said he was confident that a new Vice-Chancellor could be appointed within two years, and before the end of Professor Tsui's extended term, which is now more than two years away.
The last search exercise, which made Professor Tsui the 14th Vice-Chancellor of the University, took about two years from the setting up of an ad hoc group to Professor Tsui's assuming office on September 1, 2002.
Dr Leong thanked the Vice-Chancellor on behalf of the Council for his kind offer to help in facilitating a smooth transition to his successor.
"The Council was very grateful to the Vice-Chancellor for offering to make sure a smooth transition to the arrival of the next Vice-Chancellor, and once again thanked Professor Tsui for the valuable contribution he had made to the University," Dr Leong said.
Regarding the resolutions of the Council meeting, Professor Tsui said: "I am grateful to the Council for contacting me during its meeting to seek my views on its invitation for me to stay on for a period of 18 months, as the Council has a concern that this could affect my personal plans."
"I told the Council that, as I have indicated before, I'm most willing to help in any way that would contribute to the smooth transition to the arrival of the next Vice-Chancellor. Indeed, I have always made the University's best interests my top priority, and will continue to do so during my remaining time in office," he added.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
