[title]Local Primary 4 and 5 Students Gained Hands-on Experiences of the Innovative HKU Maths E-textbook [/title]
[date]01 Mar 2015[/date]
 
The Mathematics E-textbook Experience Classes organized by the e-Learning Development Laboratory, HKU were held successfully on February 26 and 27 at the main campus of the University of Hong Kong. Participants included students from CCC Wan Chai Church Kei To Primary School, Fresh Fish Traders' School, HKUGPA Primary School, Kau Yan School, Kwun Tong Government Primary School, P.L.K Chee Jing Yin Primary School and P.L.K Chong Kee Ting Primary School.
More than 60 primary 4 and 5 students tried out the iClass textbook on tablet devices and took part in collaborative learning, sharing and discussion sessions. Through creating an efficient real-time interactive learning environment, the e-Learning Development Laboratory aims to promote local interactive e-learning, as well as the development of e-textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
iClass Textbook – An innovative E-Lesson at HKU
The iClass LMS platform was developed by the e-Learning Development Laboratory few years ago, whereas the development of iClass Textbook is also upon completion and will be applied in the education sector in 2015. Dr. Wilton Fok, director of the e-Learning Development Laboratory of HKU indicated that the iClass Textbook possesses a competitive and revolutionary advantage over paper textbooks. “Traditional textbooks are converted into electronic versions. They are installed onto the cloud platform to enhance its convenience and user-friendliness. Interactive and multi-media effects can also be incorporated into the teaching materials,” Dr. Fok suggested. 
Shortly after delivering the welcoming speech, Dr. Fok began his teaching in the main building of HKU on February 26. Primary four courses included bar chart and mixed integer calculations, while primary five courses involved areas of shapes and the eight directions. Students were provided with tablet PCs to login the iClass Textbook and access various multi-media materials on the cloud platform. Students also held group discussions and submitted assignments using drawing, video and audio functions of the platform. Cheng Tsz-ching, a student of Kau Yan School said, “iClass Textbook is much more interesting than traditional paper textbooks, for example we can use the electronic rubber to remove wrong answers from the e-textbook.”
During the course, students were encouraged to visit the clock tower, south and north courtyards and Lok Yew Hall in the main building with their tablet PCs to take photos of the architectural structures and ornaments. They visited the Stephen Hui Geological Museum, the University Street, the Academic Courtyard and the Arts and Social Sciences Faculty Buildings to carry out calculation activities. Students recorded information for constructing bar charts, including areas of designated locations and submitted to the cloud platform for subsequent sharing. Experiencing the atmosphere of university in the midst of vivacious activities, the students were enchanted by the pleasure of learning. Ng Man-yuk, a student of Fresh Fish Traders’ School suggested, “Forgetting to bring stationery to class is no longer a problem. We can use those in the iClass Textbook. We can save the notes written in lesson for revision and finish our assignments at home efficiently.” 
Playing a paramount role in diversifying and enriching the content of the textbook, the platform encourages students to conduct peer learning via interactive functions. The iClass Textbook contains a wide variety of learning activities that increase the attentiveness of students and enjoyment in class.
“iClass Textbook assists teachers to provide students with instant feedback and tackle time-consuming procedures of collecting, marking and distributing assignments,” Mr. Lee Chi-shing, teacher of P.L.K Chee Jing Yin Primary School indicated that the assessment function of iClass Textbook is another innovative tool that effectively supports real-time student, class and question level analysis. The system is equipped with multiple statistical tools which favour teachers to check answers promptly and offer feedback precisely.
February 28 was the e-Textbook Launching Ceremony and Award Ceremony of the course, in which principals, teachers, students and parents were invited. A launching ceremony was held, preceding the delivery of awards and certificates. Ms. Iris Sze, Business Development Manager of Hong Kong Education City Limited spoke to the audience during the event, “I am very glad to witness the launch of the trial ersion of this e-textbook.  The e-Learning Development Lab of the University of Hong Kong strives to increase the quality of education through e-learning, Hong Kong Education City happens to hold the same view.”
iClass Textbook and Platform
The e-Learning Development Laboratory has successfully developed and compiled a set of primary Mathematics e-textbooks, in which iClass e-textbook platform functions are utilized to produce diversified exercises and auxiliary learning tools, such as learning notes, dictionary, drawing, picture insertion, etc. Not only do they raise the attractiveness of the materials, but also encourage students to learn autonomously and grasp major ideas efficiently. The iBox button is another unique feature that connects to simulation activities, enriching the content and optimizing the learning efficiency. Large class sizes often hinder discussions and the collection of student feedback; while the cloud network technology precisely tackles this difficulty by connecting the e-textbook to the cloud platform. Teachers are able to massively collect assignments and answers for instant discussions. Concepts of “knowledge sharing” and “real-time communication” that contemporary education always places emphasis on have now been realized. The platform is also equipped with the Augmented Reality function, which helps students to comprehend the concepts of 3-D shapes at ease.
HKU e-Learning Development Laboratory
The e-Learning Development Laboratory, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, HKU is specifically established for developing technology of e-learning and auxiliary mobile devices, in pursuit of providing universities and other education bodies with innovative information technology for teaching, learning and assessment. The Lab is committed to encouraging the exchange of knowledge, technology and feedback between the research team and applicants including students and teachers. Through communicating experience in mobile applications, the effectiveness and improvement capacity of e-learning can be promptly monitored and evaluated. The Lab has been focusing on the development of iClass LMS platform since 2011. The project primarily aims at employing tablet PC and smartphone applications to maximize fluency and interactiveness of lessons, and facilitate communication between teachers and students.
Media Enquiries
e-Learning Development Laboratory, The University of Hong Kong
Ms. Zoe Yiu
Tel: (852) 2219 4277
Email: zyiu@hku.hk

Dr. Wilton Fok, Director of the e-Learning Development Laboratory of HKU

Dr. Wilton Fok and participating students


