[title]Centenary Distinguished Lecture by Professor Elizabeth H. Blackburn and Professor Susan Desmond-Hellmann: “The Future of Medicine: Connecting Patients to Promising Research”[/title]
[date]02 Dec 2011[/date]
 
Professor Elizabeth H. Blackburn, recipient of Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009 and Professor Susan Desmond-Hellmann, Chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco, today (Dec 2) visited the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and delivered a Centenary Distinguished Lecture entitled "The Future of Medicine: Connecting Patients to Promising Research". In the lecture, the two international experts on biomedical research and drug development discussed Dr Blackburn's groundbreaking work on aging and how it applies to the future of medicine.
Professor Blackburn is a leader in the area of telomere and telomerase research. She was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology of Medicine in 2009, for solving one of biology's great mysteries: how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase. Telomeres and telomerase play an important role in various diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. The research also let people understand how cells and bodies age.
While people put their focus on the question how can one live longer, Professor Blackburn pointed out that one should also learn how to live healthier. "We should think about health span but not just life span," said Professor Blackburn. "Research findings tell us that high stress and pessimist are correlated to short telomeres, and in some cases higher disease risk, while a positive frame of mind is correlated to better telomeres maintenance." Exercises, such as walking up the stairs, can also help one to maintain longer telomeres, added Professor Blackburn.
Professor Susan Desmond-Hellmann, Chancellor of the University of California San Francisco said she was excited to be here in Hong Kong and gave a talk at HKU on translational medicine. "Our mission at the University of California San Francisco is to "Advance Health Worldwide". The two ways that we can best achieve that mission are to accelerate the translation of groundbreaking science into promising therapies for patients and to do this critical work not just locally, but globally - through collaborations with outstanding scientists and clinicians here in Hong Kong and around the world."
"We are honored to be a part of the University of Hong Kong's centenary celebrations. My colleagues and I would like to warmly congratulate them on their outstanding achievements and to wish them great success over the next 100 years, " said Professor Desmond-Hellmann. 
Professor Desmond-Hellmann is an oncologist and renowned biotechnology leader. She served as president of product development at the biotechnology company Genentech before she assumed the post of Chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco. In 2009, Forbes magazine named her as one of the world's seven most "powerful innovators", calling her "a hero to legions of cancer patients".
The lecture was followed by a panel discussion, moderated by Shaw Prize recipient Professor Yuet Wai Kan, and with Dr Hardy Chan, Chief Executive Officer of Tanvex Biologics, Inc., and Professor Sum-ping Lee, Dean of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU as panelists.  
Besides, a group of 20 senior secondary school students from the Hong Kong Taoist Association Tang Hin Memorial Secondary School, Wah Yan College, Hong Kong, Diocesan Boys' School, Heep Yunn School and HKU undergraduates met Professor Elizabeth H. Blackburn for the "Lunch with a Laureate" activity this afternoon. 
During the lunch time dialogue, Professor Blackburn answered students' questions on her research, finings. She also shared with the students her role as a parent.
In appreciation of Professor Blackburn's sharing, students presented gifts with Hong Kong's features to her in this special occasion, including Chinese paper-cutting, ink stamp, Professor Blackburn's portrait and Chinese tea leaves. They hoped Professor Blackburn could have a good impression on Hong Kong and enjoy her stay in the city.
As an extension of the Centenary Distinguished Lectures, the "Lunch with a Laureate" aims to foster Knowledge Exchange between university and secondary schools, and help students broaden their horizons by meeting face-to-face with some of the most brilliant minds in the world today.
The Centenary Distinguished Lectures
As part of its 100th anniversary celebrations in 2011 - 12, the University of Hong Kong is proud to present a series of Centenary Distinguished Lectures. Delivered by Nobel laureates and distinguished scholars from a wide range of disciplines, the Lectures will bring some of the most brilliant minds of today to HKU, to share their expertise, experience and world-class scholarship with the University community and the public.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
Professor Elizabeth Blackburn shared her insights with the HKU students and secondary school students at the occasion of the “Lunch with a Laureate”
 
Professor Elizabeth Blackburn shared her insights with the HKU students and secondary school students at the occasion of the “Lunch with a Laureate”
 
Students presented a Chinese paper cutting souvenir to Professor Blackburn
 
Professor Elizabeht H. Blackburn, recipient of Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009, delivers a Centenary Distinguished Lecture
 
Professor Susan Desmond-Hellmann, Chancellor of University of California, San Francisco
 
Panel discussion (from left) Professor Sum-ping Lee, Dean of the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, Professor Elizabeth H. Blackburn, recipient of Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009, Professor Yuet Wai Kan, Louis K. Diamond Professor of Hematology, University of California, San Francisco, Professor Susan Desmond-Hellmann, Chancellor of the University of California, San Francisco and Dr Hardy Chan, CEO, Tanvex Biologics and Co-founder and Senior Advisor, ScinoPharm Taiwan, Ltd.


