[title]Funeral &amp; Memorial Service for Mr Ken Leung Kam-wing, Miss Doris Leung Chung-see &amp; Miss Jessie Leung Song-yi[/title]
[date]09 Sep 2010[/date]
 
                                                         Press Release on behalf of the Leung Family and Friends
We mourn the untimely death of Mr Ken Leung Kam-wing and his two daughters, Doris Leung Chung-see and Jessie Leung Song-yi, in the tragic incident in Manila on 23 August, 2010 during their travels to the Philippines. 
Ken Leung was born on 9 April, 1952 in Hong Kong and received his education at Ng Wah Catholic Secondary School and The University of Hong Kong. At the time of his passing, he was Managing Director of Stadium Asia, a UK-based electronic manufacturing services company. He had worked as industrial engineer and professional manager in Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada and Mainland China, and attained a leadership role in the field of his specialty.  He was an ardent supporter of industrial engineering education and training at The University of Hong Kong and City University of Hong Kong, respectively. 
Doris Leung was born on 29 September, 1989 in Hong Kong and graduated from the Christian Alliance International School. She was a student at the University of Toronto, Scarborough, Canada, and was slated for her final year in environmental studies. She was a loving and sensitive daughter and sister, always at peace with herself and everyone else with whom she readily shared her sincere smile. 
Jessie Leung was born on 29 May, 1996 in Hong Kong. She was a student at HKMA David Li Kwok Po College and active in all school activities. Like her father, she was loved by all who knew her for her enthusiasm and helpfulness, and is remembered at the school as "a ray of sunshine" for her welcoming personality. 
The family is survived by the mother Amy Ng Yau-woon and son Jason Leung Song-xue. The Leungs, a Catholic family, abide by the words "our most basic instinct is not for survival but for family". They lived in Toronto, Canada and stayed regularly in Hong Kong but were undividedly devoted to the two communities they called home.  
The funeral will be held with Catholic rites. Rev. Dominic Chan, Vicar General of Hong Kong Catholic Diocese and Rev. Thomas Law, Supervisor of Ng Wah Catholic Secondary School will officiate. Details are as follows: 
Venue: Universal Parlour, Hung Hom
Date:   17 September, 2010 (Friday)
-  Public Tribute
3:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
-  Vigil Mass (for family, friends and registered groups only)
Reception at 6:00 pm  
Service at 8:00 p.m. 
Date:   18 September, 2010 (Saturday)
-  Public Tribute
8:30 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.
- Memorial &amp; Prayer Service (for family, friends and registered groups only)
Reception at 10:00 am 
Service at 10:30 a.m.
After the Memorial and Prayer Service, the bodies will be taken to Diamond Hill Crematorium for later interment at Cheung Sha Wan Catholic Cemetery.  The hearse will pass by Ng Wah Catholic Secondary School where Ken's fellow alumni and members of the Catholic community will gather for a farewell prayer for Ken and his two daughters.   
Media arrangement will be announced nearer the date. 
Enquiries:  
Islands District Office (tel: 2852 4573)
Reservation for groups to pay tribute: 
HKU Alumni Office (email: tributetoleung@hku.hk or tel: 2219 4836) 
May Ken, Doris and Jessie rest in peace. 
                The Leung Family &amp; Friends 

