[title]Crimson Summer Exchange (CSE) 2011 Ends with Resounding Success Provides Valuable Cultural and Intellectual Exchange Opportunities[/title]
[date]11 Aug 2011[/date]
 
Co-organized by the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and Crimson China Cultural Exchange Foundation Limited (CCCEF), Crimson Summer Exchange (CSE) 2011 ends with resounding success with tremendous support from various parties.
CSE is delivered by a group of Fellows who are young scholars from world renowned universities including Oxford, Cambridge, Yale, Harvard, Princeton, Columbia and MIT. HKU undergraduates also participate in the program as Co-Fellows to act as a bridge between the students and Fellows. Our Fellows and HKU undergraduates have excellent academic credentials and passion for cultural exchange and this year, over 400 local, Mainland and overseas high school students participated in the program.
CSE provides an excellent platform for cross-cultural exchange using English as the primary medium of communication. The innovative curriculum, designed by graduates of the Harvard Graduate School of Education together with the Fellows, aims to harvest the enthusiasm of youth, to challenge their world views, to guide them outside their zones of comfort and to encourage them to excel in their respective areas of talent.
CSE is now in its 8th year since its inception in 2004. Before the two-week program at the University of Hong Kong, the program was delivered at Mianyang of Sichuan province from July 17 - 28 to 105 local students as community service project. A parallel session was also delivered in Beijing with enormous support from The High School of Peking University.
A closing ceremony of CSE 2011 will be held at Rayson Huang Theatre in HKU on August 12 and the students will demonstrate their talents during the final performance on the same day. Media are welcomed to report on the event. For seat reservation, please contact Ms. Kathy Wong at tel: 2219 4553 / 9419 2906 or email to kathyw@hku.hk .
Media Contact:
(Ms.) Kathy Wong
Academic Liaison Section, Registry
9/F Knowles Building, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong
Tel:           (852) 2219 4553
Fax:    (852) 2858 4986
Email:     kathyw@hku.hk
Website: http://cse.cccef.org.hk/
