[title]Opening Ceremony of Centre for Innovation in Dental Education (CIDE)[/title]
[date]01 Mar 2011[/date]
 


Ribbon cutting ceremony to launch the Centre of Innovation in Dental Education of Faculty of Dentistry of HKU (right to left) - Lakshman P. Samaranayake, Dean of Faculty of Dentistry of HKU, Professor Amy B.M. Tsui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice President (Teaching and Learning) of HKU; Dr Cynthia K.Y. Yiu, co-director of CIDE cum Associate Dean of Faculty of Dentistry in undergraduate education, and Dr Susan Bridges, co-director of CIDE cum Assistant Dean of Faculty of Dentistry in curriculum development.

The Faculty of Dentistry of HKU hosted the opening ceremony of the Centre for Innovation in Dental Education (CIDE) yesterday (28 February 2011) at 6pm at Prince Philip Dental Hospital. Around 50 guests attended the ceremony including the Guest of Honour Professor Amy B.M. Tsui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice President (Teaching and Learning) of HKU; Professor Lakshman P. Samaranayake, Dean of Faculty of Dentistry of HKU and two directors of CIDE: Dr Cynthia K.Y. Yiu (cum Associate Dean of Faculty of Dentistry for undergraduate education) and Dr Susan Bridges (cum Assistant Dean of Faculty of Dentistry for curriculum development).
CIDE is the Faculty's new flagship virtual-hub for curriculum innovation and research. The objective of CIDE is to encourage innovation and promote excellence in teaching and learning in dentistry.
Professor Lakshman P. Samaranayake, Dean of Faculty of Dentistry of HKU stated, "As a virtual hub, CIDE will allow the Faculty to have a central convenient nexus for all its publications, guidelines, resources, and announcements related to undergraduate curriculum reform, innovation, and research. The online site represents an archive to show what we have achieved in educational development and research, as Hong Kong's only provider of undergraduate dental education."　
With the establishment of CIDE, the Faculty is able to focus innovation and crystallize multiple efforts in the ongoing improvement of teaching and learning at the Faculty, while making our findings, reports, and recommendations publicly accessible. The Faculty encourages colleagues in dental education to contribute to this site as a resource-not only for Faculty members, but as a hub for dental educators throughout Asia and beyond.
Centre for Innovation in Dental Education Website: http://facdent.hku.hk/learning/cide_index.html
Faculty of Dentistry Website: http://facdent.hku.hk/
- End -
For Enquiry：
Communication and Development Manager of Faculty of Dentistry of HKU
Melody Tang / Tel︰2859 0210; 9155 0980 / Fax：2517 0544 / Email：meltang@hkucc.hku.hk

