[title]HKU Faculty of Business and Economics Entrance Scholarship for JUPAS Applicants
[/title]
[date]09 Jul 2014[/date]
 
Faculty of Business and Economics of the University of Hong Kong is pleased to announce that sizable additional intake quota has been allocated to three of our undergraduate programmes listed below to admit more “Joint University Programmes Admissions System” (JUPAS) applicants.

We are also delighted to announce that the faculty-based entrance scholarships would be offered to JUPAS applicants with outstanding results in the 2014 Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Examination.  Eligible applicants admitted to the Faculty could be awarded a one-off scholarship of up to HK$50,000.
 In addition to the HKU Foundation Scholarship for Outstanding Students, the Entrance Scholarships would be offered to JUPAS applicants admitted to the following programmes in September 2014:
Bachelor of Economics, Bachelor of Economics and Finance [JUPAS Code: 6767]
Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting and Finance [JUPAS Code: 6781]
Bachelor of Business Administration (Information Systems) [JUPAS Code: 6793]
Bachelor of Business Administration (Law) and Bachelor of Laws [JUPAS Code: 6808]
Bachelor of Business Administration (International Business and Global Management) [JUPAS Code: 6896]
Bachelor of Science in Quantitative Finance [JUPAS Code: 6884]


All eligible students would be awarded the scholarships automatically when they are enrolled in the above programmes.  Students would be informed by the Faculty before November 2014.
For media enquiries, please contact:
Helen Wong
Assistant Communications Director
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 3917 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) at The University of Hong Kong (HKU) strives to nurture first-class business leaders and foster academic and relevant research to serve the needs of Hong Kong, China and the rest of the world in the new Asia-led economy.
As Asia’s premier international business school, FBE engages leading scholars from all corners of the globe and they instil in the students global knowledge with an Asian perspective.  The Faculty attracts top students from Hong Kong and beyond.  It admits the highest proportion of non-local undergraduate students amongst all Faculties at HKU. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University’s top 10 programmes. 
The Faculty’s full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS), has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia’s no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
The Faculty also offers an elite EMBA Global Asia programme, jointly with CBS and LBS, for globally-focused senior executives and professionals.  Its International MBA Programme, delivered in Shanghai in collaboration with Fudan University, was the first of its kind when it was launched in 1998.
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS).  Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
