[title]Information Technology Services &amp; HKU's Centre for E-Commerce Infrastructure Development to holda Press Conference (Press Invitation)[/title]
[date]12 May 2004[/date]
 
To News Editors:
The Director of Information Technology Services, Mr Alan Wong Chi-kong, and the Director of the University of Hong Kong's Centre for E-Commerce Infrastructure Development, Dr David Cheung Wai-lok, will jointly hold a press conference tomorrow (May 13) to introduce a forum on e-business interoperability and standardisation and talk about Hong Kong's achievement in the aspect. 
Details of the Press Conference as follows:
Date:May 13, 2004 (Thursday)
Time:3:30pm
Venue:Room 902 Knowles Building the University of Hong Kong
The Government is committed to promoting e-business standardisation as it helps different organisations achieve interoperability and service integration by providing a common language to conduct business, transfer technology and manage quality. 
A forum will be held on May 14 (Friday) to demonstrate the importance of interoperability and the benefits of standardisation to businesses, governments and the society. 
Details of the forum are available at www.cecid.hku.hk/forum/aboutforum.html
Three experts in the field who are speaking at the forum will join the press conference. They are: 
- Mr Jon Bosak, who chairs the OASIS (Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards)'s Universal Business Language Technical Committee. Mr Bosak is often known as the “Father of extensible markup language (XML)” because of his contribution to the creation of XML.
- Mr David Brock - Principal Research Scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and co-Founder and Director of the Auto-ID Center (now EPCglobal, Inc. and Auto-ID Laboratories), United States of America.
- Mr Stephen Miles – Broadband Internet Protocol Services Consultant, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Auto-ID Laboratories, United States of America.
Members of the Press are cordially invited to attend the press conference.For further enquiries, please contact Ms. Polo Leung of the External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
 
