[title]Living Water &amp; Community Revitalisation – 
An Agricultural-led Action, Engagement and Incubation Programme at Lai Chi Wo
[/title]
[date]01 May 2016[/date]
 



Volunteers planting rice seedlings


To incubate a sustainable development option for rural areas and villages in Hong Kong, the Kadoorie Institute of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) together with the Hong Kong Countryside Foundation, Produce Green Foundation, the Conservancy Association and inhabitants of a traditional Hakka village in Lai Chi Wo launched the “Living Water &amp; Community Revitalisation – An Agricultural-led Action, Engagement and Incubation Programme at Lai Chi Wo” (the Programme) on April 30, 2016.
Supported by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (HSBC) and endorsed by the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department of the HKSAR Government, the Programme is the first cross-sector partnership of its kind implementing sustainability initiatives and innovation in farming, training, education and research.
Mr. Wong Kam-sing, Secretary for the Environment of the HKSAR Government, opened the Programme’s plaque at the launch ceremony with Ms. Diana Cesar, Chief Executive, Hong Kong, HSBC; Professor Peter Mathieson, President and Vice-Chancellor of HKU; and village representatives of Lai Chi Wo village Mr. Tsang Ah-chat and Mr. Tsang Wai-yip.
Mr. Wong Kam-sing said: “The Sustainable Lai Chi Wo Programme not only promotes agricultural revitalisation and the conservation of rural biodiversity and natural heritage, but also shows how knowledge and rich resources of a community can be utilised to facilitate the conservation of rural areas in a flexible way. Continuous local participation is an important element in nature conservation and rural community development. With the professional knowledge from The Kadoorie Institute and its partnering organisations as well as the trusting relationship they have built with the community, we believe that the Sustainable Lai Chi Wo Programme will become a model for sustainable rural development in Hong Kong.”
Professor Peter Mathieson said: “HKU is the first university locally and internationally that pledges in our vision that we will respond purposefully to the modern day’s challenges identified by the United Nations through the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The Sustainable Lai Chi Wo Programme is a perfect example of how a University could take a leading role and incubate sustainability innovations.” The Programme is led by the Kadoorie Institute (HKU-KI) of the University.  Scholars from HKU have provided advice and support for the revitalisation of Lai Chi Wo, including an ecology and biodiversity research by biological scholars and a hydrology monitoring programme by engineering experts and geographers.
Ms. Diana Cesar said: “The revitalisation of Lai Chi Wo demonstrates how much is possible when local residents, academia and the private sector work together to care for Hong Kong's living past. HSBC is proud to have supported the conservation of a valuable part of our rural heritage through a project that brings to life a historical village for people today to enjoy and understand. We have been deeply connected with Hong Kong for 151 years and are committed to investing for the future in its environment and communities."
Hailing the Programme’s efforts in giving Lai Chi Wo a new lease of life, Mr. Tsang Wai-yip said: “I would like to thank HSBC for their support to this revitalisation programme in Lai Chi Wo which gives this remote village a lot of vibrancy and turns it into a new weekend destination for people in Hong Kong. Last but not least I must thank the volunteers and frontline partners who have contributed much time, sweat and great effort to Lai Chi Wo!”
The programme is a multi-year rural community development and revitalisation programme, it promotes the sustainable development of rural area through farming revitalisation and conservation of a traditional Hakka village. The multi-year programme started in late 2013 with the necessary preparation including leasing of farmland, building trust with the villagers and calling for interested individuals and organisations to participate in farm preparation, with the aid of Hong Kong Countryside Foundation. The Programme was officially launched to mark an important milestone as all the six hectares of farmland is now ready and the first exhibition, “Traditional rice farming”, has been opened in a restored village complex. The exhibition showcases a collection of old farming instruments used by Lai Chi Wo villagers before 1980s. Among the exhibits is an eye-catching zoetrope made by a local carpenter which shows the motion of rice threshing. The village complex will be used for education and training, exhibition and display, and community gathering.
Under the Programme, six hectares of farmland in the village is prepared to deliver various types of activity including eco-friendly organic farming of over ten kinds of produces, such as paddy rice, turnip, carrot, fennel, roselle, shungi ku, sweet potato leaves, coix seed, ginger lily, water spinach, ginger, pumpkin, cucumber, okra, seed lotus and red Chinese spinach. The Produce Green Foundation and HKU scholars provide technical supports to the farming programme so that it can respond scientifically to different seasonal environments.  The Programme also includes a leadership scheme which provides training to people who are interested in setting up small farms and local businesses in Lai Chi Wo. After receiving 12 months of training, leaders can submit proposals and start their farming. It has attracted some emigrated villagers and interested city dwellers to participate and hopefully will help rebuilding the local economy and community in Lai Chi Wo.  HKU-KI, in partnership with the Conservancy Association, also provides outdoor learning opportunities to primary school, secondary school and university students (Please click here for the Programme fact sheet).
The ceremony was celebrated with many contributors and supporters of the Programme, including Dr. Sarah Liao, Acting Director of HKU Kadoorie Institute; Mr. Lam Chiu Ying and Ms. Wendy Tsang, advisor and Chairman of HKCF; Dr. Albert Cheung, Vice Chairman of PGF; Dr. Hung Wing Tat, Director of CA; Dr. SF Leung, Director of AFCD;  and Mr. Lee Koon Hung, Chairman of Sha Tau Kok Rural Committee.  The guests filled a props with the Chinese words “rich harvest” with the locally grown rice, meaning full of produce brought by the project for sustainable development of Lai Chi Wo as well as Hong Kong society.
For more details, please visit the Programme website: http://www.kadinst.hku.hk/sustainablelcw/
Media inquiries:
Ms Regina LO              (tel.: 2219-4762/9748-2728; email: reginalo@hku.hk)
Ms Katie CHICK            (tel.: 5218-3023; email: ktchick@hku.hk)

(From Left) Village representatives of Lai Chi Wo village Mr. Tsang Ah-chat and Mr. Tsang Wai-yip; Professor Peter Mathieson, President and Vice-Chancellor of HKU; Ms. Diana Cesar, Chief Executive, Hong Kong, HSBC; and Mr. Wong Kam-sing, Secretary for the Environment of the HKSAR Government, opened the Programme’s plaque at the launch ceremony.

Group photo of “Living Water &amp; Community Revitalisation – An Agricultural-led Action, Engagement and Incubation Programme at Lai Chi Wo” launch ceremony



Guided tour explaining the Lai Chi Wo revitalization programme

The first exhibition of Lai Chi Wo - "Traditional Rice Farming" and the eye-catching zoetrope made by a local carpenter.



