[title]The Law and Technology Centre of The University of Hong Kong Launches its First Legal Information Website for Young People in Hong Kong –Youth CLIC (youth.clic.org.hk)[/title]
[date]31 Mar 2012[/date]
 
"I asked a girl under 16 years old to touch my private parts. She agreed to do it but I didn't touch her. Is that a crime?"
"I've logged into my boyfriend's email account and read his emails secretly. Is it illegal?"
"Does it constitute assault if there were no fists and kicks?"
"I've joined a drug party in the Mainland and brought some dangerous drugs back to Hong Kong. The drugs were sold to my friends. What penalties am I facing?"
These questions may be frequently asked by young people in Hong Kong. Where can they find the answers?
The Law and Technology Centre of The University of Hong Kong will set up its first legal information website specially designed for young people in Hong Kong. Sponsored by the Home Affairs Bureau of the HKSAR Government, Youth CLIC website (youth.clic.org.hk) will be launched on Sunday 1st April 2012. The bilingual website provides free legal information on more than 60 offences and legal issues concerning young people. Topics covered by Youth CLIC are divided into four groups:
1. crimes relating to prostitution, child pornography and other unlawful sexual activities;
2. intellectual property offences and crimes on the Internet;
3. school bullying, violence offences and triad-related offences;
4. theft, shoplifting, burglary and drug offences.
More than 20 videos will be shown via Youth CLIC to illustrate different crime scenarios based on true cases. Answers to the questions posed in the videos are written by legal experts. The relevant laws and legal concepts are explained in plain language.
Besides the website (youth.clic.org.hk), Youth CLIC has set up a channel in Youtube and a page in Facebook to enhance interaction with young people.
Some basic information about Youth CLIC:
Launching date: Sunday 1st April 2012
Website: youth.clic.org.hk
Youtube channel: www.youtube.com/YouthCLIC
Facebook page: www.facebook.com/YouthCLIC
Should you have further inquiries, please contact our Content Editor, Ms. Jessica Wu at 2219-4236 or 9480-9911.
About the Law and Technology Centre (http://www.lawtech.hk/)      
The Law and Technology Centre (LawTech Centre), established in 2001, is a joint Centre of the Faculty of Law and the Department of Computer Science at The University of Hong Kong. The Centre is managed by a committee headed by two co-directors, Dr. Kevin K. H. Pun from the Computer Science Department, and Dr. Anne Cheung from the Law Department.
With a view to promoting and supporting the rule of law in Hong Kong, the Centre has long been committed to serving the community by making legal information available on the Internet free access by the public. In 2002, it launched the "Hong Kong Legal Information Institute" (HKLII) at http://www.hklii.hk/ offering primary legal information relating to Hong Kong, including legislation, regulations, case law, practice directions and law reform reports.
Currently, HKLII attracts about 2,400 visitors per day.
About the CLIC Project (http://www.clic.org.hk/)
With funding assistance and substantial contribution by the Department of Justice of HKSAR Government, in 2007, the LawTech Centre launched the "Community Legal Information Centre" (CLIC) at http://www.clic.org.hk/ specifically catered for people with no legal background. It provides basic information on more than 20 legal topics that have most interest and direct bearing on the daily lives of ordinary citizens in Hong Kong. The topics include employment disputes, landlord and tenant, personal injuries, protection for investors and structured products, matrimonial matters, etc.
CLIC is a quick Internet guide for the general public to find relevant legal information in Hong Kong. It aims to help citizens acquire a basic understanding of the relevant law before seeking advice from lawyers, and to inform the general public about where to seek free or subsidized legal assistance.
The average number of visitors for CLIC is about 1,500 per day.
