[title]Two HKU Professors receive Outstanding Women Professionals Awards[/title]
[date]02 Jul 2008[/date]
 
Two Professors of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) are to receive Outstanding Women Professionals Awards. They are Professor Vivian Yam Wing-Wah, Chair Professor in Chemistry, and Professor Karen Lam Siu-Ling, Rosie T T Young Professor in Endocrinology and Metabolism. The award presentation ceremony will be held on July 8 Professor Yam and Professor Lam were two of the six women honoured by the Hong Kong Women Professional and Entrepreneurs Association. Three other successful women were awarded Outstanding Women Entrepreneurs Awards. The awards are granted every three years by the Association since 1999. In previous years, HKU's medical gurus Professor Rosie Young, Professor Felice Lieh Mak and Professor Grace Tang were also award recipients.
Professor Yam is a world-renowned scientist specializing in inorganic / organometallic syntheses and photochemistry. Her team has designed and synthesized many new molecular functional materials that have promising optical, charge separation and light-emitting properties. Her research works in luminescent and light-absorbing materials, solar energy conversion, chemosensors and biosensors could have great impact on the development of clean renewable sources of energy, energy-efficient solid-state lighting, and environmental and sustainable developments. Her impressive research contributions to inorganic / organometallic chemistry and commitment in nurturing young scientists have gained her many awards in local and international arena. She was elected Member of the prestigious Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2001, the youngest scientist to be elected at that time.
Professor Yam felt greatly honoured for receiving the award. She said the award had special meaning for her, and was more than just an addition to her laurels.
"I am a firm believer that regardless of one's gender or ethnics or other backgrounds, as long as one has the passion, dedication and determination to pursue research wholeheartedly, one can excel and produce results of world-class quality.
"Yet I also recognize that many young women, especially those in their formative years in schools, are still worried about the barriers they might face in their career posed by possible gender stigmas in Hong Kong - a society, albeit globalised, but conventional or even biased Chinese values still prevail. I hope that more successful stories of women in our society would encourage our young women to dare to pursue their dreams," said Professor Yam.
Professor Lam is also chair professor and head of the Department of Medicine at HKU. She is internationally renowned for her outstanding achievements in applied biomedical research and, under her leadership, her research team at HKU has discovered several new hormones, which have opened up novel strategies for the prediction, prevention, and treatment of diabetes and obesity. In 2005, she became the first female at HKU to receive an endowed professorship and in 2007 became the first woman to head the Department of Medicine. As chief of endocrinology at the Queen Mary Hospital, Professor Lam pioneered structured training in endocrinology and diabetes for doctors in Hong Kong and the Mainland China. She also played a key role in setting standards for these specialties in Hong Kong. In 1994, she founded the KK Leung Diabetes Centre at the hospital -- the first centre to Hong Kong to provide comprehensive diabetes care and patient education.
Professor Lam felt most delighted for receiving the Award.
"There is now a global trend for women to take a leading role in various professions. I am pleased to have the opportunity to be part of this world trend," said Professor Lam.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said he was delighted that Professors Yam and Lam won the awards.
"Both professors are highly regarded academics, dedicated scientists and respected teachers. They have made tremendous contributions to the University's the academic and research development. They are both also loyal HKU alumnae who have shown great commitment to their alma mater. The University is proud of their achievements and privileged to have these outstanding women professionals in the HKU Family," said Professor Tsui.
For enquiries please contact Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
Professor Vivian Yam Wing-Wah
Professor Karen Lam Siu-Ling

