[title]Professor Tony Fung elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science[/title]
[date]04 Mar 2012[/date]
 
Professor Tong Fung Wing Kam, Chair Professor of the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), has been named a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
As part of the Section on Statistics, Professor Fung was elected by the AAAS Council for his significant contributions to statistical DNA forensics, robust statistics, professional services, dissemination of statistical knowledge.
In 2011, 539 AAAS members were elected as Fellows because of their scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science or its applications. They received the award at the AAAS Fellows Forum held in Canada in February 2012. 
Professor Tony Fung Wing Kam
Professor Fung is Chair Professor of the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science of the University of Hong Kong. He is a fellow of American Statistical Association and Institute of Mathematical Statistics. He was recipient of the prestigious Croucher Senior Research Fellowship in 2008. His research interests include statistical diagnostics, robustness, longitudinal data analysis, DNA profiling, forensic statistics and genetic epidemiology.
About the American Association for the Advancement of Science
The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) is the world's largest general scientific society, and publisher of the journal, Science (http://www.sciencemag.org/) as well as Science Translational Medicine (http://www.sciencetranslationalmedicine.org/) and Science Signaling (http://www.sciencesignaling.org/). AAAS was founded in 1848, and includes 262 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10 million individuals. Science has the largest paid circulation of any peer-reviewed general science journal in the world, with an estimated total readership of 1 million. The non-profit AAAS (http://www.aaas.org/) is open to all and fulfills its mission to "advance science and serve society" through initiatives in science policy, international programs, science education, and more.
About HKU 
Founded in 1911, HKU is Hong Kong's oldest university, with a long heritage of academic excellence and service to the community. Today, HKU is a world-class comprehensive research-led university, with close to a hundred of its faculty ranked by the Institute for Scientific Information as being among the world's top 1% of scientists.
With a strong international outlook and a tradition of English language instruction, HKU attracts the best academic staff and the brightest students from the territory and around the world. The University is committed to nurturing talent and leaders for both the local and global community and to cultivating internationalism on campus. We strongly support international academic collaboration, and staff and student exchanges at all levels, with over 400 higher education institutions.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, tel: 852 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk; or Ms Melanie Wan, Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, tel: 852 2859 2600 email:melwkwan@hku.hk
