[title]HKU Civil Engineering and Computer Science Soars to Top Ten in 
2013 QS University Subject Rankings in Engineering &amp; Technology
[/title]
[date]08 May 2013[/date]
 
HKU Civil Engineering and Computer Science have been ranked No. 8 and No.10 respectively in 2013 QS University Subject Rankings in Engineering &amp; Technology, announced on May 8, 2013.
Our position in these two subjects has demonstrated an impressive jump from last year. The rise of HKU Civil Engineering from 14th to 8th and that of Computer Science from 22nd to 10th this year in the same exercise can be regarded as an acknowledgement of Departmental ongoing commitment to teaching and research excellence.
Professor S.C. Wong, Head of Civil Engineering, said: “I am very pleased to learn that our Department has been ranked 8th globally under the QS University Subject Rankings 2013 in the subject area of Civil Engineering. We would like to express our appreciation to the peer recognition given to us in the evaluation.  This positive result will encourage all of our staff to keep up the good work and act as an impetus for us to always strive for the best in our work in the future.”
Professor W. Wang, Head of Computer Science, said: “I am very pleased to learn the good news that our department receives excellent global ranking by QS this year, which is a due recognition of our relentless pursuit of excellence in teaching and research at the highest level. All my colleagues appreciate the recognition and they deserve it with their hard work all along.  We are proud of our achievements and also clear that our motivation goes beyond merely going after good ranking, because our colleagues at HKU Computer Science Department are driven by nothing but our commitment to conducting first-rate research and providing world-class education for knowledge discovery and technology advancement. ”
The annual QS World University Rankings by Subject is a comprehensive guide to a range of popular subject areas. The rankings series reveals the top 200 universities in the world for 30 individual subjects. For further information, please visit: http://www.topuniversities.com/subject-rankings  .
For enquiries please contact Ms Jolly Li, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2241 5953 / E-mail: jollyli@hku.hk ).

