[title]HKU to conclude the Centennial Campus Roving Exhibition &amp; Lecture Series[/title]
[date]28 Nov 2008[/date]
 


To prepare for the upcoming ‘3+3+4' new senior secondary academic structure, and lay a solid foundation for the University in becoming the world's top-notch tertiary institution, HKU will build the Centennial Campus at the west of the Main Campus. To facilitate the understanding of the public on the new campus, the Centennial Campus Roving Exhibition has been held at the Pacific Place, the Olympian City and the Harbour City since August 2008. 
The final round of exhibition was successfully held at the Hong Kong Central Library, from 26 to 28 November. Two public lectures on greening and historical buildings were held at the Central Library, delivered by renowned HKU professors, namely, Professor CY Jim, Chair Professor of the Department of Geography, and Professor David Lung, Professor of the Department of Architecture. 
Resembling a time tunnel and by showcasing valuable photos and videos, the exhibition walked visitors through HKU's 100 years of history and enabled them to envisage a even brighter future of the University.  A variety of multimedia tools were deployed to present the futuristic design of the new campus, including videos, models, interactive games and exhibition panels. 
At his lecture entitled Green roofs and green walls for schools, Professor CY Jim said, "A campus with green roofs and walls would not only protect the environment, but also enhance the mental and physical health of students and teachers.  More green roofs and green walls in the society would boost the morale and productivity of workers, and thereby generate economic benefits." 
At his lecture on the Revitalization of historical buildings, Professor David Lung said, "Heritage conservation is not only about protecting the historical buildings.  The stories behind and the meanings attached to these buildings are more important and therefore public participation is essential. In recent years, engagement meetings are held to seek views from stakeholders of development projects, including the HKU Centennial Campus development." 
The construction of the Centennial Campus will commence in the second half of 2009. It will be completed in 2012 for the implementation of the ‘3+3+4' new academic structure in September 2012. 
For media enquiries, please contact Mr. Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations) of the External Relations Office, at 2857-8555 or 9188-0219. 

 


“More green roofs and green walls in the society would boost the morale and productivity of workers, and thereby generate economic benefits.” Professor CY Jim said
 
Professor David Lung said, “Heritage conservation is not only about protecting the historical buildings.The stories behind and the meanings attached to these buildings are more important and therefore public participation is essential.”

Visitors are interested in the detailed design of the new campus.
 
The two lectures held on 27 and 28 November were well received by the audience.
 
 
 
