[title]HKU Medical Faculty holds the Faculty Graduation and Prize Presentation Ceremony 2011[/title]
[date]28 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The Faculty Graduation and Prize Presentation Ceremony 2011 for the University of Hong Kong (HKU) Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine was successfully held today (November 28) at the Queen Elizabeth Stadium to confer degrees on a total of 777 graduands this year.
The Ceremony was a memorable occasion for the Faculty's graduands to celebrate their joy and achievements with their fellow classmates, teachers and family members.  It also marked the conclusion of an important milestone in their study life, as well as the start of a new chapter in their life-long professional endeavour.  This year, 94 of the graduands are at the doctoral level, 264 are at the master level and 419 are at the bachelor level.
At the same occasion, the Faculty presented the Faculty Teaching Medal, Outstanding Research Output Award and the Knowledge Exchange Award to the selected Faculty members.  On the other hand, a total of 28 prizes were presented to the graduands who achieved outstanding performance in different study areas.
HKU Acting Vice Chancellor, Professor Roland CHIN officiated at the Ceremony and the Faculty was most delighted to have Professor LUNGYing-tai to be the Guest of Honour.
Professor LUNG is highly respected internationally for her achievements in literature and dedication to cultural development.  Professor LUNG has published over 20 titles in Chinese and her essays in other languages have appeared in European newspapers such as the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.  Professor LUNG was appointed as the Cultural Minister of Taipei from 1999 to 2003 and made great contributions to the development of the contemporary culture in Taiwan and even Greater China.  Professor LUNG joined HKU Journalism and Media Studies Centre in 2004.  In 2005, she established the LUNG Ying-Tai Cultural Foundation in support of literary and artistic endeavours as well as academic lectures.  Since 2008, Professor LUNG has been undertaking the position of Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities of HKU.  As a renowned essayist and cultural critic, Professor LUNG is considered as one of the most influential writers in the global Chinese language world.

 
Professor LUNG Ying-tai delivered an address to the medical Faculty's graduands.
 
Professor LUNG Ying-tai encouraged the graduands to spend more thoughts on where they have come from and where they may choose to go.
 
A graduate representative presented a souvenir to Professor LUNG on behalf of the Faculty.
 
(From left) Professor Roland CHIN, Acting Vice-Chancellor of HKU; Professor LUNG Ying-tai, guest of honour; Professor Paul TAM Kwong-hang, Pro-Vice Chancellor, HKU; Prof LEE Sum-ping, Dean of Medicine, HKU.


