[title]University Artists Scheme: Filmmaker Mr Peter Ho Sun Chan Discusses his Latest Film WU XIA with Cultural Columnist Dr Ma Ka Fai[/title]
[date]30 Sep 2011[/date]
 
Filmmaker Mr Peter Ho Sun Chan discussed his latest film WU XIA with cultural columnist Dr Ma Ka Fai at a forum held today (September 30) at the University of Hong Kong (HKU). The forum, held as part of the University Artists Scheme, was an opportunity for members of the HKU community as well as the general public to engage with one of Hong Kong's most acclaimed directors. It was moderated by Dr Esther M. K. Cheung of the Department of Comparative Literature.
Mr Peter Chan described WU XIA as providing a fresh take on the martial arts genre through its incorporation of psychological elements. Indeed, the film follows a martial arts expert whose attempts to start a new, more tranquil life are undermined by a determined detective and, initially, focuses more on dramatic elements than action scenes. Dr Ma Ka Fai also highlighted the Filmmaker's different approach to the Wu Xia genre, and discussed the way in which the audience was led inside the characters' heads to share their conflicted thoughts on the nature of humanity.
During his welcoming speech, HKU Dean of Arts, Professor Kam Louie, expressed his gratitude to University Artist Mr Peter Chan and his company, WE Distribution, for allowing HKU to hold a free screening of WU XIA before the forum. He also thanked Donor Mr Daniel Chan, whose generous support of the University Artists Scheme (UAS) made the event possible.
About the University Artists Scheme (UAS)
The University Artists Scheme was officially launched in 2008 and is the first programme of its kind to be held at HKU. The Scheme brings artists of international calibre to the campus, to share their knowledge with and enrich the lives of students, staff and the community.
The University Artists Scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts, HKU, and supported by Daniel Chan Fund.
Media enquiries, please contact: Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Arts Faculty, HKU (Tel: 2859 8048, email: kpmak@hku.hk) or Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk)


 
Mr Daniel Chan, donor of the University Artists Scheme and Filmmaker Peter Ho Sun Chan
 
Cultural columnist Dr Ma Ka Fai, Dr Esther Cheung, Associate Professor of Department of Comparative Literature and Filmmaker Peter Ho Sun Chan
 
From left to right: Professor Kam Louie, Dean of Arts, Cultural Columnist Dr Ma Ka Fai, Filmmaker Peter Chan, and Mr Daniel Chan, donor of HKU University Artists Scheme



