[title]HKU Main Website Wins Top Honours at the 2013 Interactive Media Awards[/title]
[date]05 Dec 2013[/date]
 
 
HKU Main Website wins Best in Class top honours in the Interactive Media Awards.
The University of Hong Kong’s main website www.hku.hk has received the “Best in Class Award” in the Interactive Media AwardsTM 2013.
The Interactive Media AwardsTM (IMA) is an international awards competition recognizing excellence in web design, development, marketing and innovation. 
The Best in Class award (480-500 marks) is the highest honour given by the Interactive Media Awards. It represents the very best in planning, execution and overall professionalism. The winner of this award will have excelled in all areas of the judging criteria and achieved a perfect, or near perfect, overall score. The winning site therefore represents the highest standards of professionalism, standards compliance and impeccable planning and execution.
There were a total of 105 entries submitted in the 'University' category in the 2013 award year and the HKU main website was scored as follows:
Design: 96
Content: 100
Feature Functionality: 99
Usability: 93
Standards Compliance: 97
------------------------------------------------------
Total: 485
The University of Hong Kong’s main website obtained full marks for its content. The current version of the website was launched in June 2012. It has adopted an “interactive and organic” approach in design:  mobile device users can simply touch the screen and flip the “flip boards” on the homepage for easy access to website content. Moreover, the “flip boards” are “expandable” to highlight featured contents, and most Information is just one-click away by mousing over the top dynamic menu.
The website also won the “Gold Award” in the first Web Accessibility Recognition Scheme 2012-2013, co-organized by the Office of the Government Chief Information Officer and the Equal Opportunities Commission. The design is in line with the University’s aim to contribute to a caring and inclusive society by making its website more accessible and friendly to different members of the community.
For details about the Interactive Media AwardsTM, please refer to the website at:
https://www.interactivemediaawards.com/aboutus/
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk ; or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2857 8555 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk  .


