[title]Mr Frederick Ma Appointed as Honorary Professor in the School of Economics and Finance of the University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]21 Oct 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Business and Economics is proud to announce the appointment of Mr. Frederick S. H. Ma, former Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development and former Secretary of Financial Services and the Treasury, as Honorary Professor in the School of Economics and Finance.  Mr. Ma's appointment commences on October 20, 2008, for a five-year term.
Professor Gary Biddle, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Business and Economics said, "Mr. Ma is not only well recognized for his success in and contributions to the private sector and the HKSAR Government, he is also an important player in terms of economic and financial development between Hong Kong and China.  I am privileged to welcome Mr. Ma to the School of Economics and Finance so that he can share his expertise with us in developing cutting-edge programmes and provide students with a balanced perspective and insights on the various economic issues that arise everyday." 
An inaugural lecture for Mr. Ma will be held in early 2009 for the benefit of the University and the community.
In response to his appointment, Mr. Ma said, "I am delighted with this appointment, as it gives me exciting opportunities to meet future leaders in the economics and finance disciplines.  I am particularly looking forward to sharing my practical experience in the private and public sectors with HKU students, and regard this appointment as an opportunity for me to contribute to the University I graduated from and highly respect."
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong's (HKU) Faculty of Business and Economics offers a full range of Bachelors degree programmes and Masters programmes (including EMBA-Global Asia, full- and part-time MBA, International MBA, Master of Economics, and Master of Finance), plus PhD degree and non-degree open enrollment and customized Executive Education programmes.
Bachelor's degree programmes attract top students from Hong Kong and the region, with four ranking among HKU's top ten programmes in terms of average JUPAS entry scores (2008-09). More than 30% of HKU's elite students admitted via the "Early Admission Students" (2008) choose the Faculty's programmes. 
The full-time MBA programme, offered in partnership with Columbia Business School and London Business School, is ranked 58th among the world's top MBA programmes by the Economist Intelligence Unit (2008).  The International MBA offered in collaboration with Fudan University in Shanghai has twice been ranked "best of its kind" in Mainland China by the Academic Degrees Committee of the China State Council.
The research excellence has enabled HKU to assume the position of the most successful university in Hong Kong in terms of securing competitive research funding from the Research Grants Council (RGC). 
(For more information, visit:- www.fbe.hku.hk)
For further information please contact:
Susan Leung
Director of PR &amp; Marketing
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
+852 2219 4466
leungsue@hku.hk
Amy Wong
Assistant Director of PR
Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
+852 2219 4461
amysw.wong@hku.hk
