[title]HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui decides not to seek re-appointment Council to discuss the search process for successor[/title]
[date]25 Oct 2011[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) at its meeting today (October 25) was informed of Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui's decision not to seek re-appointment when his contract ends on 31 August 2012.
In a letter to the Council Chairman Dr Leong Che-hung, Professor Tsui announced his intention of not seeking re-appointment: "Over the past century, the University has seen many changes and it has grown and developed with the times. I believe the University is well positioned for future opportunities and challenges, and, it will be a healthy evolution to see the next Vice Chancellor bring in fresh ideas and perspectives."
Professor Tsui was appointed as HKU's 14th Vice-Chancellor since 1 September 2002 and will have served two terms by 2012. His biography can be found in http://www.hku.hk/vcoffice/menu/vc-smt.htm
Professor Tsui further said: "I am particularly fortunate to have around me a group of highly dedicated and hardworking colleagues, faculty and administrators, who have devoted a lot to the University. They have my total respect. I am proud of what we have been able to accomplish together."
Dr Leong, on behalf of the Council, thanked Professor Tsui's dedicated and selfless contributions to the University over the past nine years, which has brought HKU to new heights of academic excellence and international renown as one of the world's leading institutions of higher learning. "While we are all saddened by Professor Tsui's decision to leave, we deeply appreciate his contributions to this University." Dr Leong said.
The Council will discuss in a meeting later the search process for the next Vice-Chancellor and the arrangements for the transition period.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
