[title]HKU Education Professor Frederick Leung receives the Hans Freudenthal Medal for 2013[/title]
[date]28 Nov 2013[/date]
 

Professor Frederick Leung Koon Shing, Professor of the Faculty of Education of the University of Hong Kong, has been awarded the Hans Freudenthal Medal for 2013 by the International Commission on Mathematical Instruction (ICMI).
Professor Leung is the first Asian scholar awarded the Hans Freudenthal Medal, which is the highest international accolade in mathematics education. The award has been given in each of the odd numbered year since 2003 to a distinguished scholar in recognition of his/her long time contribution in the research of a major cumulative programme in mathematics education.
The award has been given to Professor Leung in recognition of his distinguished research in the areas of comparative studies of mathematics education and the influence of the Eastern and Western cultures on teaching and learning of mathematics. In the citation for Professor Leung, it was said that “His groundbreaking work, for which he is internationally known, is the utilization of the perspective of the Confucian Heritage Culture to explain the superior mathematics achievement of East Asian students in international studies.” The citation further said Professor Leung’s work “has opened up a new dimension of looking at differences in mathematics achievement and classroom practices from the perspective of culture.  His outstanding achievement in research, his contribution to mathematics education in the East Asian region, and his promotion of understanding between mathematics education communities in East Asian and western countries attest to the merit of Frederick Leung’s receiving the Hans Freudenthal Medal for 2013.”

Professor Leung has contributed to global mathematics education through his participation in the “Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS)” since 1995 as the Principal Investigator.  His research and long term field work in mathematics education in different countries of different cultures has helped foster understanding of the advantages and competitiveness of Hong Kong’s mathematics education in a global perspective.
Professor Leung was a typical local student receiving his education in Hong Kong until a masters degree. He was born in a traditional Chinese family and has been deeply influenced by the doctrines of Confucianism. When he pursued his PhD studies in the United Kingdom, he developed great curiosity and interest in the difference in Eastern and Western cultures on teaching and learning, in particular in mathematics education.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui congratulated Professor Leung for his outstanding achievements, and that his distinguished research in mathematics education has brought international prestige to the University, to Hong Kong, and to the education community in Asia.
Professor Leung felt deeply honoured by the award, he said: “This is not only an honour of myself as an individual, but a recognition of the achievement in educational research of scholars from Hong Kong, China and the Asian region”. 
ICMI is an international non-governmental and non-profit-making scientific organization whose purpose is to promote international cooperation in mathematics education.  In 2000, ICMI decided to create two prizes recognising outstanding achievement in mathematics education research.  The Felix Klein Award honours a lifetime achievement and the Hans Freudenthal Award recognizes a major cumulative programme of research.  The previous Freudenthal recipients are Professor Celia Hoyles (the United Kingdom; 2003), Professor Paul Cobb (the United States; 2005), Professor Anna Sfard (Israel; 2007), Professor Yves Chevallard (France; 2009) and Professor Luis Radford (Canada; 2011).
Professor Leung’s citation and ICMI’s announcement of the award: http://www.mathunion.org/icmi/news/details/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=860&amp;cHash=7ab3e539bc9d2a2ea8757d8986d9b1cc
ICMI: http://www.mathunion.org/icmi/home
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Queenie Wong, Senior Manager (Development and Communications), Faculty of Education (Tel.: 2219 4270 / Mobile: 9220 5840 / Email: qlpwong@hku.hk); or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office (Tel.: 2859 2606 / Email: pychoy@hku.hk). 






