[title]Greening of Industry Network (GIN) Conference 2004 (Press Invitation)[/title]
[date]04 Nov 2004[/date]
 
The 12th International Conference of The Greening of Industry Network will officially open at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre on Monday the 8th of November.
The Greening of Industry Network (GIN) Conference is an annual event that brings together industry experts and stakeholders from different backgrounds to discuss the latest developments in environmental management and sustainable development.The theme of this year's conference, only the second to be held in Asia, is 'Partnerships for Sustainable Development'. Features will include keynote speeches, plenary debates, breakout sessions, research paper workshops and poster presentations.
This is a major international conference and an important opportunity for Hong Kong companies to learn about current approaches to building more sustainable industrial practices through partnerships between companies, regulators, NGOs and other stakeholders. With delegates from more than 40 countries it also provides an excellent opportunity to network with international experts from around the world.
The launching ceremony, at 09:00 am, runs as follows:
Welcome Speech: 
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor, the University of Hong Kong
Opening Address:
Mr KK Kwok, Permanent Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works, HKSAR Government
Keynote Speeches:
Philip Gaffney, Managing Director, Operations and Business Development, MTR Corporation
Jan van Heeswijk, Director General of the Regional and Sustainable Development Department, Asian Development Bank (ADB)
Greg Dorey, Deputy Head of Mission and Deputy Consul-General (Political/Economic) British Consulate-General, Hong Kong
Speakers will be available to answer press questions following the opening ceremony during a tea break running from 10:30 – 11:00 am.
Highlights of the four-day event include:
Monday 8th November, 11.00 – 12:30
Asian Development Bank workshop, featuring presentations by Dr. David Annandale, Head, School of Environmental Science, Murdoch University, titled: Why Asia's Corporations Should Improve Environmental Performance? and Mr. Albert Fry, Program Manager, World Business Council for Sustainable Development, titled: What Emerging Opportunities Does the Environment Offer Asia's Corporation?
Monday 8th November 13:30 – 15:00
CSR-Asia workshop, featuring presentations by Dr Richard Welford, Deputy Director, Corporate Environmental Governance Programme (CEGP), University of Hong Kong, and Dr Stephen Frost, Associate Professor, South East Asia Research Center (SEARC), City University of Hong Kong, on current Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) issues and developments in the Asia-Pacific region.
Monday 8th November 15:30 – 17:00
CSR workshop, featuring a presentation by Lisa Coory, Regional Communications Manager, Philip Morris Asia, titled: Can a tobacco company be socially responsible?
Tuesday 9th November 11:00 – 12:30
Sustainable Construction Panel Discussion, hosted by Dr Christine Loh, CEO, Civic Exchange.
For a full timetable visit the conference website at http://www.hku.hk/gin2004.
Entrance to the event is free for media representatives but you are required to register your attendance in advance by contacting:
Jonathan Hills
Email: jhills@hkucc.hku.hk
Tel: 2857 8641
Fax: 2559 0468
GIN 2004 is supported by JETS Technics, Asian Development Bank, MTR Corporation, Baker Hughes, Exxon Mobil, Shell Hong Kong, British Consulate-General Hong Kong, Hong Kong Electric, KCRC and Swire Group.
 
