[title]Establishment of the EE72 K.M. Yung Scholarship for HKU Electrical and Electronic Engineering Students[/title]
[date]18 Oct 2007[/date]
 


Picture 1

With a donation made by the family, friends, colleagues and fellow engineers of Mr. Yung Kai Man, The University of Hong Kong (HKU) announced the establishment of the EE72 K.M. Yung Scholarship (香港大學七二年電機工程系容啟民獎學金).
The scholarship was established after Mr. Yung Kai Man's sudden death on October 4, 2007 by Mr. Yung's family and friends.
Mr. Yung graduated in 1972 from the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (then called Department of Electrical Engineering) of HKU. He was the Manager-Asset Management at the CLP Power Co. Ltd., Chairman of the HKIE's Electrical Division, and a regular participant in various trail walking events in aid of the Oxfam. 
The cheque presentation ceremony was held at HKU today (October 18,  2007). On behalf of the University, Dr. Y. S. Hung, the Head of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, received the donation amount of over HK$500,000 from Mr. Alex Lam, a representative of Mr. Yung's family, in the presence of friends and colleagues of Mr Yung. The acting Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and members of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering were also present at the ceremony.
The donation will go towards the EE72 K.M. Yung Scholarship in accordance with the wish of Mr. Yung's family to commemorate this much respected and admired engineer.  On behalf of Mr. Yung's family, Mr. Lam thanked all the relatives and friends of Mr. Yung in contributing towards this scholarship which was established in memory of Mr. Yung and in continuance of Mr. Yung's philanthropic work.  Mr. Lam said that the idea of the scholarship came from the children of Mr. Yung, which was strongly encouraged and supported by Mrs. Yung and other family members.  
In receiving the donation, Dr. Hung remarked that Mr. Yung has been respected by friends and colleagues alike as a leader and mentor who was always supportive of the growth and development of the younger generation. The scholarship program will be established in the spirit of Mr. Yung as a mentor to foster growth and development of students in the Department.
Photo Caption:
Mr. Alex Lam, representative of Mr. Yung's family, (left) presenting donation to  Dr. Y.S. Hung, head of Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering

