[title]HKU to Kick Start Project WATERMAN – A Water Quality Forecast and Management System for Hong Kong[/title]
[date]29 Apr 2009[/date]
 
The Department of Civil Engineering and the Department of Computer Science of HKU jointly present a Launching Ceremony today (April 29, 2009) to officially kick-start the Project WATERMAN - "A Water Quality Forecast and Management System for Hong Kong", a 3-year project funded by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.
The Launching Ceremony was officiated by Mr. William Y. Yiu, Executive Director, Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Ms. Anissa Sean-Yee Wong, Permanent Secretary for the Environment / Director of Environmental Protection of HKSAR Government, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of HKU and Professor Joseph Hun-Wei Lee, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President of HKU and the Principal Investigator of Project WATERMAN.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor and President of HKU was pleased to see "the launch of a system like WATERMAN that will help assess the quality of Hong Kong waters quickly". In his welcoming speech, he noted that WATERMAN was a joint project between the two HKU departments, which was "a solid example of the positive benefits that can come from interdisciplinary collaboration".
Mr. William Y. Yiu, Executive Director, Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club hoped that this innovative knowledge base would help the general public better understand the quality of water around us, and engage the public in meaningful discussion of events that could possibly impact the water quality. "As the funder, we hope this project can, in the longer term, contribute towards protecting public health and raising public awareness on conservation of our water environment."
Ms. Anissa Sean-Yee Wong, Permanent Secretary for the Environment / Director of Environmental Protection of HKSAR Government, said that the Government attaches great importance to the achievement of better water quality for Hong Kong and the development of an advanced water quality monitoring, forecast and management system is essential for achieving this policy goal. She welcomed the WATERMAN project, which is a project of HKU with participation of a number of Government departments in the study. She said the project would enhance Hong Kong's water quality management capability and facilitate better public understanding of the complex water quality impacts of major developments.
Professor Joseph Hun-Wei Lee, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President of HKU and the Principal Investigator of Project WATERMAN gave a brief introduction to the project, which was a great opportunity to translate what had been learnt from the research studies into practice to benefit the society. Data and knowledge integration between the HKU departments and the government departments is a key to this project. The WATERMAN system will enhance the water quality management standard of our world city, Hong Kong; the deliverables from the Project will also be beneficial to environmental education.
WATERMAN is a joint venture of the Croucher Laboratory of Environmental Hydraulics and the Department of Computer Science of HKU. The Project aims to develop an innovative environmental knowledge base for all of Hong Kong's waters including four major components: (1) Beach water quality forecast system; (2) Fisheries management system; (3) 3D Environmental Impact Assessment system; and (4) Educational platform. 
For further information of Project WATERMAN, please visit the web site at http://www.waterman.hku.hk . 

