[title]HKU holds Inauguration Ceremony for New Students 2015[/title]
[date]26 Aug 2015[/date]
 

HKU Inauguration Ceremony for new students 2015
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (August 26) held an inauguration ceremony to welcome its new students. Over 3,600 new undergraduate students were admitted into the various programmes this academic year.
HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson welcomed and congratulated students for earning themselves the opportunity to study at HKU. He referred to the fierce competition among students for places at the University: over 47,000 people applied, between 12 and 13 applications for every available place. For those from the Mainland, the competition was even stiffer at 31 applications for every place available.
Professor Mathieson said: “We have high standards and the university’s future depends upon our continuing ability to attract the brightest and best students to work with our outstanding staff from all over the world.”

HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson
Professor Mathieson reminded students of the core values and principles upheld by HKU. He said: “The cornerstones of a University are institutional autonomy and academic freedom, including freedom of thought, of speech, and of assembly. It must be a place where different opinions can be celebrated, debated and respected. It must be a place of liberty and diversity. It is with this freedom that academia can flourish with no bounds and no fear in pursuing ideals. It is with freedom that we, faculty and students alike, can create new knowledge and new ways of thinking.”
He added: “Of course, freedoms come with responsibilities. You will meet people who have very different views from your own. Their freedom of expression is just as important as yours and learning to respect this is a sign of maturity. “
(For the speech of Professor Mathieson at the ceremony, please click here.)

Inauguration Ceremony 2015
Professor John Leong Chi-yan, Chairman of the Hospital Authority, was the Guest of Honour. Other HKU members at the ceremony were Dean of Student Affairs Dr  Albert Chau Wai-lap, Chairman of Convocation Mr John Wan Chung-on and President of the Hong Kong University Students' Union Mr Billy Fung Jing-en.
For media enquiries, please contact the Communication and Public Affairs Office: Ms Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media), tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk; or Ms Rhea Leung Manager (Media), tel: 2857 8555 / email: rhea.leung@hku.hk)


