[title]Joint statement by HKU and Queen Mary Hospital on an article about the HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology[/title]
[date]18 Nov 2013[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and Queen Mary Hospital (QMH) have a joint statement to make in response to an article posted on a mainland news portal about HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology, and In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) procedures.  The joint statement is as follows:
The HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine discovered an article on a mainland news website called “Langfang News” (廊坊新聞網: http://www.lfnews.cn/viewnews-2975853.html ) during a regular media monitoring exercise on May 11, 2013, which may mislead readers into thinking that an agency called Good IVF Limited (香港好好孕醫療有限公司) provides assisted reproduction services in collaboration with HKU, QMH and the HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology.  An investigation was subsequently conducted and HKU, QMH and the HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology have all confirmed that they have no relationship with this agency.  
The article mentions that Good IVF Limited set up an out-patient clinic to provide treatment for male infertility problems by doctors from the Urology Division of QMH.  It alleges to have collaborated with QMH geneticists and HKU’s Department of Medicine to provide genetic tests and pre-implantation genetic diagnosis.  Additionally, the agency is described as one of the founders of the first “Psychological Counseling Centre of Assisted Reproduction” (輔助生育心理輔導中心) and the “Centre for Human Reproduction of The University of Hong Kong” (香港大學人類生殖中心), together with Departments of Anatomy, Physiology, Urology and Paediatrics of the HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, the Faculty of Law and the Department of Social Work and Social Administration.  These Centres were depicted as having been established for embryo transplantation to assist couples with infertility problems.  An inquiry by HKU confirmed that none of the above Centres actually exist.  HKU and QMH have not set up any Centres with the agency.
The news website also presents information about the “HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology”.  This Centre was set up jointly by HKU and QMH in 1986, to provide fertility treatments for couples and also to contribute to the areas of teaching and research.  In the article, the first person pronoun “we” was used very often.  This would certainly mislead the public into thinking that HKU and QMH had commercially collaborated with this agency.  An investigation proved that the Centre has no connection with Good IVF Limited.  
Furthermore, we found the information provided in a website related to Good IVF Limited misleading.  In the website (Appendix I), the “HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology” was referred to as their designated hospital, and one article about In Vitro Fertilization (Appendix II) claimed that this agency could refer patients to the Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU.  In fact, HKU and QMH have never had any collaboration with the said agency.  
HKU and QMH express concern over this case.  If members of the public suspect they have been deceived, please seek help from the police.
If you wish to verify information about the “HKU-QMH Centre of Assisted Reproduction and Embryology”, please visit the Centre’s website: http://www.obsgyn.hku.hk/ivftraditional09/homepage/homepage.htm, or e-mail to hkuivf@hku.hk. 

