[title]Hong Kong to Host Cluster 2003 - Promoting World-Class R&amp;D on Cluster and Grid Computing[/title]
[date]01 Dec 2003[/date]
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Systems (CSIS), The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is pleased to invite you to join The 2003 IEEE International Conference on Cluster Computing (Cluster 2003), a leading international conference for the world's experts in cluster and grid computing, which will be held on December 1-4 in Sheraton Hong Kong Hotel &amp; Towers, Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong.
Clusters have become an important element of mainstream computing today. The underlying technologies have been widely adopted in building scalable server farms, database systems, and high-performance platforms for scientific, industrial, and business computations. Computing grids, which join together resources including clusters at dispersed locations, promise to offer an inexhaustible source of computing power to the most demanding applications and users. Cluster 2003 will provide an open forum for researchers and system builders, as well as users, to present and discuss new directions and results that could shape the future of cluster and grid computing. The Conference this year features keynote addresses delivered by world-renowned researchers such as Mark Seager (Lawrence Livermore National Lab., USA), Kai Hwang (University of Southern California, USA), Thomas Coleman (Cornell University, USA), and Satoshi Sekiguchi (National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Japan). They will share valuable experiences and insights on designing clusters for financial engineering and scientific simulation, security enforcement issues, and integration of clusters and computing grids. Furthermore, there will be 48 technical papers presented by expert authors from around the world, which represent some of the latest R&amp;D efforts in this important field. 
Apart from the research community, Cluster 2003 has also attracted industry's active participation and support. The vender talk/exhibition sessions will feature some leading technology providers who will demonstrate the state-of-the-art clustering solutions. Participating companies include HP, Microsoft, IBM, Extreme Networks, Sun Microsystems, Dawning, Intel, Dell, Cluster File Systems, Linux Networx, Mellanox Technologies, and RackSaver.
Within just a few years, grid computing has become a hot topic in the IT world, which is often referred to as the "next-generation Internet." As a matter of fact, cluster and grid computing are intimately related since clustering is a cost-effective approach to providing high-performance computing resources, while grid technologies enable secure sharing of distributed resources, which further improve cost-effectiveness and system scalability. Cluster 2003 includes a number of technical papers that address key issues related to designing and integrating applications/middleware for computing grids. In addition, there will be a grid demo session to show the real benefits of grid computing.
In order to promote the adoption of grid technologies in Hong Kong, HKU and other local institutions have jointly established the Hong Kong Grid Initiative (HKGrid). The first mission of this joint effort is to build a territory-wide experimental computing grid, which can later be used to facilitate the development of grid applications/middleware for the local industry and institutions. The ultimate goal of HKGrid is to make grid computing work for Hong Kong so that the average citizen can tap its resources in a manner similar to obtaining electricity from a wall socket. In Cluster 2003, the HKGrid Initiative will be officially launched during the conference banquet. In addition, Zhiwei Xu of Chinese Academy of Sciences will also deliver a speech about the latest development of the China National Grid.
For more details of Cluster 2003, please refer to the official conference web site: http://www.csis.hku.hk/cluster2003/
and the online advance program:
http://www.csis.hku.hk/cluster2003/advance-program.html
Please contact Dr. Cho-li Wang (Tel: +852 28578458, email: clwang@csis.hku.hk) or Dr. Anthony Tam (Tel: +852 28597073, email: atctam@csis.hku.hk) for any enquires about the event.
About Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, HKU (http://www.csis.hku.hk):
The Department of Computer Science and Information Systems (CSIS) at The University of Hong Kong is committed to high-quality education and training of computing professionals at both the undergraduate and postgraduate level. At the undergraduate level, we offer five programmes, leading to the BSc(CSIS) degree, the BEng(SE) degree, the BEng(CE)1 degree, the BBA(IS)/BEng(SE)2 double degree and the BSc(BIOINF) respectively. At the postgraduate level, we offer an MSc(CS) and an MSc(ECom &amp; IComp)1 programme which are taught programmes based on coursework, and the research-based MPhil and PhD programmes.
The Department is active in research and development in a variety of areas including Internet and e-commerce, databases, parallel and distributed computing, pattern recognition, algorithms and complexity, computer graphics, multimedia, software engineering, statistical computing, and legal aspects of computing. Some of our research results have been applied to the development of real software and systems.
The Department was involved in pioneering to bring the Internet to Hong Kong and the setting up of the HARNET, the academic and research network for higher-education institutions in Hong Kong. The Department has applied advanced algorithmic techniques to make the 1083 telephone enquiry system a better system that now runs on UNIX servers for CSL HK Telecom. We saw a need for information security for the e-age and set up the Center for Information Security and Cryptography (CISC) to develop industrial-strength PKI software and toolkits for the Hong Kong community.
1Joint with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
2Joint with the School of Business
 
