[title]HKU – Citibank University Banking Course 2005-2006 Inauguration Ceremony[/title]
[date]06 Feb 2006[/date]
 
Citibank and the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today held the inauguration ceremony for "The University of Hong Kong –Citibank University Banking Course 2005-2006". The unprecedented banking course was first offered in the previous academic year targeting business and economics students of HKU. Having received overwhelming responses from students, the course is offered again this year as an annual program.Officiating guests include:Mr. T.C. Chan, Citigroup Country Officer, Hong Kong &amp; Head of Greater China, Citigroup Corporate and Investment Banking; Mr. Atul Malik, Country Business Manager, Citibank Global Consumer Group; Prof. Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU and Dr. Maurice Tse, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of HKU.
Funded by Citigroup Foundation and jointly organized by Citibank and HKU, the course is part of the Hong Kong Citigroup Financial Education Series and is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the modern banking operations and essential knowledge of banking practices, through both structured classroom lectures and interactive discussion with seasoned banking practitioners from Citibank.This year, more than 100 applications were received and after a rigorous selection process, fifty students were accepted to the course.
At the inauguration ceremony, Mr. T.C. Chan said: "As the leading financial services company in the world and as a responsible corporate citizen, Citibank is fully committed to financial education.Riding on last year's successful program, we are proud to offer again the Citibank University Banking Course to the university students in Hong Kong.We strongly believe that it is our responsibility to develop future leaders and equip our young people with valuable knowledge to sustain Hong Kong's leading position in the financial world."
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "The inaugural year proved a great success for this banking course, which was designed to help business and economics students at HKU understand modern banking operations and build their knowledge of essential banking practices.Our close collaboration with Citibank continues in the second offering of this course.HKU students will again be able to benefit from the personal experience of accomplished Citibank banking experts and their unique insights into the real world of banking.It is a collaboration that demonstrates our joint commitment to excellence and to the community."
Mr. Atul Malik firmly believed that Citibank's commitment to financial education has paid off in the community as the course for 2004-2005 was a tremendous success:"We hope that this course will give students not only a better understanding of the banking industry and its practices, but also a deeper appreciation of personal financial management so that they can become financially responsible individuals."
The University of Hong Kong – Citibank University Banking Course 2005-2006 is a 4-month intensive program with lectures from senior Citibankers and site-visit to a Citibank branch office, encompassing a wide and complete range of elements of the financial services industry.This year, three new modules, namely Research, Insurance and Consumer Finance, were added to the course curriculum in order to reflect the new development in retail banking.Course modules include:
Introduction of Consumer &amp; Investment Banking
Treasury Cycle
Risk Management
Consumer Finance
Career in Banking
Card Business
Wealth Management
Treasury Products
Deposit &amp; Loan Products
Investment Products
Investment Advisory
Insurance
Bank Marketing and Research
Citigroup's University Banking Course was first run in Taiwan in 1998 at the National Taiwan University.Citigroup now conducts similar banking courses in several other countries in the Asia Pacific region including mainland China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, and Singapore. The program aims to teach students in higher education the fundamentals of finance and banking, as well as helping to develop future leaders to understand complex financial issues.
About Citigroup
Citigroup (NYSE: C), the preeminent global financial services company has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, insurance, securities brokerage, and asset management. Major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Banamex, and Travelers Life and Annuity. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com 
 Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong
HKU's history and rich traditions complement a tremendous wealth of resources. It is one of the great centers of learning in Asia and attracts eminent scholars in every field. The Faculty of Business &amp; Economics prides itself on its tradition of academic excellence and innovation. Its organization with two schools -School of Business and School of Economics and Finance -combines the faculty and resources of a major research institution and the intimacy and personal attention of the integrated learning environment of a smaller school. 
The factors that most distinguish the University from other schools are its rich learning environment, the excellence and diversity of its faculty and students, the passion of its alumni for the faculty and what it stands for, and the breadth of its vision of leadership. 
For media enquiries, please contact Elsie Leung of HKU's External Relations Office at 2859 2600.
