[title]HKU 2012 – Talk on 4-Year Undergraduate Curriculum[/title]
[date]04 Apr 2011[/date]
 

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) will officially launch its new 4-year undergraduate curriculum in 2012.  Preparing for the new curriculum has been an opportunity for HKU to revitalize its programmes, while retaining its best traditions.  
The new curriculum will adopt a 'student-driven' approach to enable students to develop a rich programme of academic pursuits in various combinations of specialties and disciplines.  Curricular and co-curricular learning will be integrated through experiential, international and capstone learning experiences common to all undergraduate programmes. 
As exciting as the curriculum reform is for the University, it also brings with it many pressing questions from students, parents and schools.  To help them learn more about what the new curriculum involves, the Academic Liaison Section of the Registry has held a series of events entitled: ‘HKU 2012 - Talk on 4-Year Undergraduate Curriculum'.  These took place on March 19, 26, and April 2, at TWGHs Wong Fut Nam College, on HKU's Main Campus, and at S.K.H. Lam Kau Mow Secondary School respectively.  
HKU's Registrar and members of the Faculties of Arts, Business and Economics, Engineering, Science, and Social Sciences delivered informative presentations on the new curriculum to more than 1500 students, parents, teachers, and principals.  Questions about the curriculum were carefully addressed during the Q&amp;A sessions, and many members of the audience continued the discussions after each session as they mingled with the Registrar and Faculty representatives. 
As the academic year that will see the implementation of the new curriculum quickly approaches, the Academic Liaison Section will continue to address the needs and queries of students, parents, and schools, and will be happy to organize secondary school visits and admission talks.  For more information, please visit www.hku.hk/lslo . 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 
From left: Mr Henry Wai, HKU's Registrar and Dr P.S. Tso, HKU's Assoicate Dean of Faculty of Business and Economics
HKU launch its new 4-year undergraduate curriculum in 2012
 
