[title]University Artists Scheme: New Violin Dimensions – A Multimedia Concert with Yao Jue[/title]
[date]03 Apr 2009[/date]
 
A multimedia concert featuring new works by HKU composers for the University Artist Yao Jue. Violinist Yao Jue is one of the five University Artists appointed under the University Artists Scheme (UAS) of the University of Hong Kong. She will perform on 15 April 2009 (Wednesday) at 7:30pm, Loke Yew Hall, HKU. Admission is free and open to the public. 
Come and experience the new soundscape and imagescape with projected visuals, electronic sounds, gamelan orchestra, modern dance, improvised vocal, lighting effects as well as virtuosic violin performance by Yao. A commissioned work Inspiring Autumn by Mui Kwong-chiu and other 5 pieces of new works by HKU composers will be performed during the concert. The aim of this concert is let HKU students and alumni to have such a privilege to work closely with the artists and share their skills and knowledge in environments that cultivate creative and intellectual exploration.
The newly composed pieces are as follows:
1) Commissioned work Inspiring Autumn by Mui Kwong-chiu: the beauty of nature and the amazing patches of red and yellow leaves is the driving force of the piece. It is written for violin, dance and video with stills pictures of leaves.
2) Lux Aurumque by William So (PhD graduate from US): the piece attributes to the two great composers on solo violin literature: Niccolò Paganini and Eugène Ysaÿe. This is a solo piece with lighting effect for high technical standards.
3) Into the Music - Multimedia Etude No. 1 by Joao Mascarenhas (PhD student): The piece is written for violin and electronic keyboards, with video and pre-recorded audio track. There will be some improvisation and interaction between the violinist and the keyboard player.
4) He(A)r(e)not by Dawn-joy Leong (MPhil student): This piece is a simple exploration into the ephemeral, spontaneous and often fragile nature of human communication, specially written for violin, voice, video and soundscape.
5) A Tomb Odyssey by Austin Yip (MPhil student): A perception about the tomb and the death specially written for violin and gamelan with the HKU Balinese Gamelan Orchestra.
6) Inter岔rupted by Daniel Lo &amp; Tse Tai-shun: This piece is inspired by the familiar sound of the ringtone which infiltrated our daily lives. It is written for violin, voice, percussion and dance.
Media are cordially invited to cover the event, the details are as follows:
Date: April 15, 2009 (Wednesday)
Time: 7:30pm
Venue: Loke Yew Hall, HKU
About Yao Jue:
Virtuoso Yao Jue first came to prominence at 16 when she won first prize at the Chinese National Violin Competition. In 1982, she was awarded a full scholarship by the San Francisco Conservatory of Music to continue her violin studies with Zaven Melikian. Later she graduated from the Juilliard School of New York, where she studied under Dorothy DeLay. She made her New York recital debut before a standing room only audience at Carnegie's Weill Recital Hall in 1993 and has performed in major international festivals and prestigious halls.
Yao Jue is the only violinist to be included in the 1995 book "China's Famous Females" published by the International Women's Congress in Beijing. Her photo graces the cover with the caption "Jue Yao's playing shows that the Chinese have reached a world class level in music making."
About the University Artists Scheme:
The University Artists Scheme (UAS), with its focus on artists of international caliber, is the first of its kind at the University of Hong Kong. We look forward to bringing world-renowned artists to the campus to enrich the lives of our students. University Artists will pursue projects and activities through workshops, screenings, exhibitions and performance events. They will have an opportunity to enter into direct contact, and work closely with colleagues, practitioners and students in the University and the community at large.
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Faculty of Arts, HKU (Tel: 2859 8048 /email: kpmak@hku.hk ) or Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media), External Relations Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2600/email: hkumedia@hku.hk)
For programme details, please visit http://arts.hku.hk/UAS/
