[title]The University of Hong Kong Ranked Asia’s Top University in Arts and Humanities in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2011-2012[/title]
[date]21 Oct 2011[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has been ranked no. 1 in Asia and 36th in the world in Arts and Humanities in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2011-2012, announced on October 20, 2011. Only two Asian universities made it into the top 50 in this year's arts and humanities subject ranking.
While university rankings and league tables vary widely because they each employ different criteria and methodologies, HKU's presence amongst the best institutions in the world in this subject can be regarded as recognition of the outstanding achievements by members of its Faculty of Arts.
Professor Kam Louie, Dean of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Hong Kong, said, "the number one ranking in Asia is a welcome acknowledgement of our excellence in teaching and research, particularly in the area of China-West studies. The Arts Faculty plays a pivotal part in HKU's stated role of providing a platform for its staff and students to be well-rounded leaders with vision and humanity and the capacity to serve the local community and beyond."
The Faculty of Arts is home to some of the most respected scholars in their fields, among them Professors Tan Li-hai, whose State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Sciences is the recent beneficiary of a substantial grant from the Chinese government, and Frank Dikötter, who was awarded the prestigious 2011 BBC Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction for his book Mao's Great Famine: The History of China's Most Devastating Catastrophe, 1958-62.
Earlier this year, nine distinguished HKU humanities scholars were voted into the newly formed Hong Kong Academy of the Humanities, the most of any other university in Hong Kong - a further indication of the degree to which the Faculty is seen as a leader in the local and international professional community. The Academy, which also elected Professor Louie as its first President, aims to provide a collective voice for promoting and recognizing excellence in the humanities in Hong Kong.
In terms of teaching, the Faculty is continually seeking to enhance and internationalize the student learning experience. The number of Arts students participating in exchange programmes has nearly tripled over the last five years. The Faculty is active in expanding the breadth of its course offerings to suit the needs of students in an increasingly globalized world, and endeavours to strike a balance between maintaining flagship programmes like Chinese and English Studies and sustaining smaller, more unique ones such as African Studies.
Three new majors are being developed in preparation for the introduction of the new four-year curriculum in 2012: Global Creative Industries, Hong Kong Studies, and Korean Studies. Hong Kong Studies will be the first programme of its kind in Hong Kong and globally, and will draw together courses currently offered at HKU with a Hong Kong focus, from language, culture and history to politics, economics and the environment.
The Times Higher Education World University Rankings rely on five categories of activities, including teaching, research, citations, industry income and international mix, to compile their rankings.
For further information, please go to: http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/world-university-rankings/2011-2012/arts-and-humanities.html
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Georgina Challen, Public Affairs Manager, Faculty of Arts (tel: 2219 4250 email: gchallen@hku.hk ) or Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU (tel: 2859 2606, email: pychoy@hku.hk). 
