[title]HKU Law Students Excel in International Competitions[/title]
[date]24 May 2005[/date]
 
Three teams from the University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Law have distinguished themselves this year by winning awards and distinctions in various mooting and client counselling competitions.Each team travelled to a different corner of the world where they succeeded against teams from other world class law schools.
Runners Up in the ELSA Moot Court Competition on WTO Law
The HKU team was one of 18 teams (from a total of 52) invited to compete in the Final Oral Round in Geneva, Switzerland. In the result, HKU lost a close moot in the final round to City University London. The team finished in second place (in both the preliminary and final rounds) and team member Suchita Nanwani was awarded the prize for the Best Orator in the Final Elimination Round. In the preliminary rounds, the three oralist team members (Suchita Nanwani, Thomas Wong &amp; Ann Lui) ranked amongst the top ten oralists and two members (Suchita Nanwani &amp; Thomas Wong) ranked amongst the top five. This was the first time for HKU to participate in this competition.
Winners of the Australian Bar Association LAWASIA Moot
The HKU team was acclaimed Competition Champion after winning the final round moot. Queenie Lau won the Best Mooter prize. Seven teams competed in this inaugural mooting competition held in the Gold Coast, Australia. HKU succeeded against the Sri Lanka National Law College and University of Western Australia in the preliminary rounds, then against the International Islamic University of Malaysia in the semi-finals, and finally against the University of Western Australia in the final round. The team was sponsored by the Law Society of Hong Kong Educational Trust.
Semi-Finalists in the International Client Counselling Competition 2005
After winning the Hong Kong selection round on 19 February 2005, the HKU team traveled to Hawaii to compete against 13 other teams from around the world.After competing in the preliminary rounds against teams from Malaysia, Scotland and Sri Lanka, the HKU team ranked amongst the top six and advanced to the semi-final round.Despite a tremendous effort, the team did not get beyond this stage. This was the first time for HKU to compete at the international rounds.The team was sponsored by Deacons, a leading law firm. 
The full press releases for each of the competitions can be found at http://www3.hku.hk/law/display.php?id=207#.
For more information about these results and HKU's international competitions programme, you may contact Simon NM Young, Chair of the International Competitions Committee (2859 2719 or snmyoung@hku.hk).
 
