[title]HKU – Fudan MBA Programme Graduation Ceremony 2004 over 300 graduates in latest HKU-Fudan MBA Programme[/title]
[date]27 Sep 2004[/date]
 
More than 300 graduates and their families today (September 27) attended the Graduation Ceremony of the HKU-Fudan Master of Business Administration (International) Programme at the Shanghai International Convention Centre.The graduation ceremony was officiated by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU).Professor Richard Wong, Acting Dean of HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics, Professor Wang Sheng-hong, President of Fudan University, and Professor Zheng Zukang, Vice-President and Dean of School of Management of Fudan University also attended the ceremony.
The MBA (International) Programme, jointly organized by the University of Hong Kong and Fudan University in Shanghai and approved by the Academic Degrees Committee of the State Council, began in 1998. This year sees the fifth batch of graduates and also a significant growth in the number of applicants.
A discernible new trend is that the programme is beginning to attract international students who are expatriates based in Shanghai.In the 2004 intake, such international students come from the United States, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Since its beginning in 1998, the programme has grown in size and reputation.It has been ranked by the State Council for two consecutive years, in 2001 and 2002, as the best programme of its kind in the Mainland.
In addressing the graduates, Dr Victor Fung, Council Chairman of HKU, envisioned the coming of age of Asian tertiary education. "In the future, Asia will compete with the European Union and other western countries on a higher plane.By then, there will emerge a number of schools on a par with Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard and Princeton.HKU will belong to this echelon of world-class universities with its excellent research base in Asia," Dr Fung said. 
The morning ceremony was followed by an afternoon forum, where Dr Fung spoke on supply chain management.This was followed by a panel discussion moderated by Professor Richard Wong, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of HKU. The panelists included academics, government officials and executives from the banking and the logistical sectors.
For further information, please contact Ms Lydia Lai of the Faculty of Business &amp; Economics at 2241 5337 or Ms Polo Leung of the External Relations Office at 2859-2600.
 
