[title]HKU Formally Welcomes New Students to the University Family[/title]
[date]27 Aug 2008[/date]
 


The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (August 27) officially welcomed its new students to the HKU family at the annual Inauguration Ceremony. The University has admitted about 2,900 new students in various programmes this academic year, including about 310 non-local students. 
The ceremony, officiated by HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, was the first formal University event attended by the new students. Its purpose was to highlight different aspects of university life to the new students, as well as to introduce them to members of the University community including teachers, administrators, senior schoolmates and alumni. 
Present at the ceremony were Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Tam, Deans of all ten faculties, Dear of Graduate School Professor Anthony Yeh, Dean of Student Affairs Dr Albert Chau, Registrar Mr Henry Wai, Librarian Dr Anthony Ferguson, Chairman of Convocation Mrs Teresa Tong and President of the Students' Union Mr Kwok Wing Kin, among various guests. 
Addressing the ceremony as Guest of Honour was Ms Christine Fang Meng-sang, Chief Executive, The Hong Kong Council of Social Service.  
In his inauguration address, Professor Tsui welcomed the new students to the First and Foremost university in Hong Kong, which has nearly 100 years of academic excellence and services to the community. Most of the students attending the inauguration today would be graduating in 2011, when the University celebrates its Centenary. 
He encouraged them to make the most out of the all-round education the University had to offer, so as to fulfill the society's great expectation of HKU graduates "to think independently, critically and deeply, to hold the highest moral standards, to be responsible individuals - responsible to yourselves, to your families and friends, and, to society". 
He also challenged the new students to "dare to dream large, stand tall and make a difference", so as to uphold the HKU pioneering spirit to become keen creators of new knowledge, pioneers of knowledge application, and leaders who make changes for the betterment of the society and the world. 
Echoing Professor Tsui, Ms Christine Fang advised new students to take every opportunity that university life offered to learn and to experience. Ms Fang, who is a HKU alumna in social sciences, said her study with the University had furnished her with development of personality, passion for career, wisdom to be people-oriented, and the fraternity of many friends. 
HKU Students' Union President Mr Kwong Wing-kin urged fellow students to be more concerned with public affairs and problems of the society, on top of studying hard and participating in various university activities. He believed that by bringing hope to others, especially the underprivileged, university students could already start fulfilling their responsibility of building the world into a better place for all. 
For enquiries please contact Senior Manager (Media) Ms Cherry Cheung (Tel: 2859 2606 / E-mail: cherry.cheung@hku.hk); or Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk ) 

 


Vice-Chancellor of HKU Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
 
Picture 2

Chairman of Convocation of HKU Mrs Teresa Tong
 
President of the Students' Union of HKU Mr Kwok Wing Kin

Guest of Honour, Chief Executive of The Hong Kong Council of Social Service, Ms Christine Fang Mei-sang
 
Guest of Honour, Chief Executive of The Hong Kong Council of Social Service, Ms Christine Fang Mei-sang

Picture 7
 
Picture 8
 
 
 
