[title]HKU and Imperial College London sign Memorandum of Understanding on joint PhD degree programme[/title]
[date]24 Jul 2009[/date]
 


Professor Paul Tam, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) of HKU, and Professor Mary Ritter, Pro Rector (International Affairs) of Imperial College London, at the MOU signing ceremony

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and the Imperial College London signed a Memorandum of Understanding at HKU today (July 24) to work together in developing a joint Doctor of Philosophy Degree programme.
Professor Paul Tam, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) of HKU, and Professor Mary Ritter, Pro Rector (International Affairs) of Imperial College London, represented the universities at the signing ceremony.
Meanwhile, 48 research postgraduate students from the Imperial College London, Tsinghua University and HKU are attending a 5-day residential International Research Skills Development programme at HKU from July 19 to 25, 2009.
The course, which is the first of its kind in Hong Kong and designed specifically for early stage PhD students, is based on the award-winning transferable skills programme regularly run by Imperial College London and taught by professors from the College.
The primary purpose of the course is to enhance both the personal and research effectiveness of participants.  The course goes beyond academic study and research skills, and offers a wonderful opportunity for the development of awareness and skills which are significant for students' postgraduate study, career and whole person development.  Furthermore, it exposes students to a new learning environment and  meet people from around the globe.
The course adopts an interactive teaching mode which focuses on experiential learning, achieved through a series of challenging group tasks.  Participants from the three universities will be divided into small teams to perform various group exercises.  Topics include planning, project management, creativity in research, communication skills, group dynamics, networking, developing self-awareness, collaborative research and careers.  As much as possible, links are made to the research environment and participants are encouraged to apply their new insights to their work.
For media enquiries, please contact:
Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2606 Email: pychoy@hku.hk

