[title]Family Medicine and Primary Care Symposium: Enhancing Quality Primary Care Through Research and Evidence in Hong Kong[/title]
[date]26 Nov 2011[/date]
 
The Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care of Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, the University of Hong Kong proudly presents the Family Medicine and Primary Care Symposium on November 26-27, 2011.  During the symposium, overseas and local speakers and physicians share their insights and experience on enhancing primary care in Hong Kong. 
 This exciting symposium demonstrates how research and evidence have informed or changed policy and clinical practice in primary care, health equity, mental health, and medical education.  Plenary session highlights include international primary care research agenda, health-related quality of life research, evidence-based diabetes reference framework, and studies on health care for abused Chinese women and sex workers.   Well-known local and overseas speakers will participate in this symposium with the aim of generating constructive debate and discussion within the profession. In particular, an interactive forum with a panel of leading local and international primary care experts on "Integrating Evidence and Practice" will be held tomorrow (November 27).
At the opening of this symposium, the Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care of the University of Hong Kong was officially inaugurated, with Dr. York CHOW Yat-ngok, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR; Dr. Donald LI Kwok-Tung, Regional President, World Organization of Family Doctors (Asia Pacific Region); Dr. LO Su Vui, Director (Strategy &amp; Planning), Hospital Authority; Professor Paul TAM Kwong-hang, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Research), the University of Hong Kong; Professor LEE Sum-ping, Dean, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, the University of Hong Kong and Professor Cindy LAM Lo-kuen, Head, Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, the University of Hong Kong as officiating guests. 
Professor Cindy LAM Lo-kuen, Head of Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, welcomed the speakers and guests who joined the Family Medicine and Primary Care Symposium to celebrate the inauguration of our Department.  She stressed that the newly established Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care is dedicated to enable medical graduates to become more person-centred, humane, effective, efficient, communicative and empathetic doctors. Family medicine professes in the delivery of quality primary care.  "Family medicine distinguishes itself from other disciplines by its emphasis on holistic and comprehensive care that counters the growing trend of fragmented specialised medical care.  Our mission is to promote health and best evidence-based practice for our population and collaborate with other medical, nursing, health and social disciplines in research and service.  This symposium is the beginning of a continuing primary care research initiative that the Department has committed to carry out in Hong Kong and the region." Professor Lam remarked.
Members of the media are cordially invited to attend the other sessions of the symposium to learn more about the latest developments in primary care in Hong Kong.  For more details of the symposium, please refer to the enclosed programme rundown.  
Family Medicine and Primary Care Symposium:
Enhancing Quality Primary Care Through Research and Evidence in Hong Kong 
Programme rundown 

November 26, 2011 (Sat) 

9:00am - 9:30am 
Opening Ceremony of the Family Medicine and 
Primary Care Symposium 

9:30am - 10:30am 
Keynote session 

Undertaking research that makes a difference 
Professor David Mant, University of Oxford, UK 

11:00am - 12:30pm 
First Plenary Session on "Primary Health Care Services" 
Is primary care research just about health services? 
Professor Chris Del Mar, Bond University, Australia 

Putting Evidence into practice: developing reference frameworks for primary care in Hong Kong 
Professor Sian Griffiths, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, HK 

Health-related Quality of Life as a Health Outcome Measure in Primary Care 
Professor Cindy Lam, The University of Hong Kong, HK 

1:30pm - 3:00pm 
Second Plenary Session on "Health Equity" 
Health equity: what will make a difference to outcomes? 
Professor Carol Herbert, The University of Western Ontario, Canada 

Health equity: Effect of immigration on health outcomes among abused Chinese women 
Professor Agnes Tiwari, The University of Hong Kong, HK 

How information can improve equity and efficiency in the delivery of primary health care 
Dr. Karen Kinder, Johns Hopkins University, USA 

3:30pm - 5:00pm 
Third Plenary Session on "Mental Health" 
Prevent before it occurs: Mental health interventions in primary care 
Professor Samuel Wong, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, HK 

Partnering with family doctors to study mental health in the community: Primary Care Research Network in action 
Dr. Weng Yee Chin, The University of Hong Kong, HK 

Evidence for psychological intervention as a new approach for HIV prevention amongst sex workers in Hong Kong 
Dr. William Wong, The University of Hong Kong, HK 

  
November 27, 2011 (Sun) 

1:30pm - 3:00pm 
Fourth Plenary Session on "Medical Education" 
The increasing emphasis on primary care in medical education: Be careful what you wish for 
Professor Carol Herbert, The University of Western Ontario, Canada 

The development of general practitioners in China 
Prof Shanzhu Zhu, Fudan University, China 

The biopsychosocial approach in primary care - can it be taught to practicing primary care doctors? 
Professor TP Lam, The University of Hong Kong, HK 

3:30pm - 4:45pm 
Forum "Integrating Evidence and Practice" 
Professor David Mant, Professor Chris Del Mar, Professor Carol Herbert, Professor Cindy Lam, Professor Shanzhu Zhu 

Open forum discussion 

 
 
 
 


 
Professor Cindy LAM Lo-kuen, Head, Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said the Department is dedicated to promote health and best evidence-based practice for our population and collaborate with other medical, nursing, health and social disciplines in research and service.
 
Dr. York CHOW Yat-ngok, Secretary for Food and Health, HKSAR supported the substantial development of primary health care.
 
With the presence of the officiating guests, the Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care of the University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine was officially inaugurated at the opening of the symposium


