[title]Over 500 Academics, Professionals and Elderly Share their Vision and Expertise at the "CADENZA Symposium: Preparing for an Elder Friendly Hong Kong" at HKU[/title]
[date]08 Jan 2007[/date]
 
The Faculty of Social Sciences of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust bring together over 500 participants, including renowned scholars from Hong Kong and abroad, professional practitioners from non-governmental organizations, government units and respectful senior citizens, to the first CADENZA Symposium entitled "Preparing for an Elder Friendly Hong Kong" which is being held at HKU from today (January 8) to January 10, 2007.The 3-day Symposium officially kicks-off the intellectual component of the CADENZA project.
This CADENZA symposium is the first international, cross-disciplinary, academic and professional symposium co-hosted by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust and HKU. Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, has always encouraged active exchanges of expertise, and the fostering of a vibrant research culture effective and relevant for our society.He says the CADENZA symposium "marks the formation of a platform for long-term collaboration, interaction and exchange amongst academia, social enterprises and government for building an elder friendly Hong Kong."
Mr William Y Yiu, Executive Director of Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club explains that the CADENZA project launched by the Jockey Club in May last year is aimed at fostering positive community attitudes towards older people and improving the quality of care and quality of life for the elderly.
Officiating at the opening ceremony, Dr the Hon York CHOW Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food notes that in designing elderly policies, one has to understand the basic needs of the elders, which he summarizes under three main categories, that (1) the elders have to have the health of physical independence; that (2) family contributes one of the core values; and that (3) the elders have to be made to feel that they have the ability and interest to make their lives worth the living.
In his keynote address, Dr the Hon LEONG Che-hung, Chairman of Elderly Commission says, "The elders of today and tomorrow should be active and project a positive image. Ageing should never be equated with uselessness," he adds, "the well being of our elders depends on a partnership among the Government, the non-governmental organizations and the business sector."
On the first day of the Symposium, Professor Denise Burnette and Professor Ada Mui from the Columbia University School of Social Work introduces the developmental life course perspective to examine how individual development and ageing are intricately and inextricably linked with the broader socio-historical contexts in which they occur.They also share an illustrative life story to show how individual biographies can be used to illuminate and inform professional practice and public policy in an ageing society. (Presentation 1 - Jan 8)
Professor Nancy Morrow-Howell, George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University in St. Louis, joins Professor Ada Mui to talk about how model programmes and policies can respond to the roles of people in later life when older adults express a desire to continue to work, to perform important volunteer roles in their community, to undertake creative endeavors, and to care for the younger generation. (Presentation 2 - Jan 8)
Professor Rosalie Kane, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, aims to inspire new ways of thinking about residentially-based long-term care programmes, from quality of life to quality of care.Joining Professor Kane will be Professor Kevin Mahoney, Boston College Graduate School of Social Work, to explain the demographic and attitudinal factors affecting community-based long term care, and to concentrate on the principles or vision underlying consumer-directed care from person-centred planning through managing and improving quality.(Presentation 3 - Jan 9)
Professor Kevin Mahoney, will also highlight consumer directed community care and quality of life of older people and discussed some implementation lessons in the United States.(Presentation 4 - Jan 9)
In addition, Professor Rosalie Kane will share examples of how to enhance quality of life in residential care facilities, with reference to the "Green Houses" developed in Mississippi, United States.The Green House is a model for a different kind of nursing home in which 10 or fewer people who live in a small, separate setting, staffed by a dedicated group of care attendants and a visiting team of professionals. (Presentation 5 - Jan 9)
Professor Robert Kane, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, will focus on “rebalancing” residential care and community-based care, as well as the possibilities and challenges facing the future of long term care, through sharing relevant examples in the United States.(Presentation 6 - Jan 9)
Notes to Editors:
1. Please visit http://www.hku.hk/socsc/news/news_press.htm to download photos of the event.
2. Interviews with speakers to be arranged upon request by press members.
3. CADENZA is a wide-reaching five-year community project, initiated by The Hong Kong Jockey Club with a funding of HK$380 million in collaboration with local and overseas experts in social gerontology. It aims to train a new generation of experts in gerontology, revolutionise the way in which people view and care for the elderly, and promote respect for Hong Kong's elderly people in the face of a rapidly ageing population.
4. According to Hong Kong census population projections, up to 27% of the city's populace will be 65 or over by 2033.This is an increase from about 796,000 in 2003 to more than 2.26 million in 2033.In preparation for the ageing of its citizens, Hong Kong, like many other ageing communities world-wide, must become increasingly elder-friendly.
5. The Presentations and Open Forums will be conducted in English and Cantonese respectively.Simultaneous interpretation in Cantonese and English will be provided.
For media enquiries, please contact the Faculty of Social Sciences, HKU:
Miss Michelle Chow (Tel.: 2241 5917, email: chowmmc@hkucc.hku.hk)
Miss Vanessa Sit (Tel.: 2859 2983, email: vansit@hkucc.hk)
For the detailed programme rundown and other information, please visit http://www.hku.hk/cadenza.
