[title]See the World – launching of HKU Study Abroad Fair[/title]
[date]09 Nov 2009[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) launches this year's Study Abroad Fair on campus today (November 9) to facilitate students to choose their exchange destinations in 2010. 
Local and international students of HKU together kick off the event with lion dances and cultural performances at the inauguration ceremony. 
This year, some 80 international students from 20 countries set up 14 booths to share information about the culture and learning life of their mother countries with local students. 
HKU's Cultural Diversity Ambassadors also launch a charity sale of sunglasses for ORBIS Hong Kong to contribute to the fight against global blindness. 
In 2008/09, some 851 HKU students went on exchange, an increase of about 10% from the previous year, and 901 students from various countries were on reciprocal exchange in HKU campus over the year. 
At present, HKU students can go for credit-bearing exchange studies to some 28 countries. Other than regular semester exchange, there are also service outgoing opportunities. The students can participate in a wide spectrum of international exposure activities of varied nature, such as study trips, international conferences, and voluntary services to help the underprivileged people in poor countries. 
Aiming to nurture young global leaders with wide vision, HKU endeavours to provide every full-time undergraduate student with at least one overseas exposure opportunity in their study at the University in the future. The incorporation of experiential learning is one of the key components of the University's new 4-year undergraduate curriculum. 
For photos of today's event, please visit http://www.hku.hk/media  and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery". 
For the full list of activities and exchange application details, please refer to the OISE website at www.hku.hk/exchange . 
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk . 

