[title]HKU as the first world university launches HeForShe on campus
A UN initiative on gender balance
[/title]
[date]10 Apr 2015[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) launched a UN campaign HeForShe today (April 10, 2015) in Loke Yew Hall. HeForShe is a United Nations (UN) initiative on gender balance and HKU is the first university globally to launch this campaign on campus.
The event was hosted by Head of HeForShe Ms Elizabeth Nyamayaro and HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson. Guests attending included Hong Kong Equal Opportunities Commission Chairman Dr York Chow and University Grants Committee Secretary-General Dr Richard Armour. About 300 university members participated in the event.
The overall goal of HeForShe is to spread awareness and spark action on the responsibility that men and boys have in eliminating all forms of discrimination against women and violence against women and girls. This is not about women or men, it is about crafting a shared vision of human progress for all – about creating a solidarity movement between women and men for the achievement of gender equality. UN intends to mobilize “one billion men by July 2015” to help communities around the world develop sustainable and transformative programs to promote gender equality. Men and boys need to be part of the global movement to promote women’s rights both as advocates and stakeholders, who need to change to make gender equality a reality for all.
The launch event at HKU was in particular a CALL TO ACTION for all the men of HKU: staff, students, alumni, Council members, friends alike. The important difference from previous campaigns on gender balance is that the HeForShe initiative is targeted at men. It aims to get men to talk about, and more importantly, do something about, issues of gender equality.
According to UN, much has been achieved by the feminist movement and women’s rights organizations in promoting gender equality to this day. It is recognized that women’s empowerment is essential for inclusive economic growth, social cohesion and social justice, environmental balance, and for progress in all spheres of life. However, progress has been uneven between and among countries with pervasive gender-based discrimination continuing in every country and region.
UN Women is creating an impact group called 10x10x10 comprising 10 Heads of State, 10 CEOs of global corporations and 10 University Presidents. Professor Peter Mathieson, HKU President and Vice-Chancellor, was invited to be a member of the group which he has enthusiastically agreed. At today’s launch event, Professor Mathieson pledged his commitment to improving gender equality and called on the men of HKU to weigh in and help make a real difference.
HeForShe official website: http://www.heforshe.org/
HKU’s HeForShe pre-event promo: http://uvision.hku.hk/playvideo.php?mid=19129
Media enquiries:
HKU Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office
Ms Rhea Leung (Tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446/ Email: rhea.leung@hku.hk) or
Ms Julie Chu (Tel: 2859 2437 / 9357 3898/ Email: juliechu@hku.hk)

About 300 HKU members participate in the launch event of HeForShe.

HKU is the first university globally to launch this campaign on campus. (From right) Head of HeForShe Ms Elizabeth Nyamayaro, HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, Hong Kong Equal Opportunities Commission Chairman Dr York Chow and University Grants Committee Secretary-General Dr Richard Armour in the launch event. 



HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson

Head of HeForShe Ms Elizabeth Nyamayaro



University Grants Committee Secretary-General Dr Richard Armour

Hong Kong Equal Opportunities Commission Chairman Dr York Chow


