[title]Professor Lung Yingtai speaks at HKU on “My Hong Kong, My Taiwan”[/title]
[date]01 Dec 2012[/date]
 
Professor Lung Yingtai, Minister of Culture of Taiwan, gave a talk entitled “My Hong Kong, My Taiwan” at Loke Yew Hall at the University of Hong Kong today (December 1). The talk was co-organised by the Kwang Hwa Information and Culture Centre.
An audio clip of Professor Lung’s speech in the talk (Q and A session not included) will be available at: http://uvision.hku.hk/uvweb/120112_lyt/index.html
For more photos of the event, please visit: http://www4.hku.hk/photos/index.php/for_media_only/gallery
Professor Lung Yingtai
Lung Yingtai, Minister of Culture, is also a celebrated writer, literary critic and public intellectual. Having written 30 books, Lung not only has a large number of devoted readers in her native Taiwan, but her works also have great influence in the Chinese-language world, in Hong Kong, China, and North America.  After receiving her doctorate in English Literature from Kansas State University, Lung Yingtai taught at several universities, including Taiwan Central University and the University of Heidelberg. During her 13 years’ sojourn in Europe, Lung was a regular contributor to newspapers such as the Frankfurter Allgemeinung Zeitung and the Berlin Tageszeitung.
Recognising Taiwan’s potential to share the global cultural spotlight, Lung entered public service as Taipei City Government’s first minister of culture in 1999. She quickly earned a reputation for implementing practical projects that successfully transformed rundown buildings into artist villages, literature houses and museums. The eye-catching results unlocked the cultural potential of the metropolis and ushered in a new era of living for residents.
In July 2005, a dozen of influential intellectuals together with like-minded business leaders established the Lung Yingtai Cultural Foundation with the aim to cultivate civil society of Taiwan.
Lung was the Visiting Professor at the Media and Journalism Centre, the University of Hong Kong in 2004.  In 2008, Lung received the honour of being named the first “Hung Leung Hau Ling Distinguished Fellow in Humanities” by The University of Hong Kong.
Lung Yingtai was appointed Minister of Culture in May, 2012.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .

















