[title]“Hong Kong Symposium on HIV/AIDS 2012”
Exploring New Ways of HIV Prevention[/title]
[date]13 Nov 2012[/date]
 
The number of AIDS infections in Hong Kong, which has reached its record high in the recent quarter, is estimated to hit the alarming mark of 500 by the end of year according to the Centre for Health Protection.  To fight against this growing epidemic, the AIDS Institute of HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine presents the first ever “Hong Kong Symposium on HIV/AIDS 2012”, in collaboration with Hong Kong AIDS Foundation on Nov 13-14, 2012 (Tuesday and Wednesday).  During the symposium, internationally renowned scientists, such as the innovator of “AIDS cocktail”, Professor David D Ho, local speakers and healthcare practitioners share their latest research discoveries on HIV prevention and treatment.
The Symposium provides a platform and golden opportunity for scientists from multiple AIDS research institutions of the United States, mainland China and Hong Kong to gather and to explore new ways of HIV prevention.
At the opening of this symposium, Dr Leong Che-hung, GBM, GBS, JP, the Chairman of Hong Kong University Council and Hong Kong AIDS Foundation; Professor Lee Sum-ping, Dean of HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; and Dr Susan Fan Yun-sun, Chairperson of Advisory Council on AIDS of HKSAR Government, give opening remarks to welcome the speakers and guests.
The first-day of Symposium is highlighted by the keynote speaker, Professor David D Ho, Scientific Director and Chief Executive Officer, Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, the Rockefeller University.  As the innovator of combination antiretroviral therapy "AIDS cocktail", Professor Ho delivers a talk entitled “Passive Immunisation Approaches to HIV Prevention” to present his latest method of using a new, potent and long lasting protective antibody to prevent HIV infection, while this session is chaired by Professor Yuen Kwok-yung, Henry Fok Professor in Infectious Diseases and Chair Professor of Infectious Diseases, Department of Microbiology, HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine.
Dr Chen Zhiwei, Director of HKU AIDS Institute, HKU Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, stresses in his talk that “finding a biomedical way of HIV prevention is essential to bringing down the growing AIDS epidemic before a vaccine is available.  Promoting the latest scientific discoveries here may place Hong Kong where the overall size of infection is still small in addition to existing programmes such as condom promotion, in an advantage position to fight our regional epidemic effectively. This symposium not only allows practitioners to learn the latest progress of HIV prevention in the world but challenges on what Hong Kong scientists and clinicians can contribute to the global fight against HIV/AIDS."
Other overseas renowned scientists also present their primary discoveries, including Professor George Shaw, Professor of Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania; Professor Zhang Linqi, Professor of Institute of Human Virology, Tsinghua University; and Professor Robert Schooley, Professor and Chief of Division of Infectious Diseases, University of California San Diego. 
While celebrating the fifth anniversary of HKU AIDS Institute, the Symposium, endorsed by Hong Kong Advisory Council on AIDS, also concludes the past experience and studies of the Institute on AIDS.  Apart from the keynote talk, three key topics of the symposium entitled “New Ways of HIV Prevention”, “Treatment as Prevention” and “Novel Ideas of AIDS Vaccine” are delivered by overseas and local scientists.  Our local AIDS experts from government and healthcare institutions also present Hong Kong’s efforts in the fight against AIDS.
About HKU AIDS Institute
HKU AIDS Institute was established on November 22, 2007, as HKU’s strategic research direction in the area of infectious diseases.  Ever since, the Institute has produced numerous scientific publications, and has obtained nearly 40 million external funding via research proposals.  
About Hong Kong AIDS Foundation
Hong Kong AIDS Foundation was established in 1991.  The Foundation is a social service organisation with the mission to curb the spread of HIV infection.  Throughout the years, the Foundation has been actively engaged in the promotion of AIDS education, the provision of service and the nurturing of a harmonious and caring environment for those infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS. 
Please visit the website at http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases/ for press photos.

Overseas scientists and local healthcare professionals gather at the first ever “Hong Kong Symposium on HIV/AIDS 2012”, co-organised by the AIDS Institute of The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine and Hong Kong AIDS Foundation.

Professor David D Ho, the innovator of combination antiretroviral therapy "AIDS cocktail", presents his research on latest method of using a new, potent and long lasting protective antibody to prevent HIV Infection.


Dr Chen Zhiwei, Director of HKU AIDS Institute, says the number of AIDS infection has reached a record high recently and the researchers have been working hard on exploring new ways of HIV prevention.
.



