[title]HKU Architecture Department Exhibition Showcases Students[/title]
[date]17 Jun 2005[/date]
 
Hypothetical design projects representing individual students' idealized visions of the built-environment of Hong Kong and some other cities in Mainland China will be on display for the general public at an annual architectural exhibition at the University of Hong Kong.
This exhibition, organized by the Department of Architecture, is the result of theoretical investigations of architectural and urban design projects by all years of students.A major part of the exhibition features "Design Theses" of the Master of Architecture (MArch), Master of Urban Design and Master of Landscape Architecture degree courses.
Many of the MArch theses reflect students' concern about high density living of urban metropolises: determination to tackle environmental problems while maintaining sustainability and conservation.They range from new urban experience, media transformation, spiritual retreats or idealization of places for pleasure, work and community - an ideological expression to challenge the conventional approach for such structures.They represent the fruits of five years of learning at the University.
With over half a century of educational endeavour, the Department demonstrates its continued commitment to promote public awareness on architectural education and discourse in Hong Kong.
This year, several students have won prizes in various international competitions, which have become a tradition of achievements and excellence for the Department.They include:
 2004-2005 ACSA/AISC Student Design Competition:
One alumnus won second prize in Category I- Student Union Building. The winners were chosen from among 400 submissions from over 40 countries.
 7 Concourse International Arquine Frontera/Border Competition organized by the Arquine architecture magazine:
Out of a total of six finalists, four were from the Department. The winners were selected out of more than 467 teams from 34 countries.
 Architecture+ Awards (2004) international competition Design for a New World endorsed by the Dubai Cultural Council: 
One student won first prize in the Aspiring Architect Category. The winners were selected out of 29 entries and participants. 
 HKIA Young Architects' Award 2004.
Won by a Master of Architecture graduate. 
 International Design Competition for New Canal Town in Southern China in Shanghai:
One student was awarded second place in this competition.
 A Master of Landscape Architecture student was selected from hundreds of applicants to participate in the Summer Internship Programme at EDAW. 
Guidance and encouragement to the students to excel at design competitions has been provided by staff members who themselves have participated in and won laurels in various competitions.
 Two staff members jointly won a prize in the International Competition for the Modern Saudi House in Saudi Arabia out of a total of 2,000 entries. They also won a prize in the Central Glass International Architectural Design Competition 2004 in Japan as well as at the Royal Academy Summer Show in London for their two exhibited drawings.
 A team of three senior staff members has been named as the Literati Club Awards for Excellence Outstanding Paper for 2005 for their article "Assessing the health and hygiene performance of apartment buildings". 
 One of the senior staff members won an Honorable Mention in the SARS Memorial Competition 2004 which will be exhibited at several venues in 2005.
 Another staff member, also a member of NASA, and a student of the department have put together a design dubbed the "mobitat" – a self-contained mobile habitat for people living and working on the lunar surface. It is a vehicle designed to be launched unmanned towards the moon, for use by future occupants exploring the surface.
Details of the exhibition as follows:
Duration:June 18 to 27, 2005
Exhibition hours:11:00 am to 7:00 pm daily, including Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays
Venue:Department of Architecture, 3rd Floor, Knowles Building, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong
(Admission is free.All are welcome.)
For enquiries, please contact HKU's Department of Architecture, Miss Mandy Tang at Tel: 2859-8992.
 
