[title]Contemporary Arts in Japan – A Talk on Setouchi International Art Festival 2010[/title]
[date]20 May 2010[/date]
 
A public seminar entitled ‘Contemporary Arts in Japan - A Talk on Setouchi International Art Festival 2010' co-organized by the General Education Unit of The University of Hong Kong and Sense Art Studio will be held from 3:00pm to 5:00pm at KKLG109, LG1/F, K. K. Leung Building, on 24 May, 2010 (Monday).  Mr. Fram Kitagawa, the General Director of Setouchi International Art Festival Executive Committee, will be the guest speaker of the seminar.
Setouchi International Art Festival 2010 will be held at Seto Inland Sea of Japan from July to October this year.  The festival will feature numerous masterpieces of many well-known international artists and architects in collaboration with the local community of the islands.  It aims to celebrate cultural exchange between visitors and local inhabitants through the use of contemporary art and architecture.  Mr. Fram Kitagawa will share the visionary objectives of the festival and enlighten the audience with new ways of seeing contemporary arts.
Mr. Fram Kitagawa has been the General Coordinator for ‘Echigo-Tsumari Art Triennial' since 1996 and is also the General Director of Chichu Art Museum, Naoshima.  Mr. Kitagawa has organized public art exhibitions and events on grass-roots level in Japan, including ‘Antonio Gaudi' which traveled to 13 cities in 1978-79, ‘Prints Show for Children' which traveled to 77 schools, and ‘Apartheid Non ! International Art Festival' which traveled to 194 places and attracted 380,000 visitors. He is active in a wide range of arts and cultural activities including publication, music production, curation, public art direction for cities, urban planning and art criticism.
This seminar will be conducted in Japanese with English interpretation.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms. Celeste Shai, Executive Officer, General Education Unit, HKU (tel: 2241 5045 / e-mail: cymshai@hku.hk )
