[title]HKU – Fudan MBA Programme Graduation Ceremony 2005 held in Shanghai[/title]
[date]09 Oct 2005[/date]
 
More than 300 graduates and their families today (October 9) attended the Graduation Ceremony of the HKU-Fudan Master of Business Administration (International) Programme in Shanghai at the Shanghai Grand Theater. 
The Graduation Ceremony was officiated by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU).Professor Y.C. Richard Wong, Acting Dean of HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics, Professor Wang Sheng-hong, President of Fudan University, and Professor Zheng Zukang, Vice-President and Dean of School of Management of Fudan University also attended the ceremony.
The MBA (International) Programme, jointly organized by the University of Hong Kong and Fudan University in Shanghai and approved by the Academic Degrees Committee of the State Council, began in 1998.This year sees the sixth batch of graduates joining the 1,100-strong alumni body.
Since its beginning in 1998, the programme has grown in size and reputation.It has been ranked by the State Council for two consecutive years as the best programme of its kind in the Mainland.A discernible new trend is that the programme is beginning to attract international students who are expatriates based in Shanghai.Such international students come from the United States, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The programme's reputation in China is echoed by the world recognition of HKU's MBA programme which was ranked the highest in Asia and 45th in the world by the Economist Intelligence Unit in its 2005 rankings of the world's top 100 MBAs.
Professor Y.C. Richard Wong, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of HKU and Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, was confident that the programme will continue to attract top-quality students.Speaking to the new graduates, Professor Wong said, "I expect your academic training and international outlook will help you embark on major breakthroughs in your careers, that you will make significant contributions toward the modernisation of China."
In addressing the graduates, the Guest of Honour, Mr. Thomas P.K. Kwok, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited, encouraged the graduates to become successful businessmen as well as good corporate citizens."To be a good corporate citizen means being transparent at all times so that your shareholders and investors know the situation clearly.Corporate Governance is one of the key factors in the success of a company and the success of a financial centre like Hong Kong," Mr. Kwok said.
For media enquiries, please contact Mr. Tommy Cho, Executive Director of Faculty of Business &amp; Economics (Tel: 9313 2486) or Miss Cherry Cheung, Senior Press Officer, HKU (Tel: 2859 2606).
