[title]Two HKU chemists receive Croucher Innovation Award and Senior Research Fellowship 2016 [/title]
[date]18 Apr 2016[/date]
 


Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu, Assistant Professor of the Department of Chemistry, HKU, receives the Croucher Innovation Award

Professor Chen Guanhua, Head of Department of Chemistry, HKU, receives the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship

Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu, Assistant Professor of the Department of Chemistry of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) received the Croucher Innovation Award 2016; and Professor Chen Guanhua, Head of Department of Chemistry, HKU,  received the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship 2016. 
Four distinguished scholars from HKU were recipients of the Croucher Innovation Awards and Croucher Senior Research Fellowships this year. 
2016 Croucher Innovation Awardee
Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu
Assistant Professor of Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, HKU

Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu is currently an Assistant Professor of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Hong Kong. He obtained his BSc (1st Hons) and MPhil degrees in Chemistry in 2004 and 2006 respectively from the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and graduated with a PhD degree from the University of Cambridge in 2010. He worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Berkeley in 2011-2013. He joined the University of Hong Kong in September 2013.
His main research interest is in the area of supramolecular chemistry and molecular recognition. He is interested in understanding how molecules recognise and interact with each other, exploiting molecular interactions in the self-assembly of complex structures, and creating functional materials from molecular assembly and recognition. In particular, his group is now exploring different assembly strategies for the assembly of topologically complex molecules such as catenanes with multiple interlocked macrocycles, as well as developing systems that can selectively recognise and detect small organic molecules in the complex biological environment.
One specific project in his group concerns the molecular recognition of catecholamine. Catecholamine, such as dopamine, is a class of small molecule neurotransmitter that transmits nervous signal in the nervous system. Recognition system that can selectively capture and report levels of catecholamine in the complex biological environment could lead to different bioanalytical tools to aid the study of these important biomolecules. For example, a catecholamine specific fluorescent probe can help trace the changes of the level of the small molecule in health and disease states, providing valuable information on the role of the neurotransmitter in different neurodegenerative diseases. Another project in his group is about the self-assembly of complex catenanes, which are mechanically interlocked chain at the molecular level. Due to the mechanical linkages in these interlocked rings, the catenanes possess unusual mechanical strength and flexibility which could be exploited as new types of molecular materials.
Dr Au-Yeung received the Croucher Foundation Scholarship and Croucher Foundation Fellowship for his PhD and postdoctoral studies respectively. He has also recently been awarded the Croucher Innovation Award and the Thieme Chemistry Journals Award 2016. 
For the biography of Dr Au-Yeung Ho Yu, please click here.
Croucher Senior Research Fellowship 2016
Professor Chen Guanhua
Head of Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, HKU

Professor Chen Guanhua, Head of Department of Chemistry, the University of Hong Kong, and Principal Coordinate of the Area of Excellence on Theory, Modeling and Simulation of Emerging Electronics, is a theoretical chemist. His research focuses on developing numerical solutions of the famous Schrödinger Equation of quantum mechanics. In the past, numerical solution of Schrödinger equation was limited to smaller molecular systems. Professor Chen and his team have developed a novel numerical algorithm to solve the Schrödinger equation, and extended its solution to much larger systems such as transistors. Combining with the existing Compact Model and Circuit Simulators in semiconductor industry, Professor Chen and co-workers can now model intergrated circuits starting from quantum mechanical simulation of individual transistors, and thus, pave the way for designing next generation computer chips from quantum mechanics. Due to this achievement, Professor Chen was elected as Fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry in 2011 and Fellow of American Physical Society in 2014.

In future, besides continuing research on emerging electronics, Professor Chen and his team will work on new solar cells. Through quantum mechanical simulation and modeling, the team will explore new solar cell materials and devices that are not based on silicon. 
For the biography of Professor Chen Guanhua, please click here.
For the HKU press release on the Croucher awardees, please visit: http://www.hku.hk/press/news_detail_14426.html
The Croucher Innovation Awards
Established in 2012, the Croucher Innovation Awards aim to identify a small number of exceptionally talented scientists working at an internationally competitive level and to offer substantial support to these “rising stars” at a formative stage in their careers. The scheme is designed to enable recipients to pursue their own scientific, intellectual and professional inclinations, to advance their expertise, to engage in bold new work, and to contribute to the development of education and research in Hong Kong. Each award carries a value of up to HK$5 million over 5 years.
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997. The value of the awards are about HKD900,000 for the Senior Research Fellowship. The award includes a personal grant of HKD60,000 to the recipient for research expenses. It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work as judged by leading international scientists invited to provide confidential reviews of candidates nominated in a competitive exercise. Funds are awarded to the universities of the fellowship recipients, enabling the university to recruit replacement teachers to take over the award winner’s duties for the period of the fellowship. This enables the awardees to devote more time and effort to research work.
Media enquiries:
Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU
Melanie Wan, Senior Manager (Media)
Tel: (852) 2859 2600,  Email: melwkwan@hku.hk
