[title]Hindu Goddess Blesses University Gamelan[/title]
[date]16 Nov 2005[/date]
 
The University Gamelan, an ensemble of the Department of Music of the University of Hong Kong, was blessed with a painting of the Hindu Goddess and an official reception to unveil that painting will be held this Friday evening.
During a fieldtrip to Bali last year, the performance by the University Gamelan deeply impressed Mr A A Gde Agung Bharata, the Mayor of the Ginyar Regency and a patron of the arts, and presented a painting of Sarasvati, the Hindu Goddess of art and learning, as a token of appreciation.
Sarasvati is the Hindu Goddess of all arts: music, painting, sculpture, dance and writing. She is credited with bequeathing the gift of writing to humankind so that her songs could be written down and preserved. She is depicted in this painting by well-known artist, Subrata from Batuan village, with four arms, one holding an indigenous bowed lute, another bestowing jeweled blessings alongside a peacock. Being the patroness of learning, pupils offer her their books and supplies before they begin classes, and her image often appears on the portals on school gates.
The gift is important for its symbolic value: the bond that it creates, and the potential for generating further exchange. Mr. Bharata has pledged to support future fieldtrips by providing accommodation for our students in Bali. He is also supporting a performance at the Hong Kong Cultural Centre on November 20, 2005 by the University Gamelan, directed by Dr. Manolete Mora, who is also the Associate Professor of Department of Music, and will send four leading Balinese dancers and musicians to participate in the event.
The Department of Music will unveil the painting at a reception on Friday, November 18, 2005 at 6:00pm in the Hung Hing Ying Building where the Department is located. Mr Bharata's secretary from Bali will attend the reception as well as members of the Indonesian Consulate General.
For enquiries, please contact the Department of Music of the University of Hong Kong at 2859 7045.
