[title]Professor Roland T. Chin appointed HKU Deputy Vice-Chancellor /Provost[/title]
[date]26 Jan 2010[/date]
 
Professor Roland T. Chin, a renowned academic leader with outstanding university development and management experience, has been appointed by the University of Hong Kong (HKU) as Deputy Vice-Chancellor/Provost.
The decision was made by the Council of HKU in a meeting today (January 26, 2010), upon the recommendation of the Search Committee and after consultations with the Senate, staff members and students.
The appointment was made after a thorough search process by the Search Committee through open recruitment locally and internationally. At the final stage of the recruitment exercise, six candidates out of a list of 40 had been shortlisted for interviews by the committee, which unanimously recommended Professor Chin to the Council.  
Professor Chin is currently Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Deputy President, and Chair Professor of Computer Science at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. 
He will succeed Professor Yue-Chim Richard Wong for a five-year term as the chief aide to the Vice-Chancellor, providing leadership to the management of the University.
Making the announcement today, HKU Council Chairman Dr Hon Leong Che-hung said: "As the University moves into its second century, there will be big challenges ahead. The Hong Kong higher education sector is at a very critical stage of change, with challenges from the introduction of the new 334 education system in 2012, and the move towards increased engagement with the Mainland and the international community. HKU has just announced its five-year strategic plan."
"I believe the Vice-Chancellor and Professor Chin, together with all other members of the University Senior Management, will work as a team to successfully fulfil the strategic goals of the University," he added.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui welcomed the appointment: "As the University continues to reach out and engage the world, Professor Roland Chin's distinguished academic achievements, and rich experience in administration and public service made him a most suitable candidate."
"I very much look forward to working in partnership with him to bring the University to new heights of academic excellence and international renown as one of the world's leading institutions of higher learning," he remarked.
Professor Chin is pleased to accept the appointment: "I am very honoured that the Council, the Vice-Chancellor, the staff and the students have entrusted me with their confidence in joining the University Senior Management to take HKU to even greater heights of excellence. I am looking forward to working with the students and the staff to help HKU become one of the premier world-class universities."
Professor Roland Chin joined the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 1992. Prior to serving as the university's Chair Professor of Computer Science, and the Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Deputy President, he was Head of the Department from 1996 to 2001 and the Vice-President for Research and Development from 2003 to 2006.
He was born in Macau, grew up in Hong Kong, and studied electrical engineering at the University of Missouri, Columbia.  He subsequently worked at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland for two years before joining the Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Wisconsin, Madison from 1981 to 1995.
Professor Chin has an outstanding research standing in the areas of computer vision, digital image processing, and pattern recognition, and has won numerous prestigious awards in the field. In teaching and learning, he has spearheaded the move to "reinventing undergraduate education" for the 334 transformation at HKUST.  He advocates well-rounded learning experience with flexible curricula, interdisciplinary education, broad-based knowledge acquisition, critical thinking and leadership development, global outlook, and out-of-classroom learning experiences.
He has served on numerous public bodies and is currently a member of the University Grants Committee (UGC), the Steering Committee on Innovation and Technology and the Commission on Strategic Development. He also serves on the Board of Nano and Advanced Materials Institute (NAMI) and Logistics and Supply Chain Management Institute (LSCM), and as the Board Chairman of HKEduCity.  Since 2005, he has been the Chairman of the Research Grants Council (RGC).
To see details of Roland T. Chin's Curriculum Vitae, please click http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/100126DVC-eng.doc
For photos of Professor Chin and the press conference, please visit http://www.hku.hk/media and check icon "Events" under "Photo Gallery".
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
