[title]HKU gets excellent results from RGC’s research funding schemes[/title]
[date]14 Jul 2016[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has received excellent results in the recent announcement by the Research Grants Council (RGC) on a number of competitive peer-reviewed research funding schemes.  
Principally, HKU competed in and secured the most research grants and the highest total grant quantum in the four major grant schemes, including 4 projects worth HK$140 million in the Theme-based Research Scheme (TRS), 233 projects worth a total of HK$157.5 million in the General Research Fund (GRF), 34 projects worth HK$22.9 million in the Early Career Scheme (ECS), as well as 2 projects worth HK$1.3 million in the Humanities and Social Sciences Prestigious Fellowship Scheme (HSSPFS).
HKU’s researchers have done very well in the sixth round of RGC’s TRS.  This is one of the most strategic and largest public funding schemes in terms of grant quantum in Hong Kong. The awarded projects have undergone a rigorous peer-review process and were selected for their academic excellence and potential impact to the long-term development of Hong Kong. 
Of the seven projects funded, HKU participates in all seven projects, and is charged to coordinate four of them  The following projects coordinated by HKU have been given a total budget valued at HK$140 million for a period of five years:
1.      Understanding Cancer Stemness in Liver Cancer - From Regulation to Translational Applications
(Project Coordinator: Professor Irene Oi-lin Ng, Department of Pathology, LKS Faculty of Medicine, HKU)
2.      Gastric Cancer Genomics and Beyond - Moving from Patient Samples to 3D Organoid Cultures for Integrative Genomics Analysis, Drug Sensitivity Assays, Cell Biological Studies and Animal Models
(Project Coordinator: Professor Leung Suet-yi, Department of Pathology, LKS Faculty of Medicine, HKU)
3.      Enhanced Separation and Sludge Refinery for Wastewater Treatment - Solving the Nexus of Pollution Control and Resource Recovery in Mega Cities
(Project Coordinator: Professor Li Xiao-yan, Department of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, HKU)
4.      Learning and Assessment for Digital Citizenship
(Project Coordinator: Professor Nancy Law Wai-ying, Faculty of Education, HKU)
For details of the TRS 2016/17 (Sixth Round) funding results, please visit: http://www.ugc.edu.hk/eng/rgc/theme/results/trs6.htm
Apart from TRS, HKU also has the highest number of approved projects and the largest share of approved funding among all local institutions for GRF (14th year in a row), ECS and HSSPFS. The GRF projects are an indication of the breadth, depth and quality of the research right across the HKU campus. Success in the ECS projects is a testimony of the calibre and quality of the young academic and research staff who have chosen to embark on their careers at HKU. Our competitiveness in the HSSPFS is a validation of the remarkable talents we have in the field of humanities and social sciences.
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson offered his warmest congratulations to all successful applicants and their research teams and wished them success in the deliverables of these projects.
Professor Mathieson called on all HKU members to work together to realise the University’s ambition: “The University’s Vision 2016-2025 captures our ambition to be Asia’s leading global university with cutting-edge research in critical areas through knowledge creation, translation, realisation and impact.”  
“We will continue to foster strategic collaboration and partnerships across institutions and continents. HKU is well placed to capitalise on prospective research opportunities as they emerge around the world, integrating Western and Eastern research scholarship. We will continue to advance research in terms of quality, impact, innovation value and community outcomes.” he said.
More details on HKU’s funding results can be found at: http://www.rss.hku.hk/funding/funding-results.
Media enquiries:
HKU Communications and Public Affairs Office Ms Rhea Leung (Tel: 2857 8555; Email: rhea.leung@hku.hk)
