[title]HKU Council Chairman Dr Leong Che-hung reappointed for another term[/title]
[date]30 Oct 2012[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) announced today (October 30) that the University’s Chancellor Mr Leung Chun-ying has reappointed Dr Leong Che-hung as Chairman of Council for another term of three years starting from November 7, 2012.
Dr Leong has been a member of the Council of the University since 2004, and assumed the Council Chairmanship on November 7, 2009.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui was delighted with the announcement. He said: “With the number of significant developments at the University currently in progress – including the launch of the 4-year undergraduate curriculum, the opening of the Centennial Campus, our ongoing vigorous research agenda and internationalisation endeavours, just to name a few – the continuity and experience in University governance that Dr Leong brings will be invaluable to the University.”
Upon his reappointment, Dr Leong remarked: “As many people know, my relationship with the University has truly been a life-long affair. I have been a student, a teacher and a Council member here, and I remain deeply interested in its development.
“The University is embracing some challenges ahead including the search for a new Vice Chancellor and Executive Vice-President, and I am glad that I would be able to continue to make contribution to such development.” 
Dr Leong stressed that the University in the next three years will follow the strategy that the Council has directed and that the Council will engage more with the stakeholders, especially the alumni, staff and students.
Five other Members of the University’s Council have also been reappointed by the Chancellor for three years starting from November 7, 2012.  They are Mr Lester G Huang, Mr Benjamin P C Hung, Mrs Ayesha M Lau, Mrs Margaret M Y Leung Ko, and Mr Martin C K Liao.
Dr York Liao has completed service for the University Council in the past six years, for which Dr Leong expressed his gratitude.  He also welcomed a newly appointed member Ms Leonie Ki Man-fung, who is an alumna of HKU, has made many contributions to the commercial sector and public service in Hong Kong, and is an Honorary University Fellow of HKU.
For enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  ; or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .

