[title]HKU ranks among the very best in the world[/title]
[date]08 Oct 2009[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong is pleased to learn that it has been ranked 24th amongst the top 200 universities globally by the Times Higher Education - Quacquarelli Symonds (THE-QS) World University Rankings this year. 
The THE-QS World University Rankings result released today (October 8) has placed HKU the best university in Hong Kong and China, and the second in Asia to the University of Toyko. 
The Times Higher rankings focus mainly on the strength of a university's teaching and research excellence, its reputation among its peers and its international outlook. Among the parameters used, the University saw improvements in the peer review scores, which were reflected across almost all the academic disciplines including Arts &amp; Humanities, Engineering &amp; Information Technology, Life Sciences &amp; Biomedicine, Social Sciences, and Natural Sciences, which saw the largest jump. The scores on staff-student ratios and percentage of international students also increased.  
HKU Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Lap-Chee Tsui attributed the University's reputation and success to the hard work, contributions and dedication of all members of the HKU community. 
 "The aggregate results point to one encouraging fact, however, and that is we are taking the right direction in internationalising the campus community and emphasising teaching and research. Our vision and strategic directions are increasingly recognised by our peers around the world."  
He said the University should continue to elevate the quality of teaching and learning, and to produce more academic and research work of high impact. 
 "At the same time, we should not forget about the University's mission to contribute to society and care for our community, two attributes yet to be taken into account in university rankings, but dear to us at the University of Hong Kong," remarked Professor Tsui. 
For full results of THE-QS World University Rankings, please go to: 
http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/Rankings2009-Top200.html
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk  

