[title]HKU ranks among the very best in the world[/title]
[date]08 Sep 2010[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong is pleased to learn that it has been ranked 23rd amongst the top 200 universities globally by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings this year, and as the top university in Asia. 
HKU Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Lap-Chee Tsui attributed the University's strong global standing and reputation to the hard work, contributions and dedication of all members of the HKU community, as well as to the abilities and achievements of HKU's students. He also congratulated fellow higher institutions in HK on their outstanding performance in the exercise.  
"It is of course gratifying for us to know that the University has again been ranked among the best in the world, and I am also heartened to see other Hong Kong universities in the top 50 as well", he said.  
"We should be cognisant, however, that rankings typically assess a number of different performance indicators at a university, each carrying a specific weight, and that there are different emphases in the choice of data and methodologies used in different analyses", he said.
The QS rankings, previously published as the QS Times Higher Education world university rankings, however, have used the same methodology now for the past five years or so.  Professor Tsui continued. "It is therefore possible to compare HKU year on year.  One conclusion we can draw from this longitudinal analysis is the consistency that HKU shows in its high scores on those criteria chosen by QS as important for the best universities worldwide."
"While we know that the success of a university cannot be solely judged by league tables and rankings, certain performance indicators used in the QS rankings also happen to have been areas in which HKU has traditionally been strong, such as academic peer review and internationalisation. We particularly value the respect of academic peers from around the world, because they are in the best position to understand the complexity of universities and their activities and goals", he added. 
For full results of QS World University Rankings, please go to: http://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2010/results
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk  

