[title]HKU Scoops Global Championship in CIMA Global Business Challenge 2010[/title]
[date]12 Aug 2010[/date]
 


Team Starlight (from left): Donna Cai – BSc (Actuarial Science), Ann Li – BBA (Acc &amp; Fin), Wency Hong – BBA (Acc &amp; Fin), Preston Huang – BSc (Mathematics)

A team of four students from the University of Hong Kong's Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) and Faculty of Science has won the Global Championship in the CIMA Global Business Challenge held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on August 6. 
The HKU team "Starlight" represented Hong Kong to compete at the global final following their championship in the regional final held earlier in June. 
The team competed intensely with the other 13 national champions from the UK, Ireland, Sri Lanka, India, mainland China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa, UAE, Philippines, Bangladesh and Australia in the final on a business case of a mobile network operator. 
Participating teams had to analyze and to present the business case in front of an audience of more than 500 people and a distinguished judging panel including Robert Arbuthnott, CFO, Asia Pacific, Barclays Capital; Kam Patel, Director, Barclays Capital; Mark Grill, CFO of IBM Malaysia and Ray Perry, Executive Director of CIMA. 
Starlight's highly analytical skills and professional approach and presentation won high praises from the panel of judges. "Team Starlight really shone for us because they were able to demonstrate the highest level of competency and business knowledge. They gave new business recommendations based upon the case study and the presentation was exceptionally professional," said Mr. Ray Perry, Executive Director of CIMA. 
Professor Eric Chang, Acting Dean of Faculty of Business and Economics said, "I would like to congratulate Starlight on its excellent achievement in this year's Global Business Challenge. We are extremely proud of these students who had just completed their Year One, and the mentors from FBE, who exemplified the Faculty's commitment to teaching excellence in all fronts to our students' development. ." 
The Global Business Challenge is an international competition designed to bring out the best in potential business leaders among young people. Organized by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the competition attracted over 10,000 students from 339 universities worldwide participated this year. 
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Mabel Fung
Senior Manager
Communications and Corporate Relations
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4716
Email: mbfung@hku.hk
About the Faculty of Business and Economics 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is Hong Kong's first and foremost university, with a history of nearly 100 years. Our alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government. 
HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics offers a full range of Bachelors and Masters degree programmes plus PhD degree and non-degree open enrollment and customized Executive Education programmes. 
Bachelor's degree programmes attract top students from Hong Kong and the region, with four ranking among HKU's top ten programmes in terms of average JUPAS entry scores (2009). More than 30% of HKU's elite students admitted via the "Early Admissions Scheme" (2009) choose the Faculty's programmes. 
The EMBA-Global Asia, jointly offered by Columbia Business School, London Business School and HKU Business School, is an expansion of the flagship EMBA-Global programme, which was ranked first in the world by the Financial Times in 2008. 
The full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with London Business School and Columbia Business School, has a strong Asia and China focus. Its unique features provide a rich and balanced education to students with local knowledge and global exposure. 
The International MBA offered in collaboration with Fudan University in Shanghai has twice been ranked "best of its kind" in Mainland China by the Academic Degrees Committee of the China State Council. 
While the Master of Economics programme has modeled its Hong Kong success with a similar programme launched in Shenzhen in collaboration with Peking University in 2005. Today, the Master of Finance programme in Shenzhen is offered in conjunction with either the Master of Economics or Master of Management programme of Peking University to bring together the rigorous training in finance and in economics/management of the two institutions.
The research excellence has enabled HKU to assume the position of the most successful university in Hong Kong in terms of securing competitive research funding from the Research Grants Council (RGC). 
For more information, please visit: www.fbe.hku.hk 
About CIMA
The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, founded in 1919, is the world's leading and largest professional body of management accountants, with 171,000 members and students operating in 165 countries, working at the heart of business. CIMA members and students work in industry, commerce and not-for-profit organisations. CIMA works closely with employers and sponsors leading-edge research, constantly updating its qualification, professional experience requirements and continuing professional development to ensure it remains the employers' choice when recruiting financially-trained business leaders. 
CIMA is committed to upholding the highest ethical and professional standards of members and students, and to maintaining public confidence in management accountancy.
According to independent research conducted by the University of Bath School of Management, CIMA's syllabus and examination structure are the most relevant to the needs of business of all the accountancy bodies assessed. See the CIMA Difference report for further information at www.cimaglobal.com/thecimadifference. CIMA has been awarded Superbrand status in the UK for a third year in a row this year and for the first time in Sri Lanka. 
 

