[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No.1 in Asia by The Economist
Global Ranking leaps 17 places to enter Top 25 MBA Programmes[/title]
[date]11 Oct 2013[/date]
 
(October 11, 2013, Hong Kong) In the latest World MBA Rankings released by The Economist today, HKU’s MBA Programme is again ranked No. 1 in Asia for the fourth consecutive year since 2010.  HKU MBA is now one of the Top 25 MBA Programmes in the world, its global ranking leaps 17 places from No. 41 in 2012 to No. 24 this year.
Professor Eric C. Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong, said, “Being the best in Asia for the fourth consecutive year and one of the top 25 programmes in the world, HKU MBA is dedicated to providing first-class business education to leaders that target career advancement, career switch and individual enrichment.  We do not only offer the most up-to-date business knowledge of the dynamic international environment but also the exposure, network and soft skills enhancement essential for professional and personal development.  We believe our MBA students and alumni will translate the skills and knowledge they have acquired at HKU into practices that bring positive influence to the business world.”
Dr. Maurice Tse, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, remarked, “HKU MBA students operate in a region as diverse as it is vast, a region of many peoples and cultures, where evolving political regimes contend with global trends and modern technologies to shape market institutions.  This is an era in which transnational companies, both large and small, must find their own ever-shifting niches in fast-moving ever-changing markets.   HKU MBA graduates are equipped to operate in situations in which the only certainty is uncertainty.  We expect from our students a strong commitment to personal and professional development, to high ethical standards, to innovation and exploration, and to public and community service."
Dr. Christine Chan, Assistant Dean (MBA) was very delighted to hear the good news, “To our students, developing business contacts and personal networks is an integral part of the MBA education.  In future, we will continue to foster strategic cooperation with the business community so as to strengthen the position of HKU MBA as well as to make the Programme more competitive.  We shall ceaselessly introduce latest market information to our students and fully support our graduands and alumni to strive for career development in accord with their goals and interests.”
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Executive Director of HKU MBA Programme, added, “We highly value interaction between alumni and students that make the Programme more competitive and more conducive to knowledge and experience exchange.  We have the Mentorship Programme to connect students with seasoned graduates and we have helped establish regional alumni chapters to strengthen their networks. All the diversified value-added components of the Programme will further our students’ advancement beyond intellectual growth and secure them with brighter prospects.”
With strong demands from the globe, the HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale, providing week-end modules, market-oriented and/or China- and Asia-focused electives.  With students coming from different parts of the world, HKU MBA is multinational and international.  HKU also enhances the career development services covering career counselling and coaching as well as job placement which are tailor-made to fit the career goals, aspirations and directions of different students.
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
 Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
 Personal development and educational experience
 Increase salary
 Potential to network
For media enquiries, please contact:
Helen Wong
Assistant Director of Communications
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 6199 6988 / +852 3917 4311
Email: hgewong@hku.hk
Cynthy Tang
Assistant Communications Manager
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 3917 4488
Email: cyntang@hku.hk
