[title]HKU Students Win the Hong Kong Regional Championship in CIMA Global Business Challenge 2010[/title]
[date]14 Jul 2010[/date]
 


Members of the winning team (from 2nd left): Donna Cai – BSc (Actuarial Science), Ann Li – BBA (Acc &amp; Fin), Wency Hong – BBA (Acc &amp; Fin) &amp; Preston Huang – BSc (Mathematics)

Team "Starlight" comprised of four students from the University of Hong Kong has won the Hong Kong Regional Final of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) Global Business Challenge held on June 19, 2010.  
Under the mentorship of Ada Wong of the Faculty of Business and Economics, four students from the Faculty of Business and Economics and Science won the regional final over more than 150 participating teams in Hong Kong on a business case of a mobile network operator. 
The CIMA Global Business Challenge is an international business management competition aimed at university undergraduates and has been developed to bring out the best in the potential business leaders of tomorrow.  Participating teams has to analyze, report and present on a CIMA case study. 
Four teams were selected among the 150+ participating teams to a final round of presentation of their proposals in front of a judging panel of business and community leaders.  The HKU team's outstanding analytical capabilities and excellent presentation skills had impressed the panel of judges and had won them the regional champion title.  "Starlight is a real shining star in this tough competition." commented Mr. Richard Kenworthy, Divisional VP of CIMA Hong Kong, "HKU is nurturing students with strong management and accounting skills which is very important for Hong Kong to remain as one of China's leading commercial hubs."   
The Starlight team will represent Hong Kong at the Global Final in Malaysia on August  5-6, 2010 to compete with other teams come from the UK, Ireland, Sri Lanka, Philippines, India, China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa, UAE and Australia for the Global Challenge. 
For winning team details, please visit http://www.hku.hk/cpaoesite/press/100714fbe-eng   
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Mabel Fung
Senior Manager
Communications and Corporate Relations
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4716
Email: mbfung@hku.hk

