[title]HKU academic receives inaugural University Grants Committee Teaching Award 2011[/title]
[date]09 Sep 2011[/date]
 
Mr Richard A Glofcheski, Associate Professor in the Department of Law of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), was presented with the inaugural University Grants Committee (UGC) Teaching Award.
The award honours academics in the UGC-funded institutions for their teaching performance and achievements, as well as their leadership in and scholarly contribution to teaching and learning within and across institutions.
In a message to HKU staff and students, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said how pleased and proud he was to hear the news, adding: "Rick has taught at the University for over twenty years and is well-known to his colleagues and students for his relentless pursuit of excellence in teaching."
"He was awarded a University Teaching Fellowship in 2004, the Outstanding Teaching Award in 2008 and most recently the University Distinguished Teaching Award in 2009," said Professor Tsui.
Mr Glofcheski said that having the recognition of the academy was important and a reminder that teaching and learning was the very core mission of the University.
His message to his fellow teachers was: "We can only learn to be better teachers through our students. It is only by engaging students and their learning and by reflecting on that learning that we can learn to become better teachers. My students have inspired and motivated me to new ways of thinking, new ways of thinking about learning."
He dedicated his award to his students, noting: "I have learned much from my students. They have taught me a lot."
The UGC's Awards Citations describes Mr Glofcheski as being "an imaginative and innovative teacher-scholar. He is strongly committed to using creative approaches to assessing student learning, and he raises the awareness of the important role of assessment for learning both within his institution and internationally.
He has developed localised teaching materials in the Hong Kong context and used them to cultivate a wider civic awareness in his students.
He is clearly an exceptional educator whose work will bring about positive and long-term impact on the culture of assessment and hence learning and teaching in the entire UGC sector."
Further details from the UGC about the award can be found at http://www.ugc.edu.hk/eng/ugc/publication/press/2011/pr08092011.htm
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
Mr Richard A Glofcheski receives inaugural UGC Teaching Award (UGC photo)
 
Mr Richard A Glofcheski receives inaugural UGC Teaching Award (UGC photo)
 
Mr Richard A Glofcheski



