[title]HKU launches Bachelor of Biomedical Sciences Programme[/title]
[date]26 Oct 2011[/date]
 
To meet the increasing demand of well-trained biomedical scientists worldwide, the University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine announces that in the academic year 2012-13, the Faculty will offer a new full-time credit-based programme leading to the award of a Bachelor of Biomedical Sciences Degree (BBiomedSc). This is the first independent Biomedical Sciences undergraduate programme offered by local universities in Hong Kong, which is now opened for application by students with Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) qualification. 20 places will be available for the 2012-13 cohort. With an excellent track record in biomedical research and a strong team of biomedical scientists, the Medical Faculty ensures this would be a strong and sustainable programme with international benchmarking and recognition.
Features of the Curriculum
The HKU BBiomedSc is a 4-year programme aiming to recruit students who are interested in both medical and basic science, and aspire to become a biomedical scientist.
With over 120 years of history in medical education, the Faculty provides a high-quality and multidisciplinary learning environment for students of this programme.
There are 3 focuses of the biomedical sciences programme core courses, including life science &amp; health, disease mechanisms and technologies. Students will be provided a core knowledge base of key biomedical disciplines, at the same time, exposure to fundamental understanding of scientific basis of human health and disease, and modern technologies in biomedicine.
The HKU Medical Faculty is formed by world class clinical departments with distinguished achievements in both clinical and basic science research. Our teachers will provide high quality teaching to students not only in the broad fields of biomedical sciences but also specialized courses in distinctive areas such as stem cell biology, cancer biology, genomic science, immunology and infection.
Career Prospects
The graduates of this programme will be well-trained to develop careers in areas such as research in university, government or medical laboratories; research and development for pharmaceutical, diagnostics, medical devices and laboratory instrumentation industries; and management and business development of the related industries; clinical trials management; media and communication; and health promotion, education, hospital administration and health care planning in the government sector. They will also acquire an excellent base for future study at the level of MPhil/ PhD.
Admission Requirements
Candidates should satisfy the University's entrance requirements. For applicants with Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) qualification, they should achieve a certain level of performance in four core subjects including English (Level 4), Chinese (Level 3), Mathematics (Level 2) and Liberal Studies (Level 2). At the same time, they should attain at least Level 3 in two electives, one of which must be Biology, or Chemistry, or Combined Science with Biology as one of the components; or Combined Science with Chemistry as one of the components. The Faculty aims to recruit high calibre students with outstanding academic performances.
Why HKU launches Biomedical Sciences programme?
It is believed the biomedical industry will continue to experience explosive growth in the years to come and the demand for well-trained biomedical scientists will be enormous. Many universities worldwide have biomedical sciences undergraduate programmes to provide appropriate training for modern biomedical scientists and healthcare professionals. However there is no independent programme in the whole tertiary education sector in Hong Kong that would enable students to pursue their interest in biomedical sciences at the undergraduate level. HKU fills this gap by launching the BBiomedSc programme at this perfect timing.
About Biomedical Sciences
Biomedical sciences cover a wide-range of scientific and allied disciplines, including molecular and cell biology, genetics and genome science, bioinformatics, anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, biological and medicinal chemistry, immunology, microbiology and public health. The study of biomedical sciences focuses on the relationships between humans, health, and mechanism of disease, translating biomedical applications of basic sciences to the clinical practices of health services and healthcare industry. 


 
(From left) Dr. Maria WONG Pik, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; Professor YUEN Kwok-yung, Henry Fok Professor in Infectious Diseases &amp; Chair Professor, Department of Microbiology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine; Dr. SHAM Mai-har, Head of Department of Biochemistry, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine and Professor CHAN Ying-shing, Associate Dean for Academic Networking &amp; Student Affairs and Professor, Department of Physiology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine put the missing piece to the puzzle, symbolizing the launch of the Bachelor of Biomedical Sciences programme at the Faculty.
 
Professor CHAN Ying-shing, Associate Dean for Academic Networking &amp; Student Affairs and Professor, Department of Physiology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said the new programme enables students to pursue their interest in biomedical sciences and fills the gap of training such talents at the undergraduate level.
 
Professor YUEN Kwok-yung, Henry Fok Professor in Infectious Diseases &amp; Chair Professor, Department of Microbiology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, said well-trained biomedical scientists are essential for the worldwide medical advancement.
 
Dr. SHAM Mai-har, Head of Department of Biochemistry, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said focuses of the biomedical sciences programme includes life science &amp; health, disease mechanisms and technologies.
 
Dr. Maria WONG Pik, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine said the graduates of the new programme may pursue a scientific career such as research in university, government or medical laboratories.



