[title]HKU and HSBC announce Hong Kong’s First Comprehensive Research-cum-Public Education Programme on Climate Change and Local Forests[/title]
[date]25 Jun 2011[/date]
 
A quadripartite partnership has made a scientific research cum public education programme on climate change and forests possible in Hong Kong. It is an invaluable opportunity that combines the efforts from the Government, business sector, NGO and the University to tackle the global issue of Climate Change through local action on public education and scientific research.
The launch of the project "Global Forest Observatory: Public Involvement and Training in Scientific Research in Hong Kong" signifies a number of important milestones for Hong Kong: it is Hong Kong's FIRST research attempt to investigate the impacts of climate change on forest dynamics; it is also Hong Kong's FIRST and currently the ONLY Forest Dynamic Plot (FDP) joining the international research programme co-ordinated by the Harvard University's Center for Tropical Forest Science (CTFS) and the Smithsonian Institution.
The Kadoorie Institute of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has received a HK$5.9M donation from the Hongkong Bank Foundation to implement the first three years (2011-14) of the Project with the dual aims: to establish a 20ha observatory forest plot in Tai Po Kau Nature Reserve to investigate the impacts of climate change on forests dynamics; and to establish a 1ha demonstration plot in Shek Kong to provide training opportunity for the public to engage in the research.
 "This Project is one of the Hongkong Bank Foundation's most significant community investments in recent years. This is a milestone not just for the academic community but also for all people in Hong Kong, because we can now directly contribute to a major international forest research in our own city through the learning and volunteering activities that come with this Project. In the coming years, HSBC will commit our staff volunteers to support this important work," said Ms. Teresa Au, Head of Corporate Sustainability, Asia Pacific Region, HSBC.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, HKU Vice-Chancellor and President, said, "I am pleased to see that the Kadoorie Institute of the University of Hong Kong has initiated this Global Forest Observatory Project, which will combine scientific research with public engagement and education. The Project is an example of how the University puts Knowledge Exchange into action, where members of the public and corporations can also play a part in scientific research." "While the observatory site will be monitored for scientific research on forest sciences and climate change, the demonstration plot is an opportunity to provide education and training  for teachers, students, people working in the relevant fields and the public at large."
"This will be Hong Kong's first research attempt to investigate the long-term forest dynamics and the impact of global climate change on subtropical forests. It will also be Hong Kong's first and, to date, the only Forest Dynamic Plot set up to join the international research programme initiated by the Center for Tropical Forest Science of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute at Harvard University." Professor Tsui added.
 "We believe that the Project will bring about benefits to Hong Kong, especially by raising public's awareness on issues of climate change and their care for our natural environment. The Government is happy to support such a meaningful project and we hope to see more of these kinds of partnerships to come," added Mr. Joseph Sham, Assistant Director, Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department.
Other officiating guests include Mr. Andy Brown from the Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden, Professor Peter Hills from the Kadoorie Institute of HKU and Dr. Stuart Davies from the Harvard University. The ceremony has unveiled the Project's plaque and has laid down the first set of forest survey pegs in the demonstration plot to signify the launch of the Project. A guided tour was also arranged to visit the 1ha demonstration plot where some 30 volunteers from HSBC were conducting the first tree survey.  
For the Fact sheet and the Ceremony Rundown, please visit :http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/110625GFOe.doc
For VC's speech, please visit : http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/110625VC.pdf
Media inquiries: The Kadoorie Institute, HKU: Ms. Joyce CHOW (2219-4761/9252-5780) or Ms. Regina LO (2219-4762/9748-2728) 
