[title]Bard Music Festival: Tchaikovsky’s Chamber Music[/title]
[date]10 Jun 2012[/date]
 

The Bard Music Festival and the Bard College Conservatory of Music have joined forces for their first international tour. They held their first performance in Hong Kong at the University's Loke Yew Hall on 9 June 2012 (Saturday).
The concert featured two of the composer's chamber works: String Quartet No. 1 in D Major, Op. 11 and String Sextet in D Minor, "Souvenir de Florence," Op. 70 - one early piece and one from his years of maturity. The concert was preceded by a talk by Dr Chan Hing-yan, Chairperson of the University's Department of Music, on Tchaikovsky and his chamber music.
The event was co-organized by the Bard College Conservatory of Music, Faculty of Arts, and the Music Department of the University of Hong Kong.
About the Bard Music Festival
Founded in 1990, the Bard Music Festival has established its unique identity in the classical concert field by presenting programmes that through performance and discussion, place selected works in the cultural and social context of the composer's world. Programmes of the Bard Music Festival offer a point of view.
By providing an illuminating context, the festival encourages listeners and musicians alike to rediscover the powerful, expressive nature of familiar compositions and to become acquainted with less well-known works.
Media enquiries, please contact: Ms Georgina Challen, Public Affairs Manager, Faculty of Arts (tel: 2219 4250 email: gchallen@hku.hk ) or Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Faculty of Arts, HKU (tel: 2859 8048, email: kpmak@hku.hk).


 
Tchaikovsky's String Sextet in D Minor, “Souvenir de Florence,” Op. 70 played by Bard musicians including Weigang Li (violin), Dongfang Ouyang (violin), Melvin Chen (viola), Lin Wang (viola), Robert Martin (cello), Rylan Gajek-Leonard (cello)
 
Tchaikovsky's String Sextet in D Minor, “Souvenir de Florence,” Op. 70 played by Bard musicians including Weigang Li (violin), Dongfang Ouyang (violin), Melvin Chen (viola), Lin Wang (viola), Robert Martin (cello), Rylan Gajek-Leonard (cello)
 
Tchaikovsky's String Quartet No. 1 in D Major, Op. 11 played by Bard musicians including Jiazhi Wang (violin), Erica Kiesewetter (violin), Wei Peng (viola), Jeannette Brent (cello)
 
A pre-concert talk by Dr Chan Hing-yan, Chairperson of the University’s Department of Music, on Tchaikovsky and his chamber music


