[title]HKU Campus Masterplan Selected[/title]
[date]29 May 2006[/date]
 


(Hong Kong, 29 May 2006) Following the ideas generation exercise which the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has initiated in order to engage all its stakeholders for determining the masterplanning concept for both its Main Campus and the Centennial Campus, HKU today announced that it would award the consultancy contract to Wong &amp; Ouyang (HK) Ltd./ Sasaki Associates, Inc. to further develop the masterplan. Earlier this year, four architectural consortia, namely LD Asia / Capita Percy Thomas; Dennis Lau &amp; Ng Chun Man Architects &amp; Engineers (H.K.) Ltd. / Skidmore Owings and Merrill; Wong &amp; Ouyang (HK) Ltd./ Sasaki Associates, Inc. and Leigh &amp; Orange Ltd. / Ayers/Saint/Gross Architects &amp; Planners submitted concept designs to the University.The models were unveiled in February and subsequently exhibited both within and outside the University for over 10 weeks until the end of April so that interested parties could view and feedback their thoughts on different aspects of the concept design models.Such attempt to consult and engage the community reflects the University's strong commitment to involve all its stakeholders in developing a University District
Over 18,000 visitors visited the roving exhibition of the concept design models and more than 800 completed questionnaires were collected. 
'Members of the public clearly indicated that consciousness of environmental, ecological, sustainability and heritage issues, efficient use of space, effective integration and cost-effectiveness were most important in the planning and designing of the Centennial Campus,' remarked Professor John Malpas, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Chairman of the Project Group for the Centennial Campus and Main Campus Redevlopment.
'This coincides with the view of the Project Group which, after much deliberation, recently selected Wong &amp; Ouyang (HK) Ltd./ Sasaki Associates, Inc. to further develop the masterplan for the Project,' continued Professor Malpas. 
'We would like to take this opportunity to thank the community for sharing their views and participating in this first stage of the project. We are also immensely grateful to the consortia for their excellent contributions.Each submission has its merit and has given us much food for thought, as well as concrete ideas on how we should proceed.The future development of the campus will indeed benefit from this wider, inspirational exercise, and the ideas generated by the consortia in this exercise will be fully acknowledged and documented in the future,' concluded Professor Malpas. 
The selected consortium will develop the proposed masterplanning concept further.It will also help address infra-structural issues and develop the brief for the next stage of the building design.
As part of its community engagement efforts, the University will continue consultation with stakeholders through a series of workshops and charettes in the next few months.This will helpformulate input for the design process starting towards the end of 2006. Community engagement will continue throughout the project, with the University working in close collaboration with all its stakeholders, in particular the Central and Western District Council. 
For media enquiries, please contact Miss Janet Yeung (Tel: 2857-8555 / 9374-0579), Centennial Campus Development Office, the University of Hong Kong.

 


Picture 1
 
Picture 2

Picture 3
 
 
 
 
