[title]Response to media enquiries[/title]
[date]18 Aug 2006[/date]
 
In response to the article of "Bachelor of Social Work (Part-time) Programme without Accreditation" on Today's Singtao Daily (August 18, 2006), please find the comments as follows:
1. The part-time programme is a recognized Bachelor of Social Work (B.S.W.) degree programme.The academic contents of the full time and part-time programmes are the same.Both full time and part time B.S.W. programmes lead to the same degree "Bachelor of Social Work".
2. The B.S.W. programme is a recognized degree programme for the purpose of registration under the jurisdiction of the Social Workers Registration Board (SWRB).
3. All current students enrolled in the B.S.W. (Part-time) programmes possess the qualification of being registered social workers and thus their professional status will not be affected.
4. The Department has admitted that, to avoid any doubt, it should have clarified the issue with the SWRB before launching the programme.For this reason, the Head of the Department has apologized to the students as he understands that this incident has aroused concern.In addition, the Department will send the finalized package of documents to the SWRB within one week for the purpose of accreditation and has also notified the SWRB of the same.
5. According to the experience of the SWRB, it will normally take 3 to 9 months to complete the process.As the part-time B.S.W. programme is the same in content as the full time B.S.W. programme, except that holders of Diploma/High Diploma/ Associate Degree in Social Work will be allowed to be exempted up to 54 credits. The Department has confidence that the part time mode of the B.S.W. programme will be added to the list of programmes accredited by the SWRB before the first batch of students graduate in 2007-2008.
6. The Department has maintained close contact with the students.The Head of Department has met them formally and obtained their understanding of the situation.The Department will also keep them updated of the latest development.
Should you have any inquiries, please contact Dr. C.K. Law of Department of Social Work and Social Administration, the Faculty of Social Sciences, The University of Hong Kong at 9027-4587.
