[title]HKU Faculty of Engineering holds Engineering Centenary Gala Dinner[/title]
[date]07 Nov 2012[/date]
 
The Faculty of Engineering (Faculty) of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) held yesterday (November 6, 2012) the finale of its centenary celebrations, the “Engineering Centenary Gala Dinner”. It took place at the Grand Hall of Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (New Wing) where 1,500 guests filled over 130 tables, thanks to the overwhelming support from the Faculty’s alumni, staff, students and friends in making this memorable event a reality.
The Honourable Mrs Carrie LAM CHENG Yuet-ngor, GBS, JP, Chief Secretary for Administration, was invited as the Guest-of-Honour and delivered a thoughtful speech. Sir Sze-yuen CHUNG, GBE, GBM, a prominent alumnus from the Faculty of Engineering also attended the event, and his brief but resonating speech became the highlight of the dinner.
Professor Norman C TIEN, Dean of the Faculty, said: “The Faculty has cultivated countless outstanding alumni who have contributed to the development of Hong Kong’s society and to the world. Many of them have also become leaders in various industries. The Engineering Centenary Gala Dinner is a joyful occasion when our guests, alumni, staff and students can gather and celebrate our shared history and this historic moment. It has been an enjoyable evening, reminiscing on the Faculty’s past challenges and glories, and looking ahead with wonder to the many exciting engineering developments that lie just on the horizon.”
The creative Tribute to the Glorious 100 Years of the Faculty of Engineering, which combined video and sand paintings, was one of the highlights of the dinner programme. It was designed to look back on the Faculty’s contribution to the development of housing, transportation, energy, water and manufacturing industry in the society of Hong Kong over the past century. The Faculty also released its Centenary Publication, which provides a record of its achievements in training expertise over the century.
For enquiries please contact Ms Kelly Lam, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2859 2435 / Email: lamkelly@hku.hk).

Officiating Guests and Corporate Sponsors of
Engineering Centenary Celebration

The Cake Cutting Ceremony


Toasting

Speech by Guest-of-Honour
Mrs Carrie LAM CHENG Yuet-ngor


Welcome Speech by Professor Norman C TIEN,
Dean of Faculty of Engineering

Welcome Speech by Ir MAK Yee Wa, Eva, Chairlady of Engineering Centenary Gala Dinner Organising Committee


Welcome Speech by Dr Joseph CHOW Ming Kuen,
Chairman of Centenary Celebration Organising Committee

HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee TSUI
presents souvenir to the Guest-of-Honour
Mrs Carrie LAM CHENG Yuet-ngor



