[title]HKU research team awarded State National Basic Research Program funding to research on the neurophysiological basis of Chinese language users[/title]
[date]05 Jan 2012[/date]
 
A research team led by Professor Li-Hai Tan, Director of State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Science at the University of Hong Kong (HKU), has recently been awarded a grant of RMB 39million (about HKD 47 million) from the National Basic Research Program (also known as the "973" Program) organized and implemented by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China.
The team, composed of 25 researchers from Hong Kong, mainland China, and foreign institutions, will conduct experiments to identify brain areas underlying Chinese reading and speaking and investigate the neurogenetic basis for Chinese language disorders. The proposed research will be a multidisciplinary endeavor, including language science, neurosurgery, molecular genetics, neuroimaging, psychology, computer science, and electrophysiology.
This is the first 973 program grant awarded to a Hong Kong tertiary institution and led by a Hong Kong scientist since the 973 Program was launched in 1997. This is also the first research project that the HKU Shenzhen Institute of Research and Innovation has received from the Central Government.
Millions of Chinese people suffer from language and reading disorders. These disorders may be caused by brain malformation (e.g., dyslexia, brain palsy), or by brain diseases such as stroke, brain tumor, and epilepsy.  "This project will help to develop a technique to minimize language deficits associated with brain-tumor resection or the surgery for epilepsy patients", said Professor Tan.
Language is a significant tool for human communication and learning. Written Chinese, which is a typical example that follows the ideographic or logographic principle, uses square-shaped characters. Western languages such as English, on the other hand, follow the phonographic principle. In addition, spoken Chinese represents different meanings by using different tones; English, however, does not have this tonal feature. Previous studies of Professor Tan and some of his team members found that the processing of different languages recruits different brain language areas. Their research findings have already been published in a number of well-respected international journals.
The proposed research aims to investigate the neurodevelopment of Chinese reading and speaking. It also intends to identify candidate genes causing Chinese language disorders such as dyslexia and stuttering. It is hoped that an identification of genes will advance our knowledge of the biological cause of language deficits and lead to the development of improved diagnostic and intervention strategies for affected individuals.
The National Basic Research Program (973 Program) 
The is China's on-going national keystone basic research program, approved by the Chinese government in 1997. The strategic objectives of the 973 Program are to support projects that addresses important scientific issues concerning China's economic and social development and that are at the forefront of science. The 973 Program funds projects in nine areas: agriculture, energy, information, resources and environment, population and health, material science, mechanics, multidisciplinarity, and important scientific frontiers.
The HKU Shenzhen Institute of Research and Innovation (SIRI)
The institute was incorporated in March 2011. One of the development strategies of HKU for the years 2009 to 2014 is to create an environment that supports academic research; therefore, the setting-up of HKU-SIRI corresponds with the University's key plans. HKU-SIRI is an integral part and an extension into the Chinese Mainland of the research conducted by HKU, and it also plays an important role in transferring science and technology from HKU to the Mainland.
To better serve economic construction and social development through scientific research, HKU-SIRI promotes hi-tech, knowledge transfer, industry incubation, the introduction of key laboratories and research centers, and focuses on strengthening the partnerships between HKU, Shenzhen, the Pearl River Delta and the entire Chinese industry.
Looking forward, HKU-SIRI will provide research and development in high-end and cutting-edge disciplines, support and enhance the capacity of independent innovation. Conversely, Shenzhen's economic development, corporate power, and entrepreneurship can provide HKU with a new platform for future development.
HKU-SIRI has recently been granted funding for three projects under the National Key Basic Research Development Program (973 Program):
1) Brain mechanisms underlying Chinese language processing and the neurogenetic basis for its disorder
Chief Scientist: Prof. TAN Lihai (Department of Linguistics):
2) Power System Planning and Operation with Large-Scale Wind Integration
Project Leader: Prof. WU Fuli (Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering)
3) Aeroacoustics and Advanced Noise Control for Large Passenger Aircraft
Project Leader: Dr. HUANG Lixi (Department of Mechanical Engineering)
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: (852) 2859 2606; email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: (852) 2859 2600; email: melwkwan@hku.hk
