[title]HKU unveils sculpture in recognition of Dr Stanley Ho[/title]
[date]18 Feb 2014[/date]
 


The sculpture, Fortiter in re, Suaviter in modo “外圓内方”, was unveiled at the Centennial Garden of the Centennial Campus today (February 18) in recognition of the remarkable contributions from Dr Stanley Ho to the advancement of the University of Hong Kong (HKU).

The Stanley Ho Alumni Challenge was launched in 2005. It was a matching scheme through which every dollar donated by alumni was matched dollar for dollar by Dr Stanley Ho, up to HK$100 million a year for five years. The Challenge was completed in 2010 with HKU having received a total of HK$500 million in donations from more than 13,000 alumni. With the matching from Dr Ho, the total gift to HKU amounted to HK$1 billion.
 Fortiter in re, Suaviter in modo
Concept: Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
Design: Professor Norman Ko
Calligraphy: Dr Ambrose So
At the ceremony, Dr Ho said: “I am deeply honoured that my Alma Mater has erected this sculpture.  My grateful thanks also go to my fellow alumni who participated in The Stanley Ho Alumni Challenge, which I initiated in 2005.  Thank you very much for sharing my dream and contributing together to the ongoing growth and development of HKU!”
The Challenge has created a new culture of alumni giving. In the first year of the Challenge, donations from alumni increased by over 600% and the number of alumni donors increased by over 200%.

Over 100 departments and 500 programmes - from student development activities to pioneering research, cultural and humanities programmes to the Centennial Campus - benefitted from the scheme.
The scheme received a Gold Award in the category of Fundraising Programs from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) in 2007.  The judges described the scheme as "extraordinary" in how it had inspired a new and unprecedented culture of alumni giving in Hong Kong.
The concept of the sculpture was originated by Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and it was designed by Professor Norman Ko Wah-Man. The name of the sculpture, Fortiter in re, Suaviter in modo, meaning “resolute in execution, gentle in manner" or "vigorous in deed, gentle in manner” was adopted from a writing by the Very Rev. Claudio Acquaviva, S.J. (1543 –1615), an Italian Jesuit priest who was elected as the 5th Superior General of the Society of Jesus. The Chinese name of the sculpture “外圓内方” is taken from the History of Later Han Dynasty (後漢書), which has a similar meaning about interacting with others. “Most important is the name of this sculpture, ”外圓内方”, which in all three languages truly reflects the warmth, humanity and dedication that Dr Ho has instilled in all of us at HKU,” said Professor Tsui.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk ; or Ms Janet Chung (Director of Alumni Affairs, Development &amp; Alumni Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2608 email: jpfchung@hku.hk.

HKU unveils sculpture in recognition of Dr Stanley Ho




