[title]HKU Convocation Standing Committee announces Extraordinary General Meeting voting results[/title]
[date]02 Sep 2015[/date]
 

(From left) Mr Tai Keen-man, HKU Convocation Standing Committee Member; Ms  Lesley Yeung, Director, Head of Assurance, BDO Limited; HKU Convocation Chairman Mr John Wan and Deputy Chairman Dr Patrick Poon
The Convocation of the University of Hong Kong (HKU Convocation) held an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) on September 1, 2015 from 7pm to 10:30pm at Hall 3G, Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. This EGM was convened, pursuant to the Constitution &amp; Rules of Convocation, at three written requests with a total of 6 motions, received by the Chairman of Convocation.
HKU Convocation engaged BDO Limited to conduct an independent counting of votes. HKU Convocation Chairman Mr John Wan, Deputy Chairman Dr Patrick Poon and Standing Committee Member Mr Tai Keen-man presided at the press briefing to announce the voting results.
HKU Convocation is a statutory body established in accordance with The University of Hong Kong Ordinance. It comprises all HKU graduates and teachers.

Number of HKU Convocation Members: 162,000
Number of HKU Convocation Members entitled to vote present or by proxy (“Registered Voters”) at this EGM: 9,298
HKU Convocation Rule 19 provides that all resolutions or motions which may be put to vote at a general meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members entitled to vote present in person or by proxy. Therefore, any resolution or motion shall be passed upon receiving 4,650 or more votes which are voted FOR that resolution or motion.
Voting was conducted for the 6 motions. The numbers of votes for each motion are provided by BDO Limited, as attached. Or visit HKU Convocation’s website: www.convocation.hku.hk.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk; or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2857 8555 email:rhea.leung@hku.hk.
