[title]HKU Faculty of Dentistry Associate Professor receives UGC Teaching Award 2015[/title]
[date]09 Sep 2015[/date]
 


Dr Michael Botelho, Associate Professor in Oral Rehabilitation, Faculty of Dentistry, HKU

The University Grants Committee (UGC) presented its Teaching Awards at a Ceremony today (September 9). Dr Michael Botelho, Associate Professor in Oral Rehabilitation from the Faculty of Dentistry, University of Hong Kong is one of the winners.
The UGC launched the Teaching Award in 2011 to honour academics in the UGC-funded institutions for their outstanding performance and achievements, as well as their leadership in and scholarly contributions to teaching and learning within and across institutions.
In his nearly two decades of teaching and research in the University, Dr Botelho has distinguished himself with a reputation as a committed and diligent educator in diverse areas of dental education including simulation laboratory skills learning, assessment, clinical teaching, e-learning, problem-based learning and curriculum reform and innovation.
Dr Botelho personally has adopted a student centred approach to teaching and learning using collaborative activities to engage students in dialogue, peer teaching and learning through the use of problem scenarios that are situated in clinical context and relevancy. This dynamic approach stimulates students’ knowledge exploration and application so as to allow them to easily apply this in future clinical situations. This student centered dialogic approach also allows staff members to have insights into students’ levels of understanding which allows specific opportunities for meaningful support.

HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson said the achievements of the awardees of the prestigious UGC Teaching Awards exemplified the teaching excellence of the University.
“It is most encouraging to note that four of our colleagues have been conferred this prestigious Award in the past five exercises, which is clear evidence of the University’s excellence in teaching and learning”, said Professor Mathieson.
The Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry Professor Thomas Flemmig said: “The Award is a testament to our staff’s outstanding achievements in the teaching of undergraduate and postgraduate students and once again, confirms the Faculty’s position as a leader in dental education!”
For media enquiries, please contact HKU Faculty of Dentistry, Tel: 2859 0494; E-mail: dentke@hku.hk.


