[title]HKU releases the Strategic Development 2009-2014 to guide the university to reach new heights[/title]
[date]17 Dec 2009[/date]
 


Strategic Development 2009-2014

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) released a new strategic development document today (December 17) which will guide the university to reach greater heights of academic excellence and international renown as one of the world's leading institutions of higher learning in the next five years.
Three strategic themes are set out in the Strategic Development 2009-2014, namely "Enhancing the student learning experience", "Advancing research and innovation" and "Promoting knowledge exchange and demonstrating leadership in communities across the region".
In a mass mail introducing the strategic plan to staff, students and alumni, HKU Vice-chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "We wish to advance our global competitiveness and regional engagement, especially with the rest of China, through highlighting three strategic themes for the period to 2014."
The goal has been encapsulated in a re-articulated vision statement of HKU:
" The University of Hong Kong, as a leading international institution of higher learning in Asia, strives to attract and nurture outstanding scholars from around the world through excellence and innovation in teaching and learning, research and knowledge exchange, contributing to the advancement of society and the development of leaders through a global presence, regional significance and engagement with the rest of China."
On enhancing the student learning experience, HKU will offer a first-rate liberal undergraduate curriculum, outstanding preparation for professional qualifications and excellence in postgraduate studies to a diverse and talented student population.
On research and innovation, the University aims both to investigate fundamental problems and to contribute to the application of knowledge.  Research will be carried out in an environment that supports discovery and innovation and which improves the economic, social and cultural prosperity of communities in Hong Kong, China, the region and beyond. As a centre of intellectual development, creativity and informed social awareness, HKU will in the next five years ensure that Knowledge Exchange contributes to regional and global development, and increase the opportunities for staff and students to benefit from the commercialization and application of their expertise. 
Sustainable relationships are to be built with the government, professions, private sector, community and individual citizens to foster creativity and informed social awareness, and to demonstrate the University's commitment to societal leadership in the region.
The key strategic initiatives and operational priorities under each of the themes will be supported by an enabling platform.
"We will strengthen the University's financial, physical, human resource and operational capabilities through our ‘enabling platform' to drive us forward," said Professor Tsui, adding that the four strategic areas for development in Strategic Development 2003-2008, namely "Enhancing Academic Excellence", "Raising Global Presence and Visibility", "Partnership with Society and Serving the Community" and "Developing and Supporting ‘The University Family'" are still very much relevant to the University and will continue to be underlying future development.
"The period of 2009-2014 is certainly an exciting period in the evolution of the University, as we prepare for transition into the 4-year curriculum, completion of the Centennial Campus, celebration of our Centenary and enhancement of our presence in the Mainland.  Let us pool our efforts together to help the University face the upcoming challenges and soar higher amidst the opportunities ahead," he added.
He thanked the Senior Management Team, Council and Senate members, Faculty Deans, Department Heads, staff, students and alumni of the University for their invaluable inputs into the document during the consultation and brainstorming sessions dating back to 2007.  The plan was endorsed by the Council in September and will be presented to the Court in December this year.
To view the Strategic Development 2009-2014, please visit: http://www.sppoweb.hku.hk/sdplan/cht/
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.

