[title]HKU Pearl for the World exhibition on "World Heritage Theme Park"[/title]
[date]09 Jan 2012[/date]
 
An open exhibition to showcase the fourth stage of the Pearl for the World project "World Heritage Theme Park, integrating into the Greater West Kowloon District" of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) will be held on Jan 9 and 10, 2012 ( Monday and Tuesday). The latest stage of the project envisages Hong Kong's sustainable development in the 21st century, particularly on local and worldwide heritage conservation.
The Pearl for the World project brings forward a generic sustainable development framework for the entire HKSAR for the coming 50 years and beyond. The project particularly addresses Hong Kong's ever increasing population which is predicted to reach 9 million by 2040 as advised by the government.
Further to the first exhibition in October 2009, the second in January 2010 and the third in March 2011, the fourth exhibition will draw public's attention to heritage conservation in the territory with the theme "World Heritage Theme Park, integrating into the Greater West Kowloon District".
Professor K P Cheung, Associate Professor of HKU Department of Architecture and principal investigator of the project, introduced to the media today (Jan 9) the blueprint of the theme park and his proposals to develop the Greater West Kowloon District into a World Heritage Theme Park. A number of display panels and models outlining the West Kowloon Cultural District (WKCD) are shown at the exhibition.
Meanwhile, the invited exhibition "Soul of the City - East Meets West" has presented to the public sites of civic importance which form the heart and soul of the city of Hong Kong.
Over the last 170 years, Hong Kong has been transformed from a small fishing village to a metropolitan city, from a British colony to a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. The core of the city's evolution began at the northern coast of Hong Kong Island, from Government Hill which stand the Government House, the Central Government Offices, St John's Cathedral and the Court of Final Appeal, to the Statue Square, Former LegCo Building, Chater Garden, the Cenotaph, Edinburgh Place and City Hall.
Urban heritage constitutes a key resource in enhancing the liveability of urban areas and fosters economic development and social cohesion. The exhibition will present key strategies and proposals to protect this significant heritage area of Hong Kong.
Mr Lee Yuet, HKU School of Architecture alumni (1960 graduate) presented the key conservation proposals for this heritage area at the opening ceremony. Mr Michael Wright, former Director of Public Works of Hong Kong Government (1963-69) and chief architect of the Central Government Offices, has recalled in a video interview the history of the construction of the former government headquarters.
More information about the "Proposed World Heritage Theme Park, integrating into the Greater West Kowloon District" is available at: http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/theme.pdf and http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/letter.pdf
"Soul of the City - East Meets West" videos can be downloaded at:
Michael Wright's Interview: http://youtu.be/ONTaeQMZPUg
Open exhibition
Date: January 9 to 10, 2012 (Monday and Tuesday)
Time: 10 am to 8 pm
Venue: Convocation Room, Room 218, Main Building, University of Hong Kong
HKU Pearl for the World project
First phase exhibition: http://icee.hku.hk/exhibition/pearl/index.html
Second phase exhibition: http://icee.hku.hk/exhibition/pearlOfTheWorldII/index.html 
Third phase exhibition:
http://icee.hku.hk/activities/HKU100exhibition/doc/20110316/KPC.pdf
For enquiries about the Pearl for the World project, please contact Mr K P Cheung at tel: 2859 7963 or email: kpcheuna@hku.hk . For "Soul of the City - East Meets West", please call tel: 9026 6187.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk .

Professor K P Cheung and the "World Heritage Theme Park" exhibition

"Soul of the City - East Meets West" exhibition




Two exhibitions on conservation: "World Heritage Theme Park" and "Soul of the City - East Meets West"

  
