[title]Gala Concert of “An Anthem for HKU”
A tribute to Vice-Chancellor Lap-Chee Tsui from Arts Faculty[/title]
[date]08 Feb 2014[/date]
 

A photo session with Professor Lap-Chee Tsui at the Foyer after the Concert.
Left to Right: Head of Diocesan Boys' School Ronnie Cheng Yen, University Artist Yip Wing-sie, Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Professor David Clarke, Dr Page Richards, Dr Chan Hing-yan, Professor Daniel Chua and the Convenor of “An Anthem for HKU” Mr Patrick Poon Sun-Cheong. 

Gala Concert of “An Anthem for HKU”
A tribute to Vice-Chancellor Lap-Chee Tsui from Arts Faculty
The Gala Concert of “An Anthem for HKU 港大禮讚” was held on February 7 as a tribute to the Vice-Chancellor. 
At the Concert, three Arts Faculty professors also presented gifts to the Vice-Chancellor -- a piece of music composed by Dr Chan Hing-yan; an artwork designed by Professor David Clarke; and a poem written by Dr Page Richards.
The University Anthem was first performed at the Opening Ceremony of the University on March 11, 1912, in front of the then newly completed Main Building. The Anthem was used at formal University occasions until the 1930s, but after the war it was largely forgotten, preserved in the archives as an historical curiosity that could be seen but seldom heard. 
Last night was the first live performance of the reconstructed University Anthem by the Hong Kong Sinfonietta, the Diocesan Choral Society and HKU Students' Union Choir, conducted by our University Artist Yip Wing-sie.  All audience members received a commemorative CD of the University Anthem.
The University Artists Alex Law and Mabel Cheung also produced a short film, SAPIENTIA, featured the University Anthem. It was premiered at the Centenary Gala Dinner on December 18, 2011. Watch the video here: www.daao.hku.hk/sapientia .
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) Tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.

The University Anthem performed by the Hong Kong Sinfonietta, the Diocesan Choral Society and HKU Students' Union Choir and conducted by our University Artist Yip Wing-sie.

The University Anthem performed by the Hong Kong Sinfonietta, the Diocesan Choral Society and HKU Students' Union Choir and conducted by our University Artist Yip Wing-sie.


At the Concert, three Arts Faculty academics presented gifts to the Vice-Chancellor -- a piece of music composed by Dr Chan Hing-yan (first from the left); a poem written by Dr Page Richards (third from the left) and an artwork designed by Professor David Clarke (fourth from the left). Professor Daniel Chua (second from the left), Head of HKU’s School of Humanities and the Co-Convenor of “An Anthem for HKU” Gala Concert, presented the gifts on stage with three academics.

Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, the Vice-Chancellor, received a standing ovation.




