[title]HKU Faculty of Dentistry ranks second globally in QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015[/title]
[date]29 Apr 2015[/date]
 
The Faculty of Dentistry at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has been ranked No.2 in the scholastic ratings of dental schools around the world, according to the recent QS World University Rankings by Subject released today (April 29, 2015).
It is the first time that Dentistry has been included in the rankings, which scored 292 dental institutions from all over the world. The Karolinska Institute, in Stockholm, Sweden grabbed the first place for the discipline of Dentistry.
Professor Thomas Flemmig, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Dentistry, said: "We are all absolutely excited about this fantastic result, it is a genuine recognition of the Faculty's contribution in training world-class dentists, as well as the efforts we spent in promoting oral and dental health not only in Hong Kong, but around the world.”
“In view of an ageing population and economic developments, we foresee that the society will be in need of more dentists and more comprehensive dental and oral care. For this, we are set to identify policy issues related to our subject and are ready to collaborate with the government, the industry, and other stakeholders with a view to enhancing public dental and oral care for the benefit of the community at large.”
Established in 1982, the HKU Faculty of Dentistry is the sole educational institution for dental practitioners and specialists in the territory, offering undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in dental specialty areas such as community dentistry, endodontics, orthodontics, oral and maxillofacial surgery, pediatric dentistry, periodontology and prosthodontics.
The Faculty of Dentistry is a pioneer in oral healthcare research, and has from time to time conducted territory-wide surveys and studies on the oral and dental health among the population. Both the teaching staff and students are actively engaged in community projects, translational and basic research, and comprehensive patient care.
For media enquiries, please contact HKU Faculty of Dentistry, at tel: 28590494.
