[title]Chemistry Professor Che Chi Ming the first HK recipient of the prestigious HLHL Prize in China[/title]
[date]13 Nov 2007[/date]
 
Professor Che Chi Ming, Hui Wai Haan Chair of Chemistry of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) has become the first Hong Kong scientist to be awarded the prestigious Prize of Ho Leung Ho Lee (HLHL) Foundation for Scientific and Technological Progress. Being presented the prize in Beijing earlier, Professor Che has decided to put the HK$200,000 award into his current research in "Green Chemistry".
The HLHL Foundation was set up in 1994 jointly by famous Hong Kong philanthropists the late Dr S H Ho, the late Dr Leung Kau-kui, the late Dr Ho Tim and Dr Lee Quo-wei. With the donation of HK$100 million from each, the Foundation aims to promote the development of science and technology in the Mainland China via rewarding outstanding scientists. In recognition of the contribution of the founders, an asteroid discovered in 1978 by China's observatory was named as HLHL Star in 2000.
Professor Che is one of the three recipients, and the only one from Hong Kong, for the award in the discipline of chemistry. A total of 42 recipients from various disciplines, out of 237 candidates, received the HLHL Prize for Scientific and Technological Progress this year. The winners were selected by the Selection Board of 20 renowned scholars, including one-quarter from overseas, from 80 candidates shortlisted by Professional Evaluation Panels set up for various disciplines.
This year, the HLHL Foundation also presented the Prize for Scientific and Technological Achievements to 2 Mainland scholars. Another 21 scientists, selected from 91 candidates, received the Prize for Scientific and Technological Innovation.
"Being the first Hong Kong scientist to receive such a prominent prize previously predominated by the Mainland peers, I feel most honoured. It is a great encouragement for me, my colleagues in HKU and the chemistry industry in Hong Kong, it reflects China's recognition of Hong Kong's fundamental research achievements in chemistry," said Professor Che.
Professor Che has received earlier in February this year First Class Prize of the State Natural Science Award (SNSA) for 2006. He is the first Hong Kong scientist to win the prize, which is China's most prestigious award in natural sciences.
He was also the first Hong Kong scientist being elected to the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1995; and the youngest academician being so honoured then, at the age of 38.
Professor Che's research in the past three decades has been focusing on the development of innovative chemical reactions, in terms of efficiency, selectivity and environmental friendliness. The findings will benefit the modern chemical industry, synthesized pharmaceuticals and the discovery of new molecular functional materials.
Besides continuing with his research, Professor Che said he would continue to train local students to internationally competitive levels. He hopes the government will provide increased and stable funding for research, and for updating research equipment and facilities.
- ends -
For enquiries please contact Senior Manager (Media) Ms Cherry Cheung (Tel: 2859 2606 / E-mail: cherry.cheung@hku.hk); or Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk )
