[title]Western Harbour Tunnel establishes Scholarship at HKU[/title]
[date]28 Apr 2005[/date]
 
The Western Harbour Tunnel Company Limited ("the Company") has established a scholarship in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Hong Kong (HKU).
The Western Harbour Tunnel Scholarship will be made available to undergraduate students starting in the 2005-06 academic year for the degree of Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) in Civil Engineering at the University.
One scholarship will be awarded to a first-year student each year covering all tuition fees of the whole undergraduate curriculum.The Scholarship recipient will be known as the Western Harbour Tunnel Transport Scholar.He/She will be given a summer placement contract during his or her first year and second year of studies.An internship may also be assigned by the Company for each year's scholarship.In addition, the Company and HKU's Department of Civil Engineering may set a topic for the Scholarship recipient's Final Year Project so that he/she can gain practical experience on traffic issues.
After his/her graduation, the Scholar is expected to offer his/her services to the Company as a first choice of preference for a period of not less than three years, subject to the availability of a suitable vacancy and his/her passing of the usual recruitment scrutiny by the Western Harbour Tunnel Company Limited. 
Mr. P.K.K. Lee, Head of the Department of Civil Engineering, HKU, welcomes the establishment of the Scholarship."We are very grateful for the Western Harbour Tunnel Company Limited's generous support to our civil engineering curriculum.This Scholarship will help to attract outstanding students to HKU and encourage academic excellence.Our joint effort will result in the nurturing of outstanding engineers for society, particularly those who specialize in transportation engineering," said Mr. Lee.
"Being a socially responsible organization, the Company has a strong commitment to the society and is keen to nurture young people for the betterment of the community."Mr Kenneth Pang, General Manager of WHTCL, also stated."The Scholarship is a terrific means of enhancing the educational experience of highly talented students with both scholarships and summer internships that provide them with invaluable practical training in a real business setting."
For enquiries, please contact the Department of Civil Engineering, HKU at 2859 2286.
 
