[title]Asia’s best seeks India’s best - HKU opens India Liaison Office[/title]
[date]23 Nov 2010[/date]
 

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) celebrated today (November 23) the grand opening of its India Liaison Office in New Delhi to foster exchanges and student recruitment. 
The inauguration ceremony was officiated by Mr. Amit Khare, IAS, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Human Resource Development (Department of Higher Education); Mr. Raymond H.C. Wong, JP, Permanent Secretary for Education, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government; Dr. Shayama Chona, Padmashree and Padmabhushan Awardee; and Prof. John A. Spinks, Senior Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor, The University of Hong Kong. 
The goal of the India office is to bring the best of Hong Kong together with the best of India, said Professor Spinks.  
 "We hope that this will extend through research collaboration, service learning, student exchange and recruitment," he added. 
The office will add to the strength of HKU to attract the best students in the region. Two offices have earlier been set up in Beijing and Shanghai to provide advice and consultation to students in the Mainland.  
 "China and India constitute two of the BRIC countries that are signaling a major shift in global economic power.  Tomorrow's world will need leaders who can capitalize on this by understanding both countries and facilitate the rapidly increasing trade between them." 
The students from Hong Kong, India and the Mainland can bring their cultural and educational background together studying in the HKU campus in a form of knowledge exchange. 
 "We are fortunate in having a number of factors come together at the same time - the priority accorded to education by students and their parents in Asia resulting in high academic standards, the continued support of Asian governments for universities and the investment they provide, and the ranking of HKU as the best university in Asia. 
 "With the economic development in Asia and the availability of jobs after graduation, many students are choosing to stay in Asia for their undergraduate studies rather than going to the more traditional educational destinations of the US, UK and Australia. 
 "This is the new Spice Route of the 21st century - exchanging knowledge across Asia." Professor Spinks said. 
The number of applications from India for undergraduate degree programs at HKU increased three-fold from 2009-2010, and there are over 120 India students currently on campus. The new office is a significant cornerstone to facilitate the admission process for students and help them choose the best courses available. 
A new scholarship scheme comprising the First in the Family Scholarships, Top Scorers Scholarships and Entrance Scholarships will be offered to outstanding Indian students admitted by the University. 
The address of the HKU India office is: C\O Nai Disha C-10\8, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-57. Tel/fax: (91) 1145555398.  
For enquiries, please contact Ms. Joanna Wong, Country Manager (India), HKU via joannahw@hku.hk. 
The inauguration ceremony was officiated by Mr. Amit Khare, IAS, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Human Resource Development (Department of Higher Education); Mr. Raymond H.C. Wong, JP, Permanent Secretary for Education, HKSAR; Dr. Shayama Chona, Padmashree and Padmabhushan Awardee; and Prof. John A. Spinks, HKU Senior Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor
HKU opens India Liaison Office
 
