[title]Five HKU academics named amongst the world's most influential researchers[/title]
[date]13 Jul 2014[/date]
 
Five academics of the University of Hong Kong have been named among the world’s top scientists whose work have been highly cited by fellow academics and are hence making a significant impact in ongoing research in their respective fields of study.
The HKU academics featured in The World’s Most Influential Scientific Minds 2014, released recently by Thomson Reuters, are:
Field of Study: Engineering
Professor James Lam
Chair of Control Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering
Field of Study: Geosciences
Professor Sun Min
Department of Earth Sciences, Faculty of Science
Professor Zhao Guochun
Department of Earth Sciences, Faculty of Science
Field of Study: Microbiology
Professor Yi Guan
Daniel CK Yu Professor in Virology, School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
Professor Malik Peiris
Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Medical Science, Chair Professor of Virology and Director of School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine
The analysis by Thomson Reuters was based on two separate studies. The first is from the Highly Cited Researchers listing which centers on authors who, between 2002 and 2012, published reports that ranked within the top one percent of the most-cited papers for their given subject field and the year of publication. These papers represent research that the scientific community has judged to be the most significant and useful. The other identifies those scientists who have published at least 15 papers in two years between 2011 and 2013 with notably higher levels of citations, and hence have made a pronounced impact in the scientific community’s emerging trends and the innovators behind them.
“Citations offer a direct testament to work that scientists themselves judge to be the most important to ongoing research. By analyzing these citation connections, one can identify the most impactful people, publications, programs, and more,” said Mr Gordon Macomber, managing director of Thomson Reuters Scientific and Scholarly Research.
HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson was delighted with the findings. He said: “I have already sent my personal congratulations to these star researchers and I thank them for their dedication to their respective disciplines. Peer review is critically important to researchers and this report acknowledges the value of their work internationally, which in turn strengthens HKU’s worldwide reputation as well.”
For more information about The World’s Most Influential Scientific Minds 2014, please visit: http://sciencewatch.com/grr/presenting-highly-cited-researchers.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Melanie Wan, Communications and Public Affairs Office, HKU (Tel: 2859 2600 / Email: melwkwan@hku.hk).
