[title]HKU Cultural Management Team to present
Shanghai Quartet with Colleen Lee
[/title]
[date]03 May 2014[/date]
 

Shanghai Quartet
'The whole performance was superb…providing glowing solos and the slow movement rising to poetic heights.' - The New York Times
Colleen Lee
'… heavenly touch and profound emotion.' - L’eco di Bergamo
Date:  May 25, 2014 (Sunday),
Time:  3pm
Venue: Grand Hall, Lee Shau Kee Lecture Centre, Centennial Campus, the University of Hong Kong

Programme
CHOPIN: Ballade No. 1 in G minor, Op. 23
SCHUMANN: Piano Quintet in E-flat major, Op. 44
BEETHOVEN: String Quartet No. 13 in B-flat major, Op. 130
Music in Words
There will be a conversation between the Shanghai Quartet and Prof. Daniel Chua on Beethoven's Op. 130 to introduce the second half.
Renowned for its passionate musicality, impressive technique and multicultural innovations, the Shanghai Quartet has become one of the world's foremost chamber ensembles. On Sunday 25 May at 3pm, the quartet will perform with Hong Kong's own Colleen Lee, presenting three alluring works by Chopin, Schumann and Beethoven in the Grand Hall, Lee Shau Kee Lecture Centre, HKU.
This concert marks the first collaboration between the Quartet and Colleen, together they will present Schumann's Piano Quintet in E-flat major, Op. 44. This romantic quintet, dedicated to his wife Clara, is possibly the most famous chamber work of Schumann and stands as one of his supreme achievements. The programme also features Chopin's Ballade No. 1 in G minor, Op. 23 and Beethoven's String Quartet No. 13 in B-flat major, Op. 130.
As an education institute, HKU hopes to engage audience and students on a deeper level. 'Music in Words' is one of the attempts to achieve this goal. After the intermission, the second half of the programme will start with a conversation on Beethoven's Op. 130 between the Shanghai Quartet and Prof. Daniel Chua, Head of School of Humanities, HKU.
Shanghai Quartet
Now in its thirtieth year, the Shanghai Quartet melds the delicacy of Eastern music with the emotional breadth of Western repertoire, allowing it to traverse musical genres from traditional Chinese folk music and masterpieces of Western music to cutting-edge contemporary works. The Quartet has worked with the world's most distinguished artists and regularly tours the major music centers of Europe, North America and Asia.
Colleen Lee
Since winning the 6th Prize at the prestigious International Frederic Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw in 2005, Colleen Lee has performed extensively throughout Asia, Europe and North America.  She has also been a featured artist at several international music festivals including the International Chopin Festivals in Poland, Meissen Pianoforte Festival in Germany, International Keyboard Festival in New York, Bowdoin International Music Festival and the Hong Kong Arts Festival. 
Tickets
Tickets at $180 and $100 are available from Cityline and Tom Lee Music Outlets
Half-price concession tickets available
Tel: 2111 5333 | www.cityline.com
Programme Enquiries
Tel: 3917 7754
www.muse.hku.hk
Media Enquiries
For more information and interview arrangements, please contact: Ms June Lui
Manager, Cultural Management Team, HKU
Tel: 3917 7753
Email: junelch@hku.hk
This performance is supported by the Lee Shau Kee Foundation.
For the detailed biographies of Shanghai Quartet and Colleen Lee, please visit: Detailed Biographies

