[title]The Centre for Comparative and Public Law launches the Human Rights Portal 
http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal
[/title]
[date]15 Oct 2012[/date]
 



With the enactment of the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance in June 1991, there is now over two decades of human rights law in Hong Kong.  Yet there are few websites available dedicated to providing free legal information or academic research about human rights in Hong Kong.  The Centre for Comparative and Public Law (CCPL) in the Faculty of Law at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) will launch a new website specifically designed to highlight the expertise and important contributions of the Faculty in human rights issues, both locally and internationally.
The Human Rights Portal website (http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal) has been launched today (October 15, Monday). The CCPL Human Rights Portal will be a virtual centre which creates and distributes human rights resources - articles, documents, videos, guides, manuals and links - in English, Traditional and Simplified Chinese.
Topics covered by the Human Rights Portal are divided into nine groups:

Asia;
Hong Kong;
Women;
Equality;
Migration;
Disability;
Diversity;
Criminal Justice;
Expression &amp; Religion
Enter the Portal to discover:
Over 70 videos of human rights events featuring local and international speakers
Numerous reports on human rights issues conducted by Faculty experts
Dozens of academic research and publications
The ‘Hong Kong Human Rights Action Plan 2012’
Posters and photos of human rights events
Interviews and news stories on current issues.

Some basic information about the Human Rights Portal:
Launch date: Monday, 15 October 2012
Website addresses:
English: http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal
Traditional Chinese: http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal-tc
Simplified Chinese: http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal-sc
Facebook page: www.facebook.com/ccpl.hrportal
Should you have further inquiries, please contact Ms. Sharron Fast at 3917-1938
If you would like to receive this press release in Traditional Chinese, please contact Ms. Sharron Fast at sfast@hku.hk.
About the Center for Comparative and Public Law (http://www.law.hku.hk/ccpl)
CCPL was established in 1995 as a non-profit virtual research centre in the Faculty of Law.  Its goals are to (1) advance knowledge on public law and human rights issues primarily from the perspectives of international and comparative law and practice; (2) encourage and facilitate collaborative work within the Faculty of Law, the University of Hong Kong, and the broader community in the fields of comparative and public law; and (3) make the law more accessible to the community and more effective as an agent of social change.
About the Human Rights Portal Project (http://www.law.hku.hk/hrportal)
With funding assistance from an award by the Knowledge Exchange Office of the University of Hong Kong, the aim of this project is to launch a comprehensive, accessible and user-friendly website which collates human rights materials produced by CCPL, members of the HKU Faculty of Law, international human rights bodies, international and regional NGOs, governments, law-making bodies, public policy officials, academics and students. It is hoped that as this project continues to build its profile and resources the community of interest will widen and it will become a leading international web resource on human rights, particularly in relation to Hong Kong, China and Asia.
