[title]Professor Amy B.M. Tsui appointed HKU Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Teaching and Learning)[/title]
[date]29 Nov 2007[/date]
 


Picture 1

Professor Amy B.M. Tsui, Chair Professor of the Faculty of Education, has been appointed the new Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Teaching and Learning at The University of Hong Kong (HKU) for a term of five years. 
This Pro-Vice-Chancellorship is a newly created post to address the strategic priorities and developments ahead, especially those associated with the 4-year degree structure and curriculum reform of the University.  
Professor Amy Tsui will be in charge of teaching and learning issues, as well as quality assurance of the education experience related to the curriculum reform.
The appointment was recommended by Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui with unanimous support from the Search Committee which conducted a thorough search process through open recruitment locally and internationally, as well as upon consultations with student representatives.  It was approved by the Council.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui welcomed the appointment: "As the University is at a critical stage of curriculum development, Professor Amy Tsui's distinguished academic achievements, experience and knowledge in curriculum reform, as well as her deep understanding of the local education system made her the most suitable person for the job.  I very much look forward to working with her."
Professor Amy Tsui is pleased to accept the appointment: "It is an honor to assume this position at a critical stage in the development of HKU and higher education in Hong Kong. In my term of office, I hope to move the university forward as a learning community that is intellectually challenging and personally fulfilling for both students and staff. The four-year undergraduate curriculum reform is a once-in-a-life time opportunity for us to critically reflect on the total learning experience that is afforded to our students, and to deliberate on how we can not only help students to develop intellectual capabilities and professional skills, but also nurture the core values of a responsible global citizen."
Professor Amy Tsui has held a number of positions within the University.  Before this appointment, she was Chairman of the Steering Committee on 4-year Undergraduate Curriculum, a position she has held since March 2006, and a member of the Working Group on the 4-year Undergraduate Curriculum since September 2005.  She was Acting Pro-Vice-Chancellor for different periods in 2001, 2002 and 2004, Honorary Director of the Centre for the Advancement of University Teaching from June 2006 to June 2007, and has been a Member of the Language Policy Committee and University Research Committee since 2005 and November 2006 respectively. 
She studied English literature and linguistics and graduated from HKU in 1971, obtained her PhD in Linguistics from the University of Birmingham in 1986.  Professor Tsui has taught at the National University of Singapore and the Chinese University of Hong Kong before joining HKU in 1990. 
The Council also approved the re-appointment of Professor L.P. Samaranayake as Dean of Dentistry for a further term of five years from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2013. 
As the current executive Dean, Professor Samaranayake expressed interest in seeking a re-appointment.  Having considered the feedback from staff and students within the Faculty and across the University, as well as from external stakeholders to the review committee, the Vice-Chancellor recommended to the Council the re-appointment of Professor Samaranayake in accordance with University Ordinances.

