[title]Dr Leong Che-hung to succeed Dr Victor Fung as HKU Council Chairman[/title]
[date]29 Sep 2009[/date]
 

The University of Hong Kong (HKU) announced today (September 29) that its current Chairman of Council, Dr Victor KK Fung, will be stepping down from his post on November 6, 2009. 
The University's Chancellor, Dr the Honourable Donald Tsang Yam-kuen, has appointed Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung to be the next Chairman of Council, in accordance with the Statutes The change of leadership is in keeping with the Government's 6-year rule. 
Since his appointment in 2003, Dr Fung has been instrumental in developing and augmenting  a wide range of strategic developments at HKU, including reforming the University's governance and management structure to align it with international best practice, the Human Resource Management reform, the Centenary Recruitment Scheme (which enables the University to recruit 200 new teachers to prepare for the new 4-year curriculum), and the Centennial Campus Development to expand the University's campus. During his Chairmanship, the University's dependence on Government funding decreased significantly due to better financial resource management, investment performance and fundraising. 
During Dr Fung's tenure, the University has also seen its standing rise in international rankings like those by the respected Times Higher Education - Quacquarelli Symonds (THE-QS) World University Rankings
Dr Fung said: "It has been a privilege to be part of the HKU family, and I am of course very pleased to see all the remarkable transformations that have taken place at the University. As a keen supporter of the internationalisation of the University, it has been very gratifying for me to see it increasing overseas student exchanges, recruiting more international faculty, and strengthening its partnerships with institutions, enterprises and governments around the world." 
"I would like to thank the members of the HKU community for their valuable contributions to the University and congratulate them on these achievements. I would also like to thank the Vice-Chancellor for his support during my term and am confident that the University will benefit under Dr Leong's Chairmanship," he added. 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "The University is very grateful for the visionary leadership Dr Fung has lent us during his Chairmanship, without which many of the important developments we have witnessed at HKU would not have been possible." 
Dr Leong Che-hung, who will assume the Council Chairmanship on November 7, 2009, graduated from HKU in 1962 and worked in the Department of Surgery from 1964 to 1978.   He has been an elected Member of the Council of the University since 2004, is Chairman of the Council's Grievance Panel, an Honorary Professor of the Faculty of Medicine and an Honorary (DSc honoris causa) Graduate of the University. 
Dr Leong has led an illustrious public service career.  He is a non-official Member of the Executive Council, Chairman of the Elderly Commission, Chairperson of the Council on Human Reproductive Technology, and a Member of ICAC Complaints Committee, the Family Council and the Honours Committee. 
Dr Leong was appointed Justice of the Peace in 1993, awarded an OBE in 1991 and a Gold Bauhinia Star in 2001. 
Dr Leong said: "As many people know, I have strong and cherished ties with the University. I have been a student, a teacher and a Council member here, and have maintained a deep interest in its development.  This appointment is a great honour for me and I am delighted to have this opportunity to further serve my alma mater."  
Speaking about Dr Leong's appointment, Prof Tsui said: "Given Dr Leong's life-long ties with the University and eminent record of service to the community and to academia, I believe the Chancellor has appointed a highly respected leader to be the next Chairman of Council.  I look forward to working with Dr Leong and the Council on the many important and exciting tasks facing the University," he remarked. 
For enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media), HKU (Tel: 2859 2606/E-mail: pychoy@hku.hk ) 
Dr Leong Che-hung (Right) to succeed Dr Victor Fung (Left) as HKU Council Chairman
Dr Leong Che-hung (Left), Dr Victor Fung (Middle) and Professor Lap-Chee Tsui(Right)
 
