[title]2005 HKU Concert Series: The Joe Rosenberg Quartet East[/title]
[date]15 Mar 2005[/date]
 
"A hopeful sign in jazz."Kevin Whitehead, Tower Records' Pulse
"Simply top class!!!!!!!!!!!!!" Flavio Bonandrini. Black Saint
Presented by the Department of Music, The University of Hong Kong 
Thursday 24 March, 2005, 7:30pm
Loke Yew Hall, HKU 
FREE ADMISSION, Tickets are required. Please contact the Music Department Office at 2859-7045 during business hours to obtain tickets. First come first served. 
Black Saint artist Joe Rosenberg has lived in Asia for many years, but he has made most of his music in Paris and New York. Drawing on his musical experiences in Asia, he has finally found players in the region that can support his vision. His Asian band includes Masako Hamamura on piano, Peter Scherr on bass, and Aksan Syuman on drums. Joe's music is a mix of jazz and contemporary classical music, and his groups aim for an interplay that is both fresh and real.
Program Inquiries: 2859-7045 or www.hku.hk/music/concerts.
Programs and artists subject to change.
ABOUT HKU CONCERT SERIES
Each year, the Department of Music at the University of Hong Kong stages a series of concerts on campus. Known as the HKU Concert Series, it presents an average of 8-10 concerts being held each semester. Outstanding performers from both Hong Kong and from around the world are invited to share their talents and virtuosity with students and the community at large. Performances are aimed at promoting cross-cultural understanding and further a spirit of mutual cooperation.
Many evening concerts are held in the University's historic Loke Yew Hall (陸佑堂), formerly known as the Great Hall. It is located in the Main Building, the oldest structure on the university’s main estate. Officially opened in 1912, it was Hong Kong's very first concert hall. Over the years, it has hosted countless ensembles, artists, and scholars including the Hong Kong Philharmonic, Kunqu master Yu (崑劇大師俞振飛), and Dr. Sun Yat-sen. During World War II, the hall served as a hospital, and today it is listed as a historical structure.
In addition to the evening concerts, the Department of Music also stages lunchtime concerts, which augment the evening performances with superb daytime renditions by talented young musicians and students. These lunchtime concerts are also held on the University campus, and are free to all staff, students and members of the public who wish to attend. The lunchtime concerts are aimed at promoting a continued appreciation of music within our community whilst providing an ideal platform for young and emerging musicians to showcase their considerable talents. 
In keeping with the University's mission to serve as a focal point of intellectual and academic endeavours in Hong Kong, China and Asia, and act as a gateway for scholarship with the rest of the world, the HKU Concert Series commits itself in bringing world-class performances to the community in support of this objective.
www.hku.hk/music/concerts
###
Media Contact: 
Ms. Sharon Lu, Concert Manager, Department of Music, HKU
Tel: 2241 5738, Fax: 2858 4933, e-mail: sharonlu@hku.hk
 
