[title]HKU holds Inauguration Ceremony for New Students[/title]
[date]28 Aug 2013[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (August 28) welcomed its new students to the University with an Inauguration Ceremony.
Today’s ceremony was officiated by HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui. Dr York Chow, Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission, addressed the students as the Guest of Honour. A total of over 3,500 new undergraduate students have been admitted into various programmes this academic year. 
Professor Tsui welcomed the new students in his inauguration address. He introduced HKU as a place of unique culture and strong tradition. He encouraged students to take part in activities and enjoy university life, and said learning experiences both inside and outside classroom were important. 
“We believe that university education is the totality of a wide array of learning experiences. Through these activities, we want you to learn to be a life-long learner, and to feel comfortable with the problems and issues that are unheard of today."
He said HKU students are expected to be leaders of their chosen field and leaders of society. In this regard, they need to exercise their independent thinking and be critical. 
“Freedom of intellectual thought and personal expression are things that HKU has always stood for. You must think critically and independently so that you will be free from prejudices, and be ever open to new possibilities. You have a responsibility to make a difference for everyone and to help create a better tomorrow for humankind,” he added. 
Other HKU family members who delivered welcoming addresses at the Ceremony were Dean of Student Affairs Dr Albert Chau, Chairman of Convocation Mr Choi Sau Yuk and President of the Hong Kong University Students' Union Mr. Laurence Tang.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk, Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2857 8555 / 9022 7446 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk or media enquiry hotline: 6347 2221.

Inauguration Ceremony for New Students 2013

Inauguration by Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui



Speech by Guest of Honour, Dr. York Chow, Chairperson of the Equal Opportunities Commission

HKU welcomes new students to its family


