[title]Over 500 guests celebrate Professor Jao Tsung-I’s 95th birthday at Dunhuang[/title]
[date]08 Aug 2010[/date]
 


Over 500 celebrities from the Mainland, Hong Kong and overseas gathered at Dunhuang, Gansu province, today (August 8) to celebrate the 95th birthday of renowned contemporary sinologist and world-acclaimed artist Professor Jao Tsung-I. 
A banquet was held in the evening at the scenic Mogao Grottoes situated at southeast of Dunhuang. Frescoes in the caves, painted from the fifth through the 13th centuries, feature some of the finest examples of Buddhist art. Professor Jao started his Dunhuang studies early in 1950s. Inspired by Dunhuang art, he later created his own style of painting and calligraphy. 
At Dunhuang, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: "We are here today not only to celebrate the birth of a great scholar, but also to dedicate our heartfelt gratitude to his significant contributions in enriching the Chinese culture and advancing human civilization." 
Professor Tsui also thanked Professor Jao for teaching at the Chinese Department of the University in the 1950s and 60s. 
"In those more than ten years, Professor Jao had inspired and nurtured many outstanding sinologists, who have passed on their invaluable knowledge from generation to generation," he added. In 2003, the Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole was established at HKU. With the generous donations of Professor Jao, the collection of valuable books, paintings, calligraphies and ceramics has now reached 30,000 pieces. 
Professor Jao extended his gratitude to the participating guests, who had come all the way to Dunhuang to celebrate his 95th birthday. He wanted in particular to thank those who have donated in his name for the protection of Dunhuang's cultural relics. He also called upon the community to continue to protect and preserve Dunhuang art. 
Professor Jao has spent more than 70 years in academic research and artistic creation. He has been widely acknowledged as an historian, sinologist, archaeologist, translator, painter and calligrapher. He is also a highly regarded poet and an expert on Chinese musical instruments. 
Following the banquet, a three-day seminar will be held from tomorrow (August 9) on Professor Jao's achievements in Dunhuang studies. 
An exhibition will be held at the Dunhuang Academy exhibition centre at Mogao Grottoes from August 9 to October 31 to showcase 150 pieces of the professor's paintings and calligraphic works featuring Dunhuang culture. 
The activities are jointly organized by the State Council Central Research Institute of Culture and History, the Academy of Dunhuang, and Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of the University of Hong Kong. Among the participants are Professor Jao Tsung-I; Secretary for Home Affairs Mr Tsang Tak-sing; Secretary for Development Mrs Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor; President of the State Council Central Research Institute of Culture and History Professor Yuan Xingpei; Director of the Dunhuang Academy Ms Fan Jinshi, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui; and Director of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of HKU Professor CF Lee. 
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 

 


HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui addresses at Dunhuang
 
From left:Director of Jao Tsung-I Petite Ecole of HKU Professor CF Lee, Director of the Dunhuang Academy Ms Fan Jinshi, President of the State Council Central Research Institute of Culture and History Professor Yuan Xingpei and other participants withProfessor Jao Tsung-I

Director of the Dunhuang Academy Ms Fan Jinshi andProfessor Jao Tsung-I
 
A banquet was held in the evening at the scenic Mogao Grottoes situated at southeast of Dunhuang
 
 
 
