[title]HSBC/McKinsey Business Case Competition 2010 Final Results Announcement[/title]
[date]03 Jun 2010[/date]
 


The final rounds of the 2010 HSBC/McKinsey Business Case Competition, organized by The University of Hong Kong Asia Case Research Centre (ACRC), was successfully held on 3 June 2010 at The University of Hong Kong. This year's competition was very intense with participation not only from the eight local universities but also four top universities from the region. Winners were awarded at the ceremony in the evening.
After four rounds of competition, the team from Baptist University won the championship, with National University of Singapore claiming first runner-up.
The three other overseas teams include Korea University, Shri Ram College of Commerce under the University of Delhi of India and Thammasat University of Thailand.
The cases used at the competition are unpublished business cases developed by a team of professional researchers at the ACRC. They are strategy and general management based cases dealing with some of the most relevant topics in today's business agenda including entrepreneurship, innovation, corporate sustainability and cultural diversity.
Each team was given two and a half hours to analyse a business strategy case after which they were given 20 minutes to present the case in front of a jury composed of Hong Kong business elites including Ms. Teresa Au (HSBC), Mr. Justin Chan (HSBC), Mr. Prashant Bhatt (HSBC), Ms. Katrina Cokeng (McKinsey &amp; Company) and Mr. James E. Thompson (Crown Worldwide Holdings Ltd.). Presentations were followed by a Q&amp;A session in which the judging panel grilled the participants on the proposed strategies, solutions and implementation.
Members of the winning team were offered exceptional internship opportunities at HSBC or McKinsey and a cash award of HK$20,000; members of the first runner-up team were offered with a cash award of HK$10,000.
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Yvonne Mak
Director
Communications and Corporate Relations
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4488
Email: yslmak@hku.hk
For programme enquiries, please contact:
Mr. Jeroen van den Berg
Centre Manager
Asia Case Research Centre
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2241 5360
Email: info@acrc.org.hk
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is Hong Kong's first and foremost university, with a history of nearly 100 years. Our alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government.
HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics offers a full range of Bachelors and Masters degree programmes plus PhD degree and non-degree open enrollment and customized Executive Education programmes.
Bachelor's degree programmes attract top students from Hong Kong and the region, with four ranking among HKU's top ten programmes in terms of average JUPAS entry scores (2009). More than 30% of HKU's elite students admitted via the "Early Admissions Scheme" (2009) choose the Faculty's programmes.
The EMBA-Global Asia, jointly offered by Columbia Business School, London Business School and HKU Business School, is an expansion of the flagship EMBA-Global programme, which was ranked first in the world by the Financial Times in 2008.
The full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with London Business School and Columbia Business School, has a strong Asia and China focus. Its unique features provide a rich and balanced education to students with local knowledge and global exposure.
The International MBA offered in collaboration with Fudan University in Shanghai has twice been ranked "best of its kind" in Mainland China by the Academic Degrees Committee of the China State Council.
While the Master of Economics programme has modeled its Hong Kong success with a similar programme launched in Shenzhen in collaboration with Peking University in 2005. Today, the Master of Finance programme in Shenzhen is offered in conjunction with either the Master of Economics or Master of Management programme of Peking University to bring together the rigorous training in finance and in economics/management of the two institutions.
The research excellence has enabled HKU to assume the position of the most successful university in Hong Kong in terms of securing competitive research funding from the Research Grants Council (RGC).
For more information, please visit: http://www.fbe.hku.hk
About Asia Case Research Centre
The ACRC is the region's largest producer of business cases, which are distributed globally through its own website (www.acrc.org.hk), Harvard Business School Publishing and the European Case Clearing House (www.ecch.com). Our mission is to advance learning and teaching in business education through the development of business cases that are timely, informative and capture the diversity of regional business context.
The ACRC has over 400 publications on a wide range of industries with over 450 universities and nearly 350 companies using ACRC cases in 2009. Amongst the top 25 users of our cases are renowned institutions such as MIT Sloan school of Management, University of Chicago, Stanford University, London Business School, INSEAD, Oxford University, Groupe HEC and IESE.
The ACRC collaborates with faculty from leading universities such as: Indian Institute of Technology (Delhi), Columbia University, Peking University and the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.



 
HSBC’s CEO Mr. Mark McCombe (left) sharing with competition participants at the welcome reception
 
Participants enjoying welcome reception hosted by HSBC. Ms. Teresa Au (4th from left, 1st row), HSBC Head of Corporate Sustainability, Asia Pacific Region Prof. Eric Chang, Acting Dean, Faculty of Business and Economics, HKU (3rd from left, 1st row)
 
Champion team: Baptist University of Hong Kong




