[title]HKU Centennial Campus Foundation Stone Laying Ceremony[/title]
[date]16 Mar 2010[/date]
 
One hundred years ago, on 16 March 1910, the foundation stone of the Main Building of the University of Hong Kong （HKU）was laid. Today, on 16 March 2010, HKU celebrated its Foundation Day with a Foundation Stone Laying Ceremony for its Centennial Campus.
The new campus will stand as a physical symbol of University's ambitious plan for research, student learning, development and community outreach in the next century.
The ceremony reprised the ceremony for the Main Building 100 years ago, when Sir Hormusjee Navrojee Mody, key donor of the Main Building, presented a trowel to the then Governor Sir Frederick Lugard for him to lay the foundation stone of the Building. At the ceremony today, Professor Christopher Mody, the great-great-grandson of Sir Hormusjee Mody, presented a trowel to the Chief Executive and HKU Chancellor Dr the Honourable Donald Tsang to lay the first stone for the new campus.
Other guests who officiated at the ceremony included: 
Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR
Dr the Hon David K P Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor
Dr the Hon Leong Che-hung, HKU Chairman of Council
Mr Jack So, Chairman, HKU Campus Development &amp; Planning Committee
Dr Lee Shau Kee, Chairman, Lee Shau Kee Foundation
Dr Cheng Yu Tung, Chairman, Cheng Yu Tung Foundation
Dr John Chan, Chairman, Hong Kong Jockey Club
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and the University's four former Vice-Chancellors Dr Rayson Huang, Professor Wang Gungwu, Professor Y C Cheng, and Professor Ian Davies, together with some 800 guests and students also joined the ceremony.
For photos of the event and speeches, please visit after the ceremony at: http://www.hku.hk/daao/316.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.


 
The Chief Executive and HKU Chancellor Dr the Honourable Donald Tsang lays the foundation stone for the HKU Centennial Campus. (Back row from left) Mr Jack So, HKU Campus Development &amp; Planning Committee Chairman; Dr Cheng Yu Tung, Cheng Yu Tung Foundation Chairman; Dr the Hon Leong Che-hung, HKU Council Chairman; Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of China’s Liaison Office in HKSAR; Dr the Hon David K P Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor; Dr Lee Shau Kee, Lee Shau Kee Foundation Chairman；Dr John Chan, Hong Kong Jockey Club Chairman；and HKU Vice –Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui
 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and the University’s four former Vice-Chancellors Professor Y C Cheng, Dr Rayson Huang, Professor Wang Gungwu and Professor Ian Davies at the Foundation Stone Laying Ceremony of the HKU Centennial Campus
 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and the University’s four former Vice-Chancellors Professor Y C Cheng，Dr Rayson Huang, Professor Wang Gungwu and Professor Ian Davies chanting the HKU Cheers with students.



