[title]Exhibition “Refuse the Shadows of the Past: 
Five Years of Austrian Art Made in China” opens at HKU
[/title]
[date]03 Jul 2014[/date]
 

Prof. Karel Dudesek, Artist and Curator of the Embassy of The Arts; Mr. Allan Au, Artist;  Mr. Franz Amann, Artist;  Ms. Anna Hofbauer, Artist;  Dr. Steven J. Cannon, HKU Executive Vice-President (Administration and Finance);  Mrs. Carrie Lam, GBS, JP, Chief Secretary for Administration, Government of the HKSAR;  Dr. Claudia Reinprecht, MBA, Consul General of Austrian Consulate General in Hong Kong and Macau;  Mr. Lukas Birk, Artist and Curator of the Embassy of The Arts and   Dr. Florian Knothe, Director, University Museum and Art Gallery, HKU (From left to right)

The University Museum and Art Gallery (UMAG) of the Hong Kong University (HKU) will be showing an exhibition of artworks by 27 Austrian artists in China titled “Refuse the Shadows of the Past: Five Years of Austrian Art made in China” from the July 4 to August 24, 2014. This exhibition is organised in collaboration with the Austrian Consulate General in Hong Kong and Macau and the Austrian initiative Embassy of the Arts.
An opening ceremony for the exhibition was held today (July 3) at HKU. Officiating guests include Chief Secretary for Administration Mrs Carrie Lam; HKU Executive Vice-President (Administration and Finance) Dr. Steven J. Cannon; Consul General of Austrian Consulate General Hong Kong and Macau Dr. Claudia Reinprecht; Curator, Embassy of the Arts Professor Karel Dudesek; and UMAG Director Dr. Florian Knothe.
In being the motto of the show and title of an artwork, “Refuse the Shadows of the Past”, is a commemorative exhibition that celebrates the fifth anniversary of artistic creation and transformation by Austrian and other international artists working in China with a concentrated focus on the past and present China. Five years also mark a longer existing program of internationalisation, initiated by the Austrian government to allow artists to work around the world.
This summer, the University Museum exhibits a selection of works that have been shown in Beijing, Shenzhen, Chongqing and Ningbo in the last five years, and include video works, objects, installations and book works as well as collages, drawings and photographic works.
Each exhibited artist developed his or her own method of artistic practice in a new environment, by working and living in China and not just visiting her. Thereby, they did not form part of a programmatic cultural exchange, but participated in a residency programme that allowed them to develop an approach driven by personal curiosity and subtle translations. In so doing, these artists communicate with various materials, sounds and forms to reach the visitors’ imagination.
Among the twenty-seven artists represented, Heimo Wallner features Mao Tse Tung’s selected works volume two with personal illustrations composed into an animation video, in order to draw and write a large map which shows historical and today’s connection of China. Roswitha Weingrill presents collages with mosaic intarsia showing female and male heads carved out of Chinese art school books.
Details of the exhibition “Refuse the Shadows of the Past: Five Years of Austrian Art Made in China”
Period:                   July 4, 2014 (Friday) to August 24, 2014 (Sunday)
                                Opening Hours:   09:30 to 18:00 (Monday to Saturday);                               
                               13:00 to 18:00 (Sunday).
                               Closed on University and Public Holidays
For details, please visit http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/about_us.html
Venue:                 1/F, Fung Ping Shan Building, University Museum and Art Gallery, the University of Hong Kong
                              For location, please visit: http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/location.html
Tel/Email:             (852) 2241 5500 (General Enquiry) / museum@hku.hk
Fees:                     Free Admission
Website:               www.hkumag.hku.hk
Activities
Guided tour for general public with the curator
To coincide with this exhibition, Mr Lukas Birk, Curator at the Embassy of the Arts will hold a guided tour for the public. Free admission and no reservation required. All are welcome.  
Speaker:         Mr Lukas Birk, Curator, Embassy of the Arts
Language:      English
Date:                July 5, 2014 (Saturday) at 15:00
Venue:             1/F, Fung Ping Shan Building, University Museum and Art Gall ery, HKU
No registration required. All are welcome.
For more information, please go to http://www.hkumag.hku.hk/main.html.       
Guided Tour for schools
The exhibition will involve dedicated education and outreach activities. Our museum welcome all school groups as well as tertiary institutions to request guided tours led by trained docents during our touring hours (Monday to Friday, 09:30 to 17:00). Guided tours are available in English, Cantonese and Mandarin. To request an appointment, please contact Miss Elena Cheung on 2241-5512 or elenac@hku.hk for booking and further information.

Aquarelle
Anton Petz
Water Colour

It doesn’t matter
Tina Hoghkogler
Collage



The Last Picture (afterthought)
Heimo Lattner
Drawing


Media enquiries:        
Miss Elena Cheung (Communication Officer), Tel: (852) 2241 5512, Email: elenac@hku.hk      
