[title]A WORLD-CLASS BUSINESS SCHOOL ENVISIONED FOR HK[/title]
[date]25 May 2004[/date]
 
The business schools of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) and the University of Hong Kong (HKU) will explore the idea of joining forces to establish a world-class business education brand for Hong Kong.
Working in the spirit of deep collaboration and sharing a common vision and objective, namely to build Hong Kong into a regional educational hub, the two business schools will study the feasibility of establishing a Hong Kong Business School that would leverage on the competitive advantages of both institutions, build greater synergies, advance teaching and learning, enhance innovative research, and further promote the development of global business leaders.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, applauded this initiative. "I am really delighted by the prospect of this partnership. This will advance the region's academic and research excellence and extend the reputation of Hong Kong as a top-notch business education provider. While broad consultation will be carried out to study the feasibility and detail of the proposed collaboration, I fully anticipate a 'win-win-win' situation for students, faculty and society."
Professor Paul Chu, President of HKUST, commented: "As Asia's world city, Hong Kong has unrivalled potential to develop into an international hub for quality business education. It is incumbent on the Business Schools of HKUST and HKU to forge a partnership that will facilitate the recruitment of more top students and faculty from around the world, and help fulfill the vision of Hong Kong as a regional and global center for excellence in learning and research."
The two Deans took the opportunity to highlight the complementary strengths of the two Business Schools.
"HKU Business School has a long-cherished tradition, a strong alumni base and a high-quality faculty," said Professor K C Chan, Dean of Business and Management at HKUST. "It has a wonderful reputation in economics, finance and business strategy, and its IMBA program in Shanghai has received great acclaim."
"For its part, HKUST Business School is renowned for its excellence in research and management education. It has achieved global recognition particularly through its MBA, EMBA and executive education programs, and is distinguished in many areas, including the international experience and diversity it offers," stated Professor Yue-Chim Richard Wong, Dean of Business and Economics at HKU.
The two universities will establish a joint working group to look into the feasibility of the proposed deep collaboration. Convened by the two Deans, the working group will comprise faculty and student representatives of the two Schools.
The two Deans will attend a meeting this afternoon to answer enquiries from the media. Details are as follows:
Date: Tue, 25 May 2004
Time: 3:30 pm
Venue: Function Room (Level 3), JW Marriott Hotel, Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong
Present: Professor K C Chan, Dean of Business and Management, HKUST, and Professor Yue-Chim Richard Wong, Dean of Business and Economics, HKU
For media enquiries only:
Adrian Cheung, HKUST, Tel: 2358-6305, email: acheung@ust.hk
Karen Tang, HKU, Tel: 2859-2601, email: karentang@hku.hk
