[title]The 178th Congregation of The University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]25 Nov 2008[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) conferred degrees upon a total of 6,636 graduates at the 178th Congregation held today (November 25) at the AsiaWorld Expo. This year, 338 graduates were awarded degrees at the doctoral level, 2,959 at the master level, and 3,339 received bachelor degree. The Pro-Chancellor of the University, Dr David Li, presided over the Congregation. HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui congratulated all graduates on behalf of the University. He told the graduates that although graduating in some very difficult economic times, they must have confidence in themselves as they are now equipped with the best university education in Hong Kong.
He said besides sharing the distinguished reputation of Hong Kong's first and foremost university, they have been armed with knowledge of their specific disciplines, analytical and intellectual skills, a variety of learning experiences within and outside the classrooms, as well as more worldly perspective gained from overseas exchanges and an increasingly internationalised student body on campus. Moreover, at HKU, they have been equipped with the capability of life-long learning - a gift that will serve them well for the rest of their lives.
"I am confident that you will be able to survive and excel in whatever harsh environment comes your way. The poor economy is transient but your knowledge and skills of enquiry will be with you always," said Professor Tsui.
Echoing Professor Tsui's views, Dr Victor Fung, the Chairman of the Council of HKU, who addressed the ceremony as the Guest of Honour, told the graduates that Hong Kong - a knowledge-based technology-driven economy - needs young people like them in those value-added knowledge-intensive industries.
Dr Fung advised the graduates to set their sights higher, and further abroad. He said the spirit at the heart of HKU was that its graduates would be able to serve China, both in Hong Kong and on the Mainland. With continuous economic growth, the Mainland needs for good governance, professional management and a solid social infrastructure - which the HKU graduates this year and in future would be able to contribute significantly to.
"Even in uncertain times, do not only measure your success by what you can afford to buy, where you live or who you know.  It's about what difference you can make to other people's lives ...... keep your hearts and minds outward looking, and be open to new possibilities. Look for chances to engage with people and ideas from around the world, and you will find that the world can be your oyster," he said.
"When faced with the challenges, opportunities and adventures of the globalised 21st century, I hope that you will rise to the occasion and do your alma mater proud!" Dr Fung concluded in sending off the Class of 2008 with the warmest good wishes.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui's Address:- http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/vc.doc
Guest of Honour Dr Victor Fung's Address:- http://www.cpao.hku.hk/media/chairman.doc
For enquiries, please contact Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk )


 
Dr Victor Fung, the Chairman of the Council of HKU, addressed the new graduates as Guest of Honour of the ceremony.
 
Dr David Li, HKU Pro-Chancellor, presided over the Congregation.
 
HKU conferred degrees upon a total of 6,636 graduates at the 178th Congregation.
 
Picture 4
 
Picture 5
 
Picture 6
 
Picture 7



