[title]HKU's E-Business Technology Institute marks 10th Anniversary cum New Projects Announcement on Food Safety and Logistics Waterway[/title]
[date]22 Oct 2009[/date]
 
The University's E-Business Technology Institute (ETI) marks its 10th Anniversary in 2009.  Today, ETI has organized a celebration seminar feature with keynote speeches and technical talks at the University's Cyberport Campus.
ETI is one of the most successful R&amp;D institute within the University which actively involved in the research and development of innovative e-business technologies for the local communities. Since its establishment in 1999, ETI was awarded over HK$90 millions from various governmental authorities to conduct applied researches in various areas such as e-business, logistics and supply chain management. Many of its developed technologies has been successfully commercialized in different solutions for Hong Kong MNCs and SMEs. For example, their RFID document management solution was deployed by one of the listed bank in Hong Kong to allow optimize their operational process. Besides, ETI actively collaborates with universities in Mainland China on different technologies that address to industry needs.   
The 10th Anniversary was officiated by Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice Chancellor and Professor Chung-Jen Tan, Director of ETI, in the Anniversary Celebration Seminar.  Professor Monty Newborn from the School of Computer Science of the McGill University was invited to give a keynote speech. 
Apart from the seminar, ETI reported progresses on the new research projects in food safety and the waterway logistics using RFID technology. In the food safety project, the project team will built an IT platform to utilize the available food safety and logistic data available to provide track and trace, alert as well as product recall services to the food industry as well as the consumer. 
The waterway logistics project will construct a logistics software application platform to provide the industry with affordable IT software. The platform provides certain customized features to meet the IT needs of different users and also to improve the IT proficiency of the waterway logistics operators to enhance their competitiveness. 
Media Contacts
Miss Gloria Lui
Corporate Communications Officer
E-Business Technology Institute
Tel:  2299-0503        Fax: 2299-0500       
Ms. Trinni Choy
Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: 2859-2606                Fax: 2858-4986      
About E-Business Technology Institute
The E-Business Technology Institute (ETI) was established as an independent R&amp;D organization of the University of Hong Kong in September 1999, with IBM China/Hong Kong as its core sponsor and technology partner. Its mission is to conduct research on e-business technologies, and promote and foster technology exchange and cooperation. ETI has developed several technologies in collaboration with its partners within and outside HKU. 
ETI expertise covers logistics and supply chain management, wireless security, pervasive computing, e-payment systems, XML data integration and management, business intelligence (BI) and data mining. ETI has developed a number of technologies, such as RFID Enabling Technologies for Retail and Logistics Industry, RFID Enablement Middleware for Enterprise Applications, Knowledge-Based Business Intelligence Analyzer, Wireless Sensing Intelligence for Real-time Drilling Process Monitoring, An Open Platform with Privacy Protection, Guaranteed Payment, and Secure and Fast Deliver for B2C E-Commerce and Server-Assisted Wireless Public-Key Infrastructure. 
For more information, contact us at (852) 2299 0505.

