[title]Two exhibitions to be held at the HKU Main Library refurbished atrium [/title]
[date]09 May 2016[/date]
 


The Main Library of the University of Hong Kong will present two concurrent exhibitions at the refurbished 2/F Atrium/Exhibitions Area of the Main Library. The refurbished Atrium/Exhibitions Area is part of the Main Library’s new 2/F Main Entrance construction. It is now ready for its first exhibitions, Reading the City – Library Architecture in Germany - an interpretation of prominent library buildings and urban culture in Germany in drawings by Fabio Barilari from May 16 to June 3, 2016 and Preserving the Past, Informing the Future Exhibition of the "Deacons Archives" from May 16 to June 30, 2016.
Reading the City – Library Architecture in Germany - an interpretation of prominent library buildings and urban culture in Germany in drawings by Fabio Barilari
In coordination with the Goethe-Institut Hongkong (sic) Library, the Main Library will present Reading the City – Library Architecture in Germany - an interpretation of prominent library buildings and urban culture in Germany in drawings by Fabio Barilari.
Italian architect Fabio Barilari visited several German cities with support from the Goethe-Institut in 2013 and 2015. During his travels he executed several drawings and sketches in which he interprets urban and library architecture. The exhibition shows a selection of his works along with additional information, short interviews with the library directors and quotes from talks with library users.
“In the digital era, libraries are no longer considered to be book repositories but have evolved into places where people can slow down, allow creativity to guide their focus, where available analogue and digital knowledge can converge“ (Text from Preface to exhibition by Klaus Ulrich Werner)
https://www.goethe.de/ins/cn/en/sta/hon/ver.cfm?fuseaction=events.detail&amp;event_id=20697320

Preserving the Past, Informing the Future
Exhibition of the "Deacons Archives"
The Deacons Archives contains the bulk of the early surviving records of Deacons and its predecessors, including client deeds and papers, wills and probate, deceased estate client files, powers of attorney, business contracts and agreements, certificates, legal correspondence, accounting records, and more. The date range for the Archives is from 1846 to 2007, with a bulk date range between 1880s and 1950s. This surely provides valued information reflecting the social and economic conditions of Hong Kong particularly in the late nineteenth century and the early twentieth century.
This exhibition intends to convey the depth, breadth and richness of the Archives’ holdings. The documents on display are various types of records relating to The University of Hong Kong, wills of local renowned entrepreneurs, land lease and land sale deeds, and other intriguing records ranging from the 1900s to the 1960s. A number of damaged documents which have been repaired and restored by our Preservation and Conservation team are also on display, along with images to illustrate the different repair processes.
Deacons is Hong Kong’s premier law firm and provides an extensive range of legal and commercial services to local and international businesses. With roots in Hong Kong beginning in 1851, it has long and distinguished histories coupled with influential and prominent partners and clients. The firm’s archival records can help develop connections within our communities, commemorate and encourage philanthropic activities, and contribute to Hong Kong society’s understanding of itself.
Media Contact:  Mr. Gary Chin, Tel: 2859 2211 / Ms. Marina Yeung, Tel: 2859 8903
