[title]HKU and WSD sign an agreement on infrastructure works at the Centennial Campus[/title]
[date]10 Oct 2007[/date]
 
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, and Director of Water Supplies, Mr Chan Chi-chiu today (October 10, 2007) signed an agreement for the re-provisioning of utilities and infrastructure works for the University's Centennial Campus.
To accommodate an expected 40% increase in student numbers in 2012 due to the introduction of a four-year university curriculum, HKU will construct the Centennial Campus to the west of the main campus, where freshwater and saltwater reservoirs of the Water Supplies Department (WSD) have stood for more than 60 years, serving western Mid-levels, Kennedy Town and the Peak.  
The Re-provisioning Works, which include an innovative engineering method of excavating tunnels for the storage of saltwater and used for the first time in Hong Kong, have commenced and will be completed in September 2009. The construction of the Centennial Campus will start subsequently targeting a 2012 completion date. 
As a green solution, housing the reservoirs in tunnels would prevent significant excavation and loss of tree cover, which were both environmentally and aesthetically unacceptable. 
The agreement, for which the WSD facilities will be re-provisioned by HKU, signifies a new chapter of long term partnership between HKU and WSD that has existed for nearly a century.   
"The history of the University's development has been interwoven with the history of water supplies to the Western District. The cooperation between the University and WSD dates back to the early 20th Century." said Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui. 
"The Centennial Campus will not only be a state-of-the-art campus which enhances the University's capacity for teaching, learning and research, it will also serve as a green oasis for the Central and Western District, and a welcoming, inspiring space that will promote a sense of pride in the University for generations to come," he continued. 
Director of Water Supplies Mr Chan Chi-chiu said: "The re-provisioning works bring about benefits to the water supply systems.  Some of our existing facilities are old and after re-provisioning we will be able to cut down our maintenance costs." 
"I am particularly delighted that HKU has decided to preserve 3 graded waterworks buildings of unique historic and heritage values.  These historic buildings, amidst the future Centennial Campus, will signify the partnership between the University of Hong Kong and the Water Supplies Department in the past century." added Mr Chan. 
Professor John Malpas, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University, outlined the progress of the re-provisioning works and the Centennial Campus Project during the ceremony. 
For photos of the signing ceremony please visit http://www3.hku.hk/eromedia/photo_album.php?permanent=1 . 
For media enquiries please contact Mr. Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations) of the External Relations Office, The University of Hong Kong at 2857 8555 or 91880219 or email him at henryho.kc@hku.hk . 

