[title]University Artists Scheme: Dialogue with Award-winning Conductor Yip Wing-sie[/title]
[date]01 Mar 2012[/date]
 
Award-winning conductor Yip Wing-sie joined Professor Daniel Chua, Head of the School of Humanities, in conversation today (March 1) at an event held under the HKU University Artists Scheme.
Ms Yip shared her thoughts on music and life, and discussed her experimentation with various musical styles targeted at different audiences, including her recent collaboration with pop-star Hacken Lee, "As a conductor, I believe that my role lies not only in inspiring young musicians in their pursuit of musical excellence, but also in developing an audience base through outreach programmes. Arts education is valuable because it teaches us to think creatively and I hope more can be done to get people of all ages involved in music-related activities."
During the Forum, she discussed the technique of several world-renowned conductors and how the expression of their feelings for a piece of music through tempo and phrasing affects the listening experience. She also revealed that Carlos Kleiber conducting Beethoven's Symphony No. 7 is her favourite performance by a conductor.
The Forum's Moderator, Professor Daniel Chua, Head of the School of Humanities, extended his gratitude to Mr Daniel Chan for his generous support of the University Artists Scheme and for making the event possible.
About the University Artists Scheme (UAS)
The University Artists Scheme was officially launched in 2008 and is the first programme of its kind to be held at HKU. The Scheme brings artists of international caliber to the campus, to share their knowledge with and enrich the lives of students, staff and the community.
The University Artists Scheme is hosted by the Faculty of Arts, HKU and supported by the Daniel Chan Fund.
Media enquiries, please contact:
Ms Georgina Challen, Public Affairs Manager, Faculty of Arts (tel: 2219 4250 email: gchallen@hku.hk ) or Ms Phyllis Mak, Programme Manager, Faculty of Arts, HKU (tel: 2859 8048, email: kpmak@hku.hk ). UAS website: http://arts.hku.hk/UAS/.


 
Maestro Yip Wing-sie and Professor Daniel Chua, Head of the School of Humanities, at the HKU Public Forum “Behind the Music- In Conversation with Maestro Yip Wing-sie”.
 
Maestro Yip Wing-sie and Professor Daniel Chua, Head of the School of Humanities, at the HKU Public Forum “Behind the Music- In Conversation with Maestro Yip Wing-sie”.
 
Mr. Daniel Chan, donor of the University Artists Scheme presented HKU Centenary Stamps to Maestro Yip Wing-sie



