[title]HKU Faculty of Engineering holds Centenary Kick-off Ceremony[/title]
[date]15 Apr 2011[/date]
 
The Faculty of Engineering of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) held a Centenary Kick-off Ceremony today (April 15) as a prelude to a series of celebration programmes in 2011-2012.
HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, and Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost Professor Roland T Chin, officiated at the Ceremony.
"The Faculty of Engineering has gone a long way to become what it is today, growing together with the ups and downs of Hong Kong society on the whole," said Professor Weng-Cho Chew, Dean of Engineering.  "The 100th anniversary is a time when we can reflect on our past, rejoice on our achievements, and look ahead to the future," he added.
The ceremony started with a video that showcased the remarks of several past Deans of Engineering, including Professor S Y King, Professor Vincent W S Leung, Professor Y K Cheung, Professor Y C Cheng, Professor T N Lam, Professor Paul Y S Cheung, Professor Joseph H W Lee, and Professor T S Ng.  Professor Lap-Chee Tsui and Professor Roland T Chin also presented prizes to winners of the Engineering Centenary Photo Contest and recipients of Centenary Prizes respectively.  The Centenary Prizes were set up specifically to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Faculty and to recognize outstanding students for their academic performances, leadership qualities, and community services. 
At the ceremony, many alumni and students also gathered on this special and joyful occasion.  Some of them went on stage to give wonderful performances.  
Professor Chew said: "As one of the two founding faculties of the University of Hong Kong, we always pride ourselves in our bilingual and holistic education.  As we celebrate the centenary, all staff and students are eager to move the Faculty of Engineering forward in an increasingly competitive globalized economy."
For enquiries please contact Veronica Leung, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2219 4707 /2546 9142 / E-mail: veronica.leung@hku.hk) or Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan, tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk.
