[title]New World Group Charity Foundation’s Donation for the Establishment of Medical Oncology Drug Discovery and Development Program 
at the Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong[/title]
[date]16 Jul 2015[/date]
 
With the generous support of New World Group Charity Foundation, the Department of Medicine in The University of Hong Kong (HKU) has newly established the “Medical Oncology Drug Discovery and Development Program” (Drug Development Program).  The donation acceptance ceremony has been held on June 29, 2015.
“We are pleased to receive the HK$ ten million generous donation from the New World Group Charity Foundation to support our Drug Development Program.  In fact, medical technology innovation and development is now one of the top priorities for future sustainable development in Hong Kong.  The establishment of the medical oncology drug discovery and development program will be in line with the strategic development in health and technology advocated by the Hong Kong Government.  And we shall focus on the development of cancer medicine as different kind of cancers take away many lives every year.  We believe that with our expertise in this aspect, more novel drugs can be discovered to help the cancer patients worldwide,” says Professor Karen Lam Siu-ling, Chair Professor in Medicine and Head of Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, HKU. 
Mr. Peter Cheng, Executive Director of New World China Land Limited said, “We are delighted to make a contribution to the oncology drug research program with a leading clinical and scientific team at Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong. Cancer is now the number one killing disease. Surgery and chemotherapy are common medical treatment to tackle cancer. Patients should take a longer time to recover. If they should take a longer time of treatment, they shall not be able to work and have to cope with financial difficulties. Through the development of anti-cancer medicine and practical trial and applications, we have faith that our collaboration is able to find better cure medicine for the well-being of the mankind and will make a significant impact on novel drug discovery throughout the region.”
About the “Medical Oncology Drug Discovery and Development Program”
The Drug Development Program is conducted by top specialised medical oncologists with a solid foundation in internal medicine and cancer medicine.  The drug development program will focus on drug discovery in cancers highly prevalent in Asia, such as hepatobiliary cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer and haematological malignancies.  Also, translational projects in new drug development may produce important genomic or biomarker data that are peculiar to Asia.  This drug development program can potentially help biotechnology and drug companies in the region to discover novel therapies for cancer patients in Hong Kong and the Asia Pacific area.
About the research team
Professor Kwong Yok-lam, Chui Fook-Chuen Professor in Molecular Medicine, Chair of Haematology and Haematological Oncology of Department of Medicine, HKU, is the Senior Advisor of this program.  Other key members of the program from the Department of Medicine include Dr Thomas Yau, Clinical Assistant Professor in Medical Oncology; Dr Joanne Chiu, Clinical Assistant Professor in Medical Oncology; Dr Roland Leung, specialist in Medical Oncology and Dr Hilda Wong, specialist in Medical Oncology.  All members have extensive experience in drug discovery and development in cancer medicine.
About New World Group Charity Foundation
In fulfilling the commitment of the New World Group to corporate sustainability, the New World Group Charity Foundation was established in 2011 with the mission not only to support meaningful and charitable activities in society, but also to provide practical support to various sports, art and cultural programmes initiated by the Group.  This establishment helps the Group to achieve its goals of improving social mobility of the under-resourced and fostering harmony in society.
For photos, please click the below link：
http://www.med.hku.hk/v1/news-and-events/press-releases


(From Left) Dr Norman Wai, Managing Director of New B Innovation Limited, Ms Leonie Ki, Executive Director of New World Development Company Limited and Mr Peter Cheng, Executive Director of New World China Land Limited and Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation presented the HK$ ten million cheque to the Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong to support the “Medical Oncology Drug Discovery and Development Program”.

(From Left) Dr Norman Wai, Managing Director of New B Innovation Limited, Mr Peter Cheng, Executive Director of New World China Land Limited and Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation, Ms Leonie Ki, Executive Director of New World Development Company Limited, Professor Gabriel M Leung, Dean of Medicine, Professor Karen Lam, Rosie T T Young Professor in Endocrinology and Metabolism, Chair Professor and Head of Department of Medicine, HKU and Professor Kwong Yok-lam, Chui Fook-Chuen Professor in Molecular Medicine, Chair Professor of Department of Medicine, HKU attended the donation acceptance ceremony and took a group photo.



