[title]HKU Zhejiang Institute of Research and Innovation (HKU-ZIRI) opens in Zhejiang [/title]
[date]17 Dec 2014[/date]
 



A ceremony to mark the opening of University of Hong Kong Zhejiang Institute of Research and Innovation (HKU-ZIRI) was held on December 10 (Wednesday) at Qingshanhu Science and Technology City in Lin’an of Zhejiang. HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson and Director of Zhejiang Province Science and Technology Department Mr Zhou Guohui officiated at the ceremony.
HKU-ZIRI will provide research and development in high-end and cutting-edge disciplines. Three research laboratories will be set up at the institute. They are the Research Laboratory for Industrial Internet-of-Things, Research Laboratory for Nanofluids and Thermal Engineering, and Research Laboratory for Aerodynamics and Acoustics. The Chief Scientists of the laboratories are Professor George Huang from the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, and Professors Wang Liqiu and Huang Lixi from the Department of Mechanical Engineering, HKU Faculty of Engineering. They will be leading over 30 postgraduate, PhD students and researchers to conduct research in the respective areas.  
Opening ceremony of HKU-ZIRI. Officiating guests HKU President Professor Peter Mathieson (eighth from left), Director of Zhejiang Province Science and Technology Department Mr Zhou Guohui (ninth from left) , and other guests.

The University has also taken the opportunity to sign memorandum of understanding with a number of high-tech companies in the Science and Technology City for collaborations in R&amp;D in the areas of Industrial Internet-of-Things, Thermal Engineering, and Aerodynamics and Acoustics. In the long run, the institute plans to establish two to three more research laboratories in the fields of Chemistry and Biochemistry.
HKU-ZIRI was incorporated in December 2012 with the support from CPC Zhejiang Provincial Committee, Zhejiang Provincial People’s Government, Science Technology Department of Zhejiang Provincial People’s Government, Hangzhou Municipal People’s Government and Lin’an Municipal People’s Government. It seeks to play a significant role in strengthening the partnership with Yangtze River Delta, and contributing to the promotion of innovation and incubation of new hi-tech industries of strategic importance, as well as the transformation of the industries in Zhejiang, with a view to contributing to the economic and social development of the Mainland through research. 
HKU-ZIRI 
The three R&amp;D laboratories of HKU-ZIRI 
Research Laboratory for Industrial Internet-of-Things (Chief Scientist: Professor George Huang from Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering)
Research Laboratory for Industrial Internet-of-Things aims to strengthen the partnership between IoT (Internet of Things) and traditional industry chain to improve their integrity.  Through the industrial IoT technology, the laboratory aims to explore a new way to improve and upgrade the traditional manufacturing industry in Zhejiang. 
Research Laboratory for Nanofluids and Thermal Engineering (Chief Scientist: Professor Liqiu Wang from Mechanical Engineering)
Laboratory for Nanofluids and Thermal Engineering will follow the latest trend of nanofluids and thermal engineering development, focusing on the fundamental and innovative R&amp;D of its theory, data simulation, experiments, and applications.  The research will push forward the development highly efficient energy industry and low-carbon economy in Zhejiang, so as to realize the fast sustainable development.  
Research Laboratory for Aerodynamics and Acoustics (Chief Scientist: Professor Lixi Huang from Mechanical Engineering)
Research Laboratory for Aerodynamics and Acoustics aims to transfer aviation technology into productive force.  The laboratory will help push forward the advancement of the equipment in energy power, environmental materials of sound absorption in construction and electrical products muting design of enterprises in Zhejiang.  The laboratory also expects to enhance Zhejiang to obtain a niche in the related high-tech area. 

For media enquiries, please contact: Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hkor Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 
