[title]HKU Salutes Distinguished Academics For Teaching and Research Excellence[/title]
[date]19 Feb 2009[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) held its award Presentation Ceremony for Excellence in Teaching and Research 2008 today (February 19) to honour and celebrate the dedication and outstanding teaching and research achievements of its distinguished faculty members. 
HKU Pro-Chancellor, Dr the Hon David Li Kwok-Po, the Guest of Honour of the ceremony, and Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, together with over 200 guests, shared the moments of pride and joy with the award recipients. 
Speaking at the opening of the ceremony, Professor Tsui reiterated the determination of the University in pursuing excellence.  He said, "Today we have come together to honour our colleagues who have demonstrated outstanding performance in teaching and in research. This annual ceremony provides the opportunity to give due recognition to these excellent individuals, to thank them for the positive impact they are having at HKU and beyond, and, hopefully, to also encourage others to accomplish such achievements." 
It is the eighth year the University has held the award ceremony to salute colleagues who excel in their teaching and research.  Altogether, 49 awards were granted to distinguished faculty members in 5 categories, including outstanding teachers, researchers, young researchers, research student supervisors and faculty members with who produce outstanding research publications in the 10 Faculties of the University. 
In his closing remarks, HKU Pro-Chancellor Dr the Hon David Li Kwok-Po said the high calibre of the awardees today indicated that: "the University has a solid basis of achievement to build upon, and that it has both the talent and determination to lift its high reputation even further."  He was confident that these assets could enable HKU to embrace the challenges and seize the opportunities of the imminent 4-year new curriculum. 
For the list of award recipients, please visit: http://www.hku.hk/award/award_recipients.html
For photo of the Ceremony. please click in http://www.hku.hk/hkumedia and check icon "Photo Gallery". 
For enquiries, please contact Ms Joanne Yung, Manager (Media) (Tel: 2859 2600/Email: hkumedia@hku.hk) 

