[title]2,103 HKU Family Members join Marathon; Alumna Wins 2 Prizes in Half-Marathon Race[/title]
[date]17 Feb 2008[/date]
 
A total of 2,103 students, staff, alumni and their families joined the Marathon Team of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) to participate in the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon today (February 17). The record number of team members, represents a rise of 15% from the figure of 1,812 last year, has won HKU the Top Prize of the Most Supportive Group Award of the event. The University has snatched the prize for three years in a row.
HKU alumna Ms Rachel Sproston won the FIRST place in Master 1 category of Half Marathon (Women) and the THIRD place in Half Marathon (Women) with the remarkable result of 1 hour 29 minutes 16 seconds. Ms Sproston is HKU's graduate in Postgraduate Diploma in Education.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui led the HKU team to run at the Marathon for the third year. He has also participated in the 10-Km category. This year, over 75% of the HKU Team are HKU alumni and their families, ranging from 9 years old to 70 years old. Over 100 members and friends of HKU also volunteered as support and cheering team today.
Under the theme of "United We Run!", the HKU Marathon Team, since 2006, aims at encouraging students, staff and alumni of HKU to participate in the sport of running. The Team believes that "a fit body makes for a fit mind" and that running trains one's body and mind, particularly the endurance and perseverance. In order to introduce running to University members and to encourage them to join the event, the HKU Marathon Team Organising Committee has provided a series of seminars and training sessions to both beginners and experienced runners on safe running and ways of enhancing performance.
Sports Fund for Students
The HKU Marathon Team also takes the opportunity to solicit team members' support of it's the "Sports Fund for Students" established last year. The Fund aims to support HKU students who aspire to achieve excellence in the sporting arena. Through the Fund, financial assistance would be offered to students for preparation or participation in international or overseas competitions, or to purchase or update sports equipments.
Ms Elaine Chan Yu-ning, who has qualified to represent Hong Kong in the women's 50-metre freestyle at the Beijing Olympics, has been one of the beneficiaries of the Fund.
Aspiring for excellence, she needs to train 8 times per week, totaling more than 20 hours' hard effort. Along with the intense training, Elaine also needs to juggle with her busy university schedule leaving virtually no spare time for part-time work. Yet for each practice day, she has to travel between Kowloon and Hong Kong Island, spending several thousands per month on transportation alone. With the support from the Fund, she can at least practice free of financial cares now.
The setting up of the Sports Fund and the support from the Marathon Team and University members provide recognition and encouragement to young people who are determined to achieve excellence in sports.
For photos of the HKU Marathon Team, please access:- &lt;http://www.marathon.hku.hk &gt; after 5:00pm today (February 17) 
For media enquiries, please contact:-
- Ms Janet Chung, Development and Alumni Affairs Office, on 2859 2608
- Ms Denise Wong, External Relations Office, on 2859 2600
