[title]HKU FBE Students Win Global Championship in APEX Global Business IT Case Challenge[/title]
[date]05 May 2011[/date]
 
A team of three students from HKU Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE) has won the championship in the APEX Global Business IT Case Challenge in Singapore on April 29, beating out 27 universities from 14 countries from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America and Australia. It is also the first time that an Asia team has won in this competition.
The Challenge, with the theme of business analytics this year, involved intensive collaborative works during the 5-day competition. Participating teams had to analyse a case focus on innovative applications of information technology in a business firm and to present their proposals before an international judging panel. Judges of the year included senior management from Deloitte, Citibank, Credit Suisse, McKinsey &amp; Co., and Nomura.
Professor Eric C Chang, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics said, "I would like to congratulate the winning team on its excellent achievement in this year's APEX Global Business IT Case Challenge. The championship exemplified the Faculty's commitment to experiential learning in nurturing future leaders with global perspective and all-round business skills. I would also like to thank the Faculty for taking the extra mile in being coaches and mentors to our students."
Named Team Target, the three outstanding FBE students are Liu Han, BBA(IS), Chan Chi Wai, BBA(IS), and Lui Sing Lui, BBA(IBGM). The team has won the championship with excellent team spirit, outstanding ability for decision analysis, meticulous attention to technological and financial details, and top-notch presentation skills. Coaching the winning team in this highly competitive challenge was Dr Indranil Bose, Associate Professor of Innovation and Information Management at the School of Business.
Media interested in interviewing the winning team can contact HKU FBE for further arrangement.
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms. Mabel Fung, Senior Manager, Communications and Corporate Relations, Faculty of Business and Economics, HKU. Tel: +852 2219 4716. Email: mbfung@hku.hk.
About the Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is Hong Kong's first and foremost university, and is celebrating its centenary this year. The University's alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government.
The Faculty of Business and Economics (FBE), established with the amalgamation of the School of Business and the School of Economics and Finance, offers a full range of high quality degree programmes and serve different business and community needs.
As Asia's premier international business school, the Faculty has pioneered the International MBA Programme with Fudan University in Shanghai back in 1998, and a joint degree programme - EMBA Global Asia with Columbia Business School (CBS) and London Business School (LBS) in 2008
Its MBA full time programme, offered in partnerships with CBS and LBS has a strong Asia and China focus and was ranked Asia's no. 1 in the World MBA Rankings released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in 2010.
The Faculty continues to attract top students from Hong Kong and beyond. In 2010, 48% of the entire non-local undergraduate admission of HKU comes to FBE. Three of its undergraduate programmes are ranked among the University's top 10 programmes.
FBE is fully accredited by the European Quality Improvement Systems (EQUIS). Its accounting and business programmes are also accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).
For more information, please visit: www.fbe.hku.hk. 
About APEX Global Challenge
APEX Global Challenge is an annual international undergraduate business IT case competition hosted by Singapore Management University. It aims to serve as a platform for the world's brightest undergraduates to display their knowledge of dealings in business and IT domains and fight it out for the world's very best. Chief Sponsor of this year's Challenge is Deloitte Consulting.

Winning Team (2nd from left): Dr Indranil Bose, Associate Professor of Innovation and Information Management at the School of Business, Liu Han, BBA (IS), Chan Chi Wai, BBA (IS) and Lui Sing Lui, BBA(IBGM)


