[title]Officials from mainland China and Hong Kong SAR to deliver Faculty of Engineering Distinguished Lecture at HKU[/title]
[date]18 Mar 2004[/date]
 
The Faculty of Engineering of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) is to welcome Madam Qian Zhengying, an Academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, and Ir Damien Ku, Assistant Director of Water Supplies Department, HKSAR, to deliver lectures for the Faculty of Engineering Distinguished Lecture series.
Madam Qian Zhengying will give a lecture entitled New Concept on China's Water Management – Man and Nature in Harmony, which will be followed by a lecture given by Ir Damien Ku on Water Environment and Water Supply Development Strategy in Hong Kong.Details of the lectures are as follows:
Date: March 19, 2004 (Friday)
Time: 4:00pm to 6:00pm
Venue: Rayson Huang Theatre, the University of Hong Kong
Members of the press and interested public are cordially invited to attend.Please find the biographies of the speakers and the abstract of the talks listed as follows. 
For media enquiries, please contact the Faculty of Engineering Office at 2859 2803.

About Madam Qian Zhengying 
Madam Qian Zhengying was born in Shanghai on 4 July 1923. Her native place is in Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province. She is a Vice-Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), and an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
In 1939, she was enrolled into the Department of Civil Engineering, Datong University in Shanghai, where she took an active part in student movement. In 1941, she joined the Communist Party of China (CPC) underground and later became Secretary of a secret branch committee of the Communist Party of China.
In 1949, she held concurrent posts of Vice-Director of Water Conservancy Department of East China Political and Military Commission and Vice-Director of Project Department of Huaihe River Commission, and she was President of East China Technical University of Water Resources (now named Hohai University) from1950 to 1952.
She was appointed Vice-Minister of Water Resources in 1953, and later Vice-Minister of Water Resources and Electric Power.
Since 1975, she had served as Minister of Water Resources and Electric Power, and then as Minister of Water Resources.
In 1994, she was elected the Sixth President of Red Cross Society of China. In 1997, she was elected an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. She won the Prize of Technology Engineering of China in 1998, which is the blue ribbon for Chinese engineers.
Since 1988, she has been Vice-Chairperson of the Seventh, Eighth and Ninth National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. She was a member of the Tenth, Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth and Fourteenth Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.
About the talk by Madam Qian Zhengying 
NEW CONCEPT ON CHINA'S WATER MANAGEMENT – MAN AND NATURE IN HARMONY
Water environmental problems have plagued China since ancient times.Enormous manpower and resources have been directed to water management construction works and drainage system projects to provide a better and more sustainable environment for the population.Water conservancy has always been a priority of the People's Republic of China Government.The Government has been building reservoirs, reinforcing dykes, harnessing rivers and developing underground and surface water resources.However, China is still hit by great losses from flooding every year.On the other hand, the acute shortage of water in the northern part of China has held back socio-economic development.Over-exploitation of water resource has resulted in ecological problems such as drying up of rivers and lakes, and exhaustion of underground water.Industrialization, urbanization and agricultural developments have led to serious water pollution and have further aggravated water environmental problems.
The Chinese Academy of Engineering has submitted two comprehensive reports to the State Council in recent years.Madam Qian, after detailed analysis and in-depth review of the reports, has proposed that future water conservancy works should emphasize the new concept of man and nature in harmony, which has clearly provided a new direction for solving China's flooding, water resources and environmental problems.
About Ir. Damien Chi-Chung Ku 
Ir. Damien Ku has been serving in the Water Supplies Department of Hong Kong for over 37 years.He has a wide range of experience in water supply engineering and management, from resources planning to customer services.
In the 1970's, he was mainly engaged in the planning of water supply systems to keep abreast of the territory's rapid demand for water.In the early 1980's, he was also involved in the management of water resources, when water rationing was still a threat to Hong Kong.Subsequently, he undertook a number of jobs including reservoir safety, supply operation, system maintenance, emergency repair and customer services.In the 1990's, he was put in charge of some major new work projects, such as Ma On Shan Treatment Works and Ngau Tam Mei Treatment Works.In recent years, as an Assistant Director of Water Supplies Department, he has been mainly involved in overseeing the supply of Dongjiang water from Guangdong as well as the development studies and human resources management of the Department.
Ir. Ku is very active in promoting professional activities.He is the International Vice President of The Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management, and has been organizing seminars and conferences for professionals in Hong Kong and Mainland China.
About the talk by Ir. Damien Chi-Chung Ku
WATER ENVIRONMENT AND WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY IN HONG KONG
Hong Kong is a small and densely-populated place with severe shortage of local fresh water resources.Upon the completion of a scheme in the 1960's to deliver raw water from Dongjiang in Guangdong over the hills to Hong Kong, followed by several projects of system expansion, the problem of water shortage has been resolved.This, however, has brought about the problem of cross-border water quality protection, highlighting the fact that water supply in Hong Kong is interwoven with the economic development, environmental protection and water resources management in the Dongjiang river basin.
In the interest of sustainable development, Hong Kong has introduced a number of innovative measures, such as using seawater for toilet flushing, to cope with its water demand.Nevertheless, there is still the need to further improve the water supply systems and to strengthen the water supply management, including the application of appropriate water treatment technologies to ensure high water quality, exploring the feasibility of desalination and effluent reuse to develop diversified water resources, and reducing water loss through the use of advanced instruments to monitor and control the leakage of water mains.In the face of the current water supply situation, Hong Kong has taken active steps to implement the Total Water Management Programme, using innovative and scientific methods to deal with issues related to future water supply and the water environment.
Ir Ku will give a brief account of the work of Water Supplies Department on the Programme and exchange views on urban area water supply with the experts and senior managers.
 
