[title]HKU Faculty of Dentistry Dean named a King James IV Professor by Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh[/title]
[date]18 Jan 2012[/date]
 



Professor Lakshman Samaranayake

Professor Lakshman Samaranayake, Dean of the HKU Faculty of Dentistry, Chair Professor of Oral Microbiology and Tam Wah-Ching Professor in Dental Science, has been appointed to a King James IV Professorship by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, UK.
The professorship is awarded annually by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh by open competition to surgeons or dental surgeons whose work has contributed significantly to the clinical or scientific basis of surgery.
"The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh is delighted to award the King James IV Professorship to Professor Lakshman Samaranayake for his distinguished research in oral health and disease, and for his contributions to surgical science," says Professor Kenneth Fearon, chairman of the College's Research Allocation Committee.
Professor Samaranayake, who hails from Sri Lanka, is the first Asian to receive this accolade. "I am very pleased to be elected to this prestigious professorship and to represent Asia, and particularly Hong Kong, on the world map of excellence in research and development in surgery," says Professor Samaranayake, who is world-renowned for his research work on oral microbiology and oral infections, especially those involving the fungus Candida.
The title of "King James IV Professor" will be formalised when Professor Samaranayake presents a special lecture this year in the UK about his specialty area.
The King James IV Professorship was established by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in 2001 to celebrate the new millennium, with the permission of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. Only about 30 professorships have been awarded since its inception.
Lakshman Samaranayake
Professor Lakshman Samaranayake has served as the Dean of the HKU Faculty of Dentistry, as well as the Director of the Prince Philip Dental Hospital (Hong Kong's only dental teaching hospital), for more than 8 years. Trained and qualified as both a dentist and an oral pathologist, he has held the Chair of Oral Microbiology at HKU since 1997. Professor Samaranayake is an internationally renowned researcher and educator, especially in the field of oral infectious diseases, and he has been an invited speaker at seminars, workshops, and symposia in more than 30 countries.
His research interests include oral infections, infection control in dentistry, and dental education. According to Biomedexperts.com, Professor Samaranayake is currently the world's foremost expert in oral candidiasis, the most common fungal infection of the mouth. He was recently bestowed with the highly coveted Distinguished Scientist Award by the International Association for Dental Research for his significant contributions to the field of dental research. In particular, among his research output during the past 3 decades are more than 400 scholarly publications including journal manuscripts, monographs, and textbooks. He has also been honoured by HKU, having received the Outstanding Researcher Award, Outstanding Research Student Supervisor Award, Research Output Prize, and Tam Wah-Ching Professorship in Dental Science.
The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh and King James IV Professorships
The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh is an international network with a membership of almost 20,000, in about 100 countries. The College is dedicated to the maintenance and promotion of the highest standards of surgical practice, through its keen interest in education, training, and rigorous examination and through its liaison with external medical bodies. The College has enjoyed a continuous existence as a corporate body since 1505 when the Barber Surgeons of Edinburgh were formally incorporated as a Craft Guild of the Burgh. This recognition is embodied in the Seal of Cause or Charter of Privileges granted to the Barber Surgeons by the Town Council of Edinburgh on 1 July 1505, allowing them to practise surgery within the city. This charter was confirmed under the Privy Seal on 13 October 1506 by King James IV of Scotland. The King had an interest in all matters scientific, including medicine and surgery, and was particularly proud of his skill as a dental surgeon, adopting the somewhat unusual practice of paying the patients.
To mark the Millenium, The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, with the College's Faculty of Dental Surgery, proposed the establishment of lectureships to be awarded annually by the College in open competition to practitioners of Surgery or Dental Surgery who have made a significant contribution to the clinical and/or scientific basis of surgery, and that they be called King James IV Professorships. Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II graciously gave her permission for the College to use the title King James IV. Up to five King James IV Professorships may be awarded annually: two to Dental and three to Surgical Fellows of the College. The courtesy title of Professor will be accorded to King James IV Lecturers for the duration of the College year in which their lecture is delivered.
For more information about Professor Lakshman Samaranayake, visit http://facdent.hku.hk/dean 
For more information about the HKU Faculty of Dentistry, visit http://facdent.hku.hk
For more information about the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, visit http://www.rcsed.ac.uk/site/297/default.aspx
For more information about the King James IV Professorships and for the list of previous awardees, visit http://www.rcsed.ac.uk/site/563/default.aspx 
Media contact:
Ms Trinni Choy, Assistant Director (Media) (Tel: 2859 2606 / E-mail: pychoy@hku.hk ), or Ms Melanie Wan, Manager (Media) (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: melwkwan@hku.hk ), Communications &amp; Public Affairs Office, HKU
