[title]Latest Release of LRC3 to Allow Hong Kong Academics Access to 45,000 Learning Objects[/title]
[date]18 Nov 2004[/date]
 
With the latest release of the Learning Resources Catalogue (LRC3), academics in all Hong Kong institutions now have access to a pool of 45,000+ learning objects from the USA, Canada, Australia and Britain, as well as from the LEARNet repository in Hong Kong.
Learning objects are self-contained, reusable resources such as images, movies, diagrams, interactive graphs, Flash simulations, text, exercises even whole modules. MIT's OpenCourseWare is one of the best-known examples of freely sharable learning objects. 
In LEARNet, objects are contributed and shared by colleagues both within and across institutions and are indexed in the on-line LRC3. Any academic in Hong Kong can search the LRC3 repository as well as six other international repositories at the same time.
LEARNet was established in 2003 with a Teaching Development Grant and funding from the University of Hong Kong (HKU). In the past two years LEARNet has: funded the production of 560 learning objects at five universities; set up the Learning Resources Catalogue – a data base available to any academic in the SAR; and developed a system of peer review to ensure that all the objects are of the highest quality.
The LRC3 was originally developed at the University of NSW and is now used by a growing international consortium of universities. The LEARNet team, led by Dr Ian Hart, worked with University of NSW to develop a set of tools enabling cross-institutional collaboration in developing and evaluating learning objects. The latest version of the LRC3 incorporates Federated Searching across six other academic catalogues: MERLOT, EdNA, Careo, UBC, SciQ and SMETE giving a potential total of over 45,000 learning objects. Negotiations are underway to include more partners with the aim of having 100,000 searchable objects by this time next year.
Most of these learning objects are available at no cost to teachers in higher education. 
Why would teachers want to use resources developed by academic colleagues in other universities?
Avoidance of duplication is a strong motivation. If you conduct a Google search on terms like "standard deviation" or "Shakespeare" you will return several million URLs. The Google results give no indication of the scope or quality of the material; whereas an LRC3 search provides information on level, content, difficulty, learning objectives and peer evaluation. 
Why would teachers agree to share materials that they have put many hours, or months, into developing?
One reason is peer recognition. Reviewed teaching materials can be included in applications for promotion and tenure in the same way as reviewed research and publication.
As for intellectual property protection, the LRC3 incorporates the Creative Commons copyright agreement: an internationally-recognized legal document that provides protection for registered works. 
In order to kick-start the sharing process in Hong Kong, LEARNet has funded the development and revision of more than five hundred separate resources in the fields of Architecture, Art, Biology, Computer Science, Ecology, Education, Engineering, Languages, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music and Psychology. These projects have been developed both by individuals at different institutions and by cross-institutional groups of academics.
In 2005 LEARNet will begin a drive to encourage teaching staff to make use of the LRC3 both for finding and contributing resources.Academics can join today at http://www.learnet.hku.hk/and following the link to their own University's LRC web site.
For more information contact Ms Sophia Lau, LEARNet Administrator, , or Dr David Johnston, Principal Supervisor,of HKU's Centre for the Advancement of University Teaching. 
 
