[title]Seven distinguished scholars named Croucher Research Fellows[/title]
[date]03 Apr 2014[/date]
 

(from left) Dr. Hayden So Kwok-hay (HKU), Dr. Yao Wang (HKU), Professor Danny Chan  (HKU),  HKSAR Chief Secretary for Administration Mrs Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, Professor Annie Cheung Nga-Yin (HKU), Professor Huang Yu (CUHK), Professor Jin Dong-Yan (HKU) and Professor James Lau Yun-wong (CUHK)

(The following press release is issued on behalf of the Croucher Foundation)
The Croucher Foundation held the presentation ceremony of its prestigious Research Fellowships today (April 3), honoring seven exceptional scholars from the University of Hong Kong (HKU) and the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) for their excellent scientific research achievements. Three awardees were presented with Senior Research Fellowships 2014/15, two with Senior Medical Research Fellowships 2014/15, and two others with the Innovation Awards 2013. The awards were presented by Mrs Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, GBS, JP, Chief Secretary for Administration of the HKSAR Government.
The recipients of Croucher Senior Research Fellowships 2014/15 are Professor Danny Chan and Professor Jin Dong-Yan of the Department of Biochemistry at Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine at HKU, as well as Professor Huang Yu of the School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine at CUHK. Professor Annie Cheung Nga-Yin, Professor of Pathology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine at HKU and Professor James Lau Yun-wong of the Department of Surgery, CUHK, were awarded Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowships 2014/15. Two scholars from HKU, Dr. Yao Wang, Assistant Professor of the Department of Physics, Faculty of Science and Dr. Hayden So Kwok-hay, Assistant Professor of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, were both awarded the Croucher Innovation Awards 2013.

HKU Croucher awardees with HKU President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson, HKSAR Chief Secretary for Administration Mrs Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor and Professor Mak Tak Wah, Chairman of  Board of Trustees, Croucher Foundation

Croucher Innovation Awards 2013

Dr. Yao Wang’s main area of research is spin electronics and spin quantum computation, which targets at more energy-efficient electronics and much faster information processing. The current focus of his team is to investigate electron’s spin and valley pseudospin in newly emerged atomically thin two-dimensional materials, and explore their quantum mechanical behavior for new concept quantum devices. His most representative work in HKU is the prediction of the physics associated with valley pseudospin of electron, previously thought to be unusable as there lacks control over this degree of freedom. His work makes possible in newly emerged two-dimensional materials the electrical and optical controls of valley pseudospin, making it a suitable carrier of information in electronics. His theory predictions have been observed by many experimental groups, and are making high impact internationally. (Please click here for Dr Yao Wang’s biography)


Dr. Hayden So Kwok-hay is the recipient of the Croucher Innovation Award in 2013 for his work in “Power-Efficient High-Performance Heterogeneous Computer Systems”. His main research interest is on the design and application of heterogeneous reconfigurable computers in the domain of biomedical imaging and big data processing. He is particularly interested in improving power-efficiency of computer systems through run-time reconfiguration and techniques that can bring reconfigurable computing to the main stream. (Please click here for Dr Hayden So's biography)

Croucher Senior Research Fellowships 2014/15

HKU Professor Danny Chan’s research focuses on skeletal biology, emphasising on development, growth and degenerative processes of the skeleton in health and disease. In addressing a condition with an abnormal growth plate causing dwarfism, Professor Chan and his research team found that the consequence is from activating a cellular stress signal (ER-stress) in hypertrophic chondrocytes of the growth plate, inducing a “reprogramming” event, and the cells become “rejuvenated”. This new discovery not only has significant implications in the control of chondrocyte differentiation in the growth plate, but also regenerative strategies for treating degenerative cartilage diseases, such as osteoarthritis and sport injuries. Professor Chan also identified a key genetic risk factor (CHST3) for intervertebral disc degeneration that provided new insights into the etiology, and changed the mindset of clinicians in patient care. (Please click here for Professor Danny Chan’s biography)


Professor Huang Yu has been recognized as one of the leading scientists in vascular biology research who contributed significantly to the growth of cardiovascular research particularly in the Asian region. In recent years, Professor Huang and his team in the CUHK have been actively exploring new and more innovative clinically-relevant research or translational research in vascular biology. The mission of his research programs is to elucidate cellular and molecular events involved in the initiation and progression of endothelial cell dysfunction in hypertension, obesity, diabetes, estrogen deficiency and ageing, to uncover novel relevant biomarkers for vascular pathogenesis, and to develop venues to reverse vascular dysfunction in animal models of cardio-metabolic disorder. Professor Huang and his team are currently attempting to reveal novel molecular mechanisms and signaling crosstalk that collectively mediate physical exercise-induced vascular benefits in obese and diabetic animals, aiming at exploring new therapeutic strategies for vascular diseases. (Please click here for Professor Huang Yu’s biography)


A pioneering scientist at HKU, Professor Jin Dong-Yan expertises in molecular basis of viral diseases and cancer research. Professor Jin and his research team found that the virus sensor RIG-I needs an RNA-binding protein partner called PACT to initiate and sustain innate antiviral response. His researches are internationally recognised as ground-breaking in the study of viral pathogenesis and virus-host interaction. Combining the biochemical and genetic approaches to conduct basic research in molecular virology and oncology, Professor Jin applied the knowledge gained to prevention and control of human diseases. (Please click here for Professor Dong-Yan Jin’s biography)

Croucher Senior Medical Research Fellowships 2014/15

HKU Professor Annie Cheung plays an important role in gynaecological research. Her research areas include oncogenic signal pathways and stem cell transcription factors in ovarian and endometrial cancers as well as gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD). Professor Cheung and her research team have reported that NANOG as an important transcription factor for maintaining embryonic stem cell self-renewal and pluripotency, its expression is significantly associated with metastasis, chemoresistance and is an independent prognostic factor for overall and disease-free survival in association with in vitro demonstration of cancer cell aggressiveness. Professor Cheung aims at investigating the role of NANOG in cancer stem cell biology and metabolism as basis to combat against chemoresistance and enhance survival of ovarian cancer patients. (Please click here for Professor Annie Cheung’s biography)

Professor James Lau Yun-wong is currently Professor of Surgery at CUHK and Director to Endoscopy Centre at Prince of Wales Hospital. Professor Lau is known internationally for his clinical research in management of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding from non-variceal causes. He has published several landmark studies investigating the relative roles of endoscopic treatment, pharmaco-therapy and surgery in prestigious medical journals including the New England Journal of Medicine and Lancet. These studies included a comparison between further endoscopic treatment and surgery in the treatment of patients with refractory bleeding, and the use of profound acid suppression before and after endoscopic treatment to prevent recurrent bleeding. His research has led to significant reductions in further bleeding (less than 5%), requirement for surgery and deaths (less than 1%) in patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding.  Professor Lau is currently leading multicenter international studies in determining the adjunctive role of interventional radiology to endoscopic treatment. It is hoped that his current research will achieve the aim of ‘zero’ re-bleeding in patients with acute non-variceal upper gastrointestinal bleeding. (Please click here for Professor James Yun-wong Lau’s biography)

Croucher Senior Research Fellowships
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997. The value of each Senior Research Fellowship is about HK$900,000, which includes a personal grant of HK$60,000 to the recipient for research expenses.  It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work as judged by leading international scientists invited to provide confidential reviews of candidates nominated in a competitive exercise.  Funds are awarded to the universities of the fellowship recipients, enabling the university to recruit replacement teachers to take over the award winner’s duties for the period of the fellowship.  This enables the awardees to devote more time and effort to research work.
Croucher Innovation Awards
Established in 2012, the Croucher Innovation Awards aim to identify a small number of exceptionally talented scientists working at an internationally competitive level and to offer substantial support to these “rising stars” at a formative stage in their careers. The scheme is designed to enable recipients to pursue their own scientific, intellectual and professional inclinations, to advance their expertise, to engage in bold new work, and to contribute to the development of education and research in Hong Kong. Each award carries a value of up to HK$5 million over 5 years.
Media enquiries:
The University of Hong Kong
Communications and Public Affairs Office
Melanie Wan
Tel: 2859 2600
Email: melwkwan@hku.hk
The University of Hong Kong
Communications and Public Affairs Office
Rhea Leung
Tel : 2857 8555
Email : rhea.leung@hku.hk
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
Communications and Public Relations Office
Nancy Kuo
Tel: 3943-8501
Email: nancykuo@cuhk.edu.hk
