[title]The Association of Commonwealth Universities Conference of Executive Heads 2011 “Higher Education in Hard Times - Risk, Reputation, Reform"[/title]
[date]06 Apr 2011[/date]
 

The ACU Conference of Executive Heads 2011 was inaugurated today (April 6) in the University of Hong Kong (HKU).
The three-day conference, entitled "Higher Education in Hard Times - Risk, Reputation, Reform: Developing new business in a changing environment", has been organised by the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU), and co-hosted by the three local ACU member universities including HKU, The Chinese University of Hong Kong and The Open University of Hong Kong. Sponsored by The Croucher Foundation and British Council, the Conference is one of the HKU Centenary celebration programmes.
Over 150 vice-chancellors and representatives from 127 universities and institutions, representing 22 countries and six continents, together with 55 local guests have registered for the event.
Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui extended his warm welcome to participants on behalf of fellow local members. He said the universities' ongoing connection with the association had great relevance for higher education in today's globalised world.
"We live in a world that is more scientifically and technologically advanced and interconnected than at any other time in history.
ACU is one of the oldest and largest inter-university networks in the world, and is well placed to offer its expertise and experience in facilitating and fostering collaboration among universities of diverse cultural and geopolitical background. As leading institutions of higher learning in respective countries and regions, each brings a unique set of contributions to our common goals and shared mission of education, to advancing knowledge and educating the next generation of global citizenship," said Professor Tsui.
Professor Jamil Salmi, Tertiary Education Co-ordinator of World Bank, delivered a keynote speech entitled "Higher Education in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges" to share his views on the future of higher education, elaborating on issues including the importance of knowledge, changing education needs and practices, and the implications to developing countries. Another 16 speakers from UK, Hong Kong, Australia, Malaysia, South Africa and India also shared their thinking on issues such as creating and retaining global identity, rankings, university management, strategic partnership with business and industry and its objects and challenges.
Other participants included Mr Michael Stone, Secretary General of the University Grants Committee; Dr Theuns Eloff, Chair of the ACU Council; Professor Joseph Sung, Vice-Chancellor and President of The Chinese University of Hong Kong; Professor John Leong, President of The Open University of Hong Kong; Mr David Foster, Executive Director of The Croucher Foundation and Mr Peter Upton, Director South China of British Council.
The second and third day of the conference will be held in The Chinese University of Hong Kong and The Open University of Hong Kong respectively.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 / email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 / email: melwkwan@hku.hk .
Over 150 representatives from 127 universities and institutions all over the world attend the ACU conference at HKU
ACU Conference of Executive Heads 2011


