[title]They have a dream -- Youths write about their Favorite HKU Alumni[/title]
[date]22 Dec 2007[/date]
 
Sixteen young contestants are awarded today (December 22) for their brilliant essays on community integration they submitted to The Hong Kong Central &amp; Western District and Southern District Youth Chinese Writing Competition 2007. 
The Competition was jointly organized by The University of Hong Kong (HKU), the Chinese Language Society of Hong Kong, Education Bureau, Federation of Parent-Teacher Associations of the Central and Western District, and was sponsored by the Central &amp; Western District Council. 
Holding from September 3 to October 31, the Competition targeted at all full-time students of F.4 or above, who either resided or studied in Central &amp; Western District or Southern District. F.4 and F.5 students belonged to the "Junior Category" while those in F.6, F.7 and undergraduate years were in the "Senior Category". 
The main subject in their essays had to center upon the integration of HKU and the local community, the titles of which were decided by individual contestants. 
The Competition received enthusiastic response, with 262 submissions altogether. The essays had been graded by three adjudicators before they came up with a list of winners:
For the Junior Category:- First Prize : Lam Tat Chung (King's College), Second Prize: Lai Hin Ting (St. Joseph's College), Third Prize: Leung Yik Lok, Laurence (King's College). 
For the Senior Category:- First Prize: So Ying Ching (St. Paul's Co-Educational College), Second Prize: Luk Sze Suen (HKU SPACE), Third Prize: Chan Man Sze (HKU). 
The prize presentation ceremony took place this morning in Main Building, HKU, less than 100 metres from the statue of Dr Sun Yat Sen that overlooks the Lily Pond on campus, as the crow flies. 
Dr Sun was born in Guangdong more than a hundred years ago. However, neither the distance nor the time could separate the Father of Modern China and the young people today. 30% of the contestants wrote about him in their essays. 
Among the other favorite HKU alumni, there were the late lyricist James Wong, the late writer Eileen Chang, the Cantonese pop star Sam Hui, the heartthrob Alex Fong, the legislators Anson Chan and Alan Leong. 
Laurence Leung, who came third in the Junior Category, has developed a deep admiration for the HKU alumni. He writes, "They dreamt that by contributing to the people, the society or the nation, they could appeal to the better nature of mankind, hence lifting the noble spirits of the society. 
What is ever changing? It is the people. What is never changing? It is the spirit, the heart, the dream." 
For media enquiries please contact Mr Henry Ho, Senior Manager (Community Relations) of External Relations Office, HKU (Tel: 2857 8555 / 9188 0219 / E-email: henryho.kc@hku.hk . 

