[title]“HKU Memories from the Archives” Exhibition
Over 100 HKU archival records and artefacts 
on public display for the first time[/title]
[date]06 Dec 2011[/date]
 
The University Archives and the University Museum and Art Gallery of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) are pleased to announce an exhibition on the history of the University through the collections of the University Archives, as part of the University's Centenary celebrations.
HKU Memories from the Archives introduces the development of the University from its founding in 1911 to the present day. Over 100 archival records and artefacts are displayed including some from the Libraries, the Museum, private collections and student groups. Many of them have not been exhibited before. Among the themes and rare items in the exhibition are:
- Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese and Dr Sun Yat-sen - featuring Dr Sun's transcript; and a photograph of the "Four Bandits"
- Early days of HKU - the University Mace, silver inkstand and trowels as well as the 1912 silver model of the Main Building and its original architectural drawings given to Governor Sir Frederick Lugard in 1916
- Important figures of pre-war, wartime and post-war period - Xu Dishan, Eileen Chang during pre-war period; artefacts relating to the British Army Aid Group, whose members operated secretly to save lives and protect Hong Kong; Figures in post-war period include Sir Lindsay Ride, Professor Hou Pao-Chang and poet Edmund Blunden
- Early graduation certificates, marking sheets, calendars
- HKU's Student Union and its affiliated societies - an album of photographs recording activities dating from 1912 to 1939
As the first exhibition to feature the collections of the University Archives, it will also foreground the important role that archives play in preserving both personal and institutional histories, and some of the conservation concerns in taking care of artefacts of the past.
The exhibition opening will take place at the Museum on today (6 Dec). The Dr the Honorable Leong Che-hung, Chairman of the Council, HKU; Professor Lap-chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor, HKU, and Mr Wong Kai-man, Chairman of the Azalea (1972) Endowment Fund Management Board will officiate.
The exhibition will be open to public from 7 December 2011 to 18 March 2012. The Museum's opening hours are: Monday to Saturday 9:30 am-6:00 pm, Sunday 1:00-6:00 pm. The Museum will be closed on 24-27 December, 31 December (pm), 1-2 January, 22-25 January and 16 March. Free admission.
For media enquiries, please contact Ms Carol Ho (Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2219 4263, e-mail: carho@hku.hk or the University Museum and Art Gallery (tel: 2241 5503) 
For photos and captions of highlighted exhibits, please click here


 
Silver Model of the Main Building, 1912
 
Golden Trowel with which Sir Frederick Lugard laid the Foundation Stone of the Main Building on 16th March 1910
 
Hong Kong University Bazaar Poster, 1912
 
1941 Hong Kong Centenary Stamp featuring King George VI and the University
 
(From left) Ms Stacey Gould, the University Archivist, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor, Dr the Honorable Leong Che Hung, Chairman of the Council, Mr Wong Kai-man, Chairman of the Azalea (1972) Endowment Fund Management and Mr Yeung Chun-Tong of the University Museum and Art Gallery at the Opening Ceremony.



