[title]HKU Faculty of Engineering holds Centenary Exhibition at Times Square[/title]
[date]01 Jul 2011[/date]
 


The Faculty of Engineering of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) is holding a three-day Centenary Exhibition beginning today (July 1) at Times Square of Causeway Bay to showcase a variety of applied research projects of its departments. 
The exhibition is part of a series of the faculty's celebration programmes in 2011-2012. 
An opening ceremony of the Centenary Exhibition was held in the morning in the Covered Piazza of Times Square.  Ir Wai Chi Sing, Permanent Secretary for Development (Works), Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Ir Dr Chan Fuk Cheung, President, Hong Kong Institution of Engineers; and Professor Weng-Cho Chew, Dean of Engineering, The University of Hong Kong, officiated at the ceremony and participated in ribbon-cutting.  Engineering alumni and students gathered on this special occasion to celebrate the achievements of HKU Engineering. 
Professor Weng-Cho Chew, HKU Dean of Engineering said: "I am proud of the achievements of our teaching and research staff.  Today, we showcase some of the applied research projects of our Faculty members.  As we celebrate the centenary, all staff and students are eager to move the Faculty of Engineering forward in an increasingly competitive globalized economy." 
The engineering projects shown at the exhibition to the public include face detection and recognition technology, tracking device and technology for logistic applications, simulation &amp; 3D technology, ventilation, and the application of nano-materials.  
Professor Chew added: "Engineers almost always work behind the scenes and the public may not realize that the work we do have great impact on the community.  The results of many research projects actually change the way we live." 
Faculty of Engineering Centenary Exhibition 
Date:       July 1 to 3, 2011 (Friday to Sunday) 
Time:       10:30 am - 10:00 pm 
Venue:     Covered Piazza, Times Square, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong
For enquiries please contact Veronica Leung, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2219 4707 /2546 9142 / E-mail: veronica.leung@hku.hk) or Ms Trinni Choy, tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk or Ms Melanie Wan, tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk. 

 


HKU Dean of Engineering Professor Weng-Cho Chew, Permanent Secretary for Development (Works) Ir Wai Chi Sing and President of Hong Kong Institution of Engineers Ir Dr Chan Fuk Cheung
 
members of HKU Faculty of Engineering

HKU Faculty of Engineering holds Centenary Exhibition at Times Square
 
 
 
 
