[title]HKU MBA continues its rise in the EIU World MBA Rankings[/title]
[date]28 Sep 2007[/date]
 
The MBA Programme of the Faculty of Business and Economics of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) continues its five-year upward trajectory in the 2007 World MBA Rankings by the respected Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), an affiliate of The Economist magazine. In EIU's 2007 rankings announced today, HKU MBA ranks 37th among the world's top 100, up from 39th last year. It is the only programme in Asia and Australasia that makes the world's top 50 three years in a row.
Professor Gary Biddle, Dean of HKU Faculty of Business and Economics, said, "As incoming Dean of the HKU Faculty of Business and Economics, I am delighted that the HKU MBA Programme once again ranks among the best in the world according to the respected Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU). Congratulations are due to all faculty, staff, students and alumni. With new enhancements already underway, I am confident that HKU's MBA will surge even higher in the future."
Dr. Chris Chan, Director of HKU's MBA Programme, said, "The HKU MBA has improved significantly in reputation and quality in a short period of five years. With our excellent international student mix, strong Asia-focused faculty and teaching methodologies, and world-class partnerships with Columbia and London Business School, I am very proud of HKU MBA's achievement and the recognition received from the prestigious international EIU. The HKU MBA has emerged as one of the best programmes in the region and will continue to strive to be the best."
As a result of its rising stature, the HKU MBA programme has attracted top-notch students from more than 12 countries/regions each year. These students have outstanding academic credentials from renowned universities such as Harvard, UC Berkeley, UCLA, London School of Economics, Peking University, Tsing Hua University, etc.. The most recent graduates were offered executive positions at Hilton Hotel International, Standard Chartered Bank, Hewitt Associates, Sino Land, Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas, Marriott International, Goldman Sachs, and Watson Wyatt Consulting.
Despite its relatively young full-time MBA programme, the Faculty of Business and Economics has earned impressive marks in world rankings. When it first entered the EIU rankings in 2003, it placed 79th globally. In 2004, it climbed to 68th. In 2005, it was ranked 45th and became the highest ranked school in Asia and Australasia. Considered to be a rare feat by an Asian school, the HKU MBA was recognized as one of the world's top 40 in 2006. This year's climb further reinforces the rising and consistent performance of the HKU MBA in prestigious global rankings.
The EIU rankings are based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe:
 Career opportunities and advancement
 Personal development and educational experience
 Salary increase
 Potential to network
These factors closely match the cornerstones around which the HKU MBA structures its programme and its development. It is particularly strong in the category of "personal development and educational experience", due to the high quality of its faculty and students, its culturally diverse student body, its solid curriculum, its teaching and research emphasis on Asia business, and strong networking opportunities.
Another major feature of the HKU MBA is its well-established partnerships with world-renowned institutions. Its partnerships with London Business School and Columbia Business School enable all full-time MBA students to spend up to four months at these world-class schools as an integral component of their MBA studies. These partnerships benefit students tremendously in terms of their educational and networking experience in the three foremost financial capitals of the world, namely, Hong Kong, London and New York.
For enquiries, please contact: Dr. Chris Chan, MBA Programme Director, at telephone number: 9182 7811; email: chrischan@business.hku.hk
