[title]Heritage Buildings to house Environmental Education Centre[/title]
[date]16 Apr 2008[/date]
 
The Lung Fu Shan Environmental Education Centre (LFSEEC) Opening Ceremony was held today (April 16, 2008). Jointly operated by the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) and The University of Hong Kong (HKU), this is the first partnership of its kind established between the EPD and a tertiary institution to manage an Environmental Education Centre. Located on the fringes of HKU campus and close to the Lung Fu Shan Country Park, the LFSEEC comprises one Grade I and two Grade III historical houses, built between 1914-1919. The Centre also comprises an eco-pond with different kinds of freshwater fish and plants, as well as a courtyard with abundant vegetation that attracts a diversity of bird and butterfly species. It offers a unique opportunity for members of the public to observe nature.
Mr Edward Yau, Secretary for the Environment said, "The new Centre offers a distinctive opportunity for visitors to learn about our natural environment through a real touch with the plentiful vegetation in the vicinity that has attracted a diversity of bird and butterfly species."
"We believe that through guided tours, workshops and training programmes to be organized by The University of Hong Kong, the new Centre will help develop the public's sense of responsibility to protect natural habitats and combat environmental problems like climate change." added Mr Yau.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, said, "On behalf of the University, I would very much like to express my gratitude to the Government and the Environmental Protection Department for all their efforts in bringing this project to realization and for providing the community with such an excellent facility."
"We were particularly enthusiastic to be involved in this important project not only because of its proximity to our own campus but also because it would showcase the University's firm commitment to environmental conservation and sustainability. The Centre will be formally under the management of a new University institute, the Kadoorie Institute (to be established in July this year)." said Professor Tsui.
Dr Sarah Liao, the former Secretary for Environment, Transport and Works, who has provided invaluable support to this Centre, also officiated at the Opening Ceremony.
Website of the Lung Fu Shan Environmental Education Centre (LFSEEC):- http://www.kadinst.hku.hk/lfseec/
For Media Enquiries:
- Dr Winnie Law, Centre for Urban Planning and Environmental Management, HKU, Tel: 2857 8647 / Mobile: 9406 0195
- Mr Henry Ho, External Relations Office, HKU, Tel: 2857 8555 / Mobile: 9188 0219


 
Secretary for the Environment Mr Edward Yau (right), former Secretary for Environment, Transport and Works Dr Sarah Liao (left), and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui (middle) officiated a special ‘weed-cutting’ ceremony for the opening of the Centre.
 
A HKU demonstrator introduces the exhibits of the Centre.
 
Secretary for the Environment Mr Edward Yau (left), former Secretary for Environment, Transport and Works Dr Sarah Liao (middle), and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui take a look of the Eco-Pond, which has different kinds of freshwater fish and plants.
 
A group photo for guests and colleagues from the Centre.
 
The main building of the Centre is a Grade I historical building, built in around 1914-1919.



