[title]HKU MBA Programme Ranked No. 1 in Asia by Economist Intelligence Unit[/title]
[date]17 Sep 2010[/date]
 
In the latest World MBA Rankings released by the EIU (Economic Intelligence Unit) today, HKU's MBA Programme is ranked No. 1 in Asia. Earlier this month, the University has also been ranked Asia's best by Times Higher Education and QS respectively. 
Professor Eric Chang, Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics, said, "We are delighted to learn that our MBA is being recognized as Asia top's programme in the region and in the world. Despite the fact that the global economy has gone through some turbulent times in the past couple of years, the HKU MBA Programme has successfully stood the test. We are committed to continuing providing high quality business education to students from all over the world." 
Mr. Sachin Tipnis, Director of HKU's MBA Programme, added, "An important feature of Programme is that students, teachers, programme staff, career development staff, alumni all work together as one team to provide students the means to realize their potentials, plan their personal life, develop career goals and objectives, connect them to the right network, and promote their awareness of opportunities in the region and the world. We are very pleased that our efforts and resources invested in the development of the Programme have brought to us fruitful results." 
The HKU MBA Programme continues to grow in scale into week-end mode and China track, with strong demands from China, Asia, as well as Europe and North America. It has also expanded its career development service with more experienced staff to enhance its career counseling and job placement. 
The Economist MBA Ranking is based on independent surveys on the following factors considered to be essential to their education by MBA students around the globe: 
 Open new career opportunities and/or further current career
 Personal development and educational experience
 Increase salary
 Potential to network 
In 2010, the HKU MBA is ranked 11th in the world in personal development and educational experience overall with special strength in education experience (3rd rank). Other areas such as student assessment of career service, increase in salary and potential to network also received high ratings. 
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Mabel Fung
Senior Manager
Communications and Corporate Relations
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Tel: +852 2219 4716
Email: mbfung@hku.hk
－Ends－ 
About the Faculty of Business and Economics 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) is Hong Kong's first and foremost university, with a history of nearly 100 years. Our alumni are the "who's who" leaders of the region in business, education and government. 
HKU's Faculty of Business and Economics offers a full range of Bachelors and Masters degree programmes plus PhD degree and non-degree open enrollment and customized Executive Education programmes. 
Bachelor's degree programmes attract top students from Hong Kong and the region, with four ranking among HKU's top ten programmes in terms of average JUPAS entry scores (2009). More than 30% of HKU's elite students admitted via the "Early Admissions Scheme" (2009) choose the Faculty's programmes. 
The EMBA-Global Asia, jointly offered by Columbia Business School, London Business School and HKU Business School, is an expansion of the flagship EMBA-Global programme, which was ranked first in the world by the Financial Times in 2008. 
The full-time MBA programme, offered in partnerships with London Business School and Columbia Business School, has a strong Asia and China focus. Its unique features provide a rich and balanced education to students with local knowledge and global exposure. 
The International MBA offered in collaboration with Fudan University in Shanghai has twice been ranked "best of its kind" in Mainland China by the Academic Degrees Committee of the China State Council. 
While the Master of Economics programme has modeled its Hong Kong success with a similar programme launched in Shenzhen in collaboration with Peking University in 2005. Today, the Master of Finance programme in Shenzhen is offered in conjunction with either the Master of Economics or Master of Management programme of Peking University to bring together the rigorous training in finance and in economics/management of the two institutions.
The research excellence has enabled HKU to assume the position of the most successful university in Hong Kong in terms of securing competitive research funding from the Research Grants Council (RGC). 
For more information, please visit: www.fbe.hku.hk
 
 

