[title]The University of Hong Kong appoints Professor Peter William Mathieson as the 15th Vice-Chancellor[/title]
[date]04 Oct 2013[/date]
 
The Council of the University of Hong Kong (HKU) resolved unanimously today (October 4, 2013) to appoint Professor Peter William Mathieson as the 15th Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong (HKU), succeeding Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.
Professor Mathieson is a teacher, clinician, medical researcher and academic leader, and is currently the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry at the University of Bristol.
He is a distinguished nephrologist with a clinical interest in autoimmune renal diseases, and has rich experience in developing research and innovation strategies for the University of Bristol and the higher education sector in the UK. (For his detailed CV, http://www.gs.hku.hk/322-913.pdf )
Professor Mathieson today met with HKU students, staff and alumni in a series of forums, and attended the meetings of the University Senate and the University Council to articulate his vision for the University and to answer their questions.
Chairman of the Council and of the Selection Committee Dr C H Leong said: “I am delighted with the appointment of Professor Mathieson as our next Vice-Chancellor.”
“Professor Mathieson meets the selection criteria adopted by the Council because of academic standing and leadership, his integrity, his vision, the demonstration of his management capabilities, and the effectiveness of his interpersonal and communications skills.”
“I am confident that Professor Mathieson will lead the University to achieve the next level of excellence,” said Dr Leong.
Professor Mathieson said: “I am pleased and honoured to be appointed Vice-Chancellor of this great University.”
“As I explained to the members of the HKU family I had the privilege of meeting today, I will do my utmost, together with the University community, to take the University to new heights.”
“HKU is an established, comprehensive research-intensive university with an international reputation and major strengths that must be cherished and nurtured.”
“I am confident that I can lead HKU to ever greater contributions to education, research, leadership and public engagement in the region and on the global stage, and I look forward to working closely with the HKU community to achieve these goals together,” said Professor Mathieson.
The current Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui said: “It has been a privilege for me to serve as Vice-Chancellor for the past decade.”
“My warmest congratulations to Professor Mathieson on his appointment. I wish him all the best in his Vice-Chancellorship and I look forward to seeing HKU go from strength to strength under his leadership,” said Professor Tsui.
The appointment marks the completion of a two-year consultation, global search and selection exercise for a suitable candidate to lead the University.
In November 2011, the University Council established an Ad Hoc Group to consult staff, students, alumni and other stakeholders on the processes and criteria for the search and selection exercise.
Its recommendations were accepted by the University Council in March 2012, which included a two-stage search and selection mechanism, comprising a Search Committee and a Selection Committee. 
The role of the Search Committee was to source the best qualified candidates, conduct preliminary discussions and meetings with them, and submit a search report to the Selection Committee. 
The role of the Selection Committee was to review and assess the suitability of candidates presented by the Search Committee, interview the candidates, and agree on a finalist for recommendation to the Council, after consultation with the Senate, for deliberation and appointment. The Selection Committee comprised 11 members, nine of which were elected from among staff, students, alumni and Council members. 
For media enquiries, please contact  Ms Trinni Choy (Assistant Director (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2606 email: pychoy@hku.hk  or Ms Melanie Wan (Senior Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2859 2600 email: melwkwan@hku.hk  or Ms Rhea Leung (Manager (Media), Communications and Public Affairs Office) tel: 2857 8555 email: rhea.leung@hku.hk  .

(From left) Group photo of the HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui , Professor Peter Mathieson, HKUSU President Laurence Tang and HKU Council Chairman Dr. the Hon. Leong Che-hung.

Professor Peter Mathieson meets with HKU students, staff, alumni, the University Senate and the University Council to articulate his vision for the University.



HKU Council Chairman Dr. the Hon. Leong Che-hung said that Professor Peter Mathieson meets the selection criteria adopted by the Council and he is delighted with the appointment of Professor Mathieson as the 15th Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong.

HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui expresses his warmest congratulations to Professor Peter Mathieson on his appointment.


