[title]HKU Goes Global -- 10% Rise in Outgoing Exchange Students, to 28 Countries[/title]
[date]13 Nov 2008[/date]
 
The global networks of students of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) are ever expanding. From next academic year onwards, HKU students will be able to go for exchange studies in three more countries - Chile, South Africa and Israel, adding the total number of destination-nations around the world to 28.
More Latin American countries such as Argentina would also likely be included in HKU's Worldwide Undergraduate Student Exchange Programme in the near future.
In 2007/08, some 800 HKU students had the opportunities to study abroad, an increase of 10% over that of the previous year. There were over 750 students from various countries on reciprocal exchange in HKU campus in the year. At present, HKU students can go for credit-bearing exchange studies with over 180 partner institutions in 25 countries.
The students can also participate in a wide spectrum of international exposure activities of varied nature, such as hundreds of internships or voluntary services with overseas governments, non-governmental organizations or corporations, and numerous study trips and international conferences.
Aiming to nurture young global leaders with wide vision, HKU endeavours to provide every full-time undergraduate student with at least one overseas exposure opportunity in their study at the University in the future. The incorporation of experiential learning is one of the key components of the University's new 4-year undergraduate curriculum.
HKU launches this year's Study Abroad Fair on campus today (November 13) to facilitate students to choose their exchange destinations. Throughout the week-long Fair, incoming exchange students and returning students will share their experience abroad with their local peers.
There are 14 booths run by over 100 international students from 20 countries, who share information about the culture and learning life of their mother countries with local students. Many international students also serve traditional food and drinks in their traditional costumes. They also stage, together with HKU teachers and staff, public performances like singing, dancing and live band shows.
For enquiries please contact Manager (Media) Ms Denise Wong (Tel: 2859 2600 / E-mail: denise.wong@hku.hk)
