[title]The University of Hong Kong MBA Students to Study at London Business School[/title]
[date]10 Jan 2005[/date]
 
Under a new collaborative agreement, MBA students from The University of Hong Kong will be able to take part of their studies at London Business School in the United Kingdom, rated among the top ten institutions in the world and known for its specialization in international business, e-commerce, entrepreneurship and finance.
Commenting on the partnership with London Business School, Professor Richard Wong, Acting Dean of the Faculty of Business and Economics of HKU, said: "The University of Hong Kong has always worked towards the goal of preparing its business students for the challenges of a working environment that is constantly re-shaped by the dynamics of a global marketplace."He added: "Building on our strong presence in Hong Kong, the University started some six years ago in partnership with Fudan University in Shanghai to develop a highly successful MBA programme and this new agreement allows us to expand the network of collaboration even further."
The collaborative agreement signed today by Professor Wong and Professor Laura D Tyson, Dean of London Business School, will enable up to 60 HKU students to attend London Business School from 2007 for up to ten weeks to study electives as part of their MBA course. The class will come from the new MBA programme to be offered by HKU.
After completing the core courses at HKU, students will travel to London to study with London Business School's own MBA students and participate in other activities that would further integrate them into the student life at the School.Graduates from the programme will be given alumni status by both HKU and London Business School.
Professor Lap-Chee Tsui, Vice-Chancellor of HKU, expressed his delight at the collaboration at the signing ceremony."With London Business School being such a distinguished institution, our students broaden their knowledge and gain valuable experience from a more diverse and international curriculum," he said.
Professor Tyson said the agreement demonstrated the strong relationship between the schools, and recognised the importance of China and its vibrant economy. " The presence of Hong Kong University students at London Business School will bring a deeper and richer understanding of China and the Chinese economy to our whole community,"she said.
According to Professor Tyson, London Business School's vision is to be the pre-eminent global business school, nurturing talent and advancing knowledge in a multinational learning environment "This agreement with HKU marks the beginning of our true engagement with China - the world's largest emerging market," Professor Tyson added.
Dr Victor Fung, Chairman of the Council at HKU, lauded the collaboration as another step taken by HKU in developing into a world-class university. He said: "A world-class university must be truly international and its students must traverse and transcend national and cultural borders". "The mobility and versatility that come with it would enable them to function and lead in the international arena," concluded Dr Fung.
London Business School's involvement with the region also benefits from a strong Global Advisory Board in Asia – including members such as Ingrid Kwok of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited, Augustine Chow of Harmony Asset Limited, Eric Li of Li Tang Chen &amp; Co. and Charles Chau of Music Television Asia – all residents of Hong Kong. The board helps advance the profile and interests of the School in Asia.
Notes for Editors
London Business School's Vision is to be the pre-eminent global business school, nurturing talent and advancing knowledge in a multi-national, multi-cultural environment. Founded in 1965, the School graduated over 800 MBAs, Executive MBAs, Masters in Finance, Sloan Fellows and PhDs from over 70 countries last year. The School's executive education department serves 6,000 executives and 60 corporate clients on its programmes every year. London Business School is based in the most accessible and international city in the world and is one of only two business schools in the UK to be awarded a six-star (6) rating by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), confirming the School as a centre of world-class research in business and management.
London Business School will host an information forum about its programmes at the Mandarin Hotel in Hong Kong on January 26. 
For more information about London Business School contact:
Kerry Taylor
kerrytaylor@london.edu
+44 (0)20 7706 6972
The Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong, aims to establish a prominent regional and international presence by training future leaders who make a difference and to pioneer research that address global challenges and significant issues in the Asia-Pacific region.In addition to the MBA programme delivered in both Hong Kong and Shanghai, it offers a broad-based undergraduate education in business and economics, as well as a Ph.D., a Master of Finance and a Master of Economics programme.A premier provider of business education, the Faculty was ranked in 2004 as the top MBA school in the Asia-Pacific region by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), an affiliate of the Economist.
An information session on HKU's MBA programme will be held on 11 January 2005 at its Town Centre at Admiralty Centre, Queensway, Hong Kong.
For further information please contact:
Miss Mandy Chan
mandychan@fbe.hku.hk
 (852)2241 5800
 
