[title]Yip Shiu Tak’s Cantonese Opera Manuscripts (in Chinese and English) New Publication[/title]
[date]12 Dec 2013[/date]
 
Ever since Cantonese Opera was inscribed onto UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2009, it has gradually picked up a larger audience from diverse geographical and cultural backgrounds. Translating Cantonese opera into English provides reference for foreigners, which fosters the internationalization of Cantonese opera as well as attracts visitors and English-speaking locals for promoting cultural tourism in Hong Kong. Academically, the English translations serve as the reference materials for teaching the topics about Cantonese opera in tertiary institutions (including overseas institutions), which upgrades the academic standing of Cantonese opera.
Since 2006, the Centre for Advancement of Chinese Language Education and Research (CACLER) of the Faculty of Education, the University of Hong Kong (HKU), has been working together with partnering schools, under the HKU Cantonese Opera Education and Research Project, to integrate Cantonese opera into the secondary school curriculum and on related researches. Mr. Yip Shiu Tak is a Cantonese opera playwright in Hong Kong and his works are the assets of local Cantonese opera. In 2009, the Cantonese Opera Development Fund funded the research team led by Dr. Dorothy Ng, Assistant Professor of the Faculty, to implement the Translation and Bilingual (Chinese and English) Publication Project of Yip Shiu Tak’s Cantonese Opera Manuscripts. The publication contains Island of Farewell, Zhu Bian Returns to Court, Fifteen Strings of Cash, Farewell My Concubine, and Li The Later Ruler, with English translation by veteran translators. It also includes the research data and appreciation guidance of the five operas, which makes the publication a valuable literature for the study of Cantonese opera.
In the press briefing, Dr. Dorothy Ng and Mr. Rupert Chan, a veteran translator introduced the project and the publication. Mr. Frankie Yeung, the Chairman of Cantonese Opera Development Fund Advisory Committee gave an address. The hard copy will be available for schools and education parties as reference for free. The digital version will also be accessible at the website of Leisure and Cultural Services Department (http://www.lcsd.gov.hk/CE/CulturalService/Programme/tc/misc/program_90.html) for the public, and for the Cantonese opera troupes to adapt as subtitles for performances.
Besides, for the sake of knowledge exchange, Parents Sharing on Children Cantonese Opera will be arranged with the book launch on the 4/F, Ming Wah Complex from 2pm to 4 pm on December 14, 2013. Sing Fai Children Cantonese Troupe will perform Farewell My Concubine, and the troupe leader together with the children performers and their parents will share their experience with the audience.
For media enquiries, please contact Mr. K K Choi, Project Manager (Mobile: 9123 5941 / E-mail: kaikwong@gmail.com ) or Ms Queenie Wong, Senior Manager (Development and Communications), Faculty of Education, HKU (Tel: 2219 4270 / Mobile: 9220 5840 / E-mail: qlpwong@hku.hk). Please visit http://web.edu.hku.hk/media.php to view the e-version of the press release. The photo can be downloaded at http://web.edu.hku.hk/press/20131212/ .

Mr. Frankie Yeung, the Chairman of Cantonese Opera Development Fund Advisory Committee (left); Dr Dorothy Ng, Assistant Professor, Faculty of Education, HKU (middle) and Mr. Rupert Chan, a veteran translator (right)


