[title]HKU's Faculty of Engineering to stage Exhibition on Engineering Research[/title]
[date]14 Apr 2004[/date]
 
The Faculty of Engineering of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) will display more than 40 engineering research projects at the Exhibition on Engineering Research to be held on April 16, 2004 (Friday) at the Loke Yew Hall, HKU.
Carrying the theme "Advancing the Frontiers of Technologies", research work in four major research groupings, namely Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Systems, Information Technology, Biomedical Engineering, and Nanotechnology, will be showcased.
According to Professor Ng Tung-sang, Dean of HKU's Faculty of Engineering, the Exhibition is expected to attract academics, industrial leaders, entrepreneurs, and R&amp;D practitioners who are interested in the latest developments of technologies on various fronts. This Exhibition aims at promoting awareness of the technologies developed by the Faculty as well as their applications among its target audience. The occasion will render an excellent platform for the visitors and the researchers to meet one another on networking and collaboration opportunities. 
Professor Ng said, "Over the past 93 years, the Faculty of Engineering has made great strides towards enhancing our research capability and building a stimulating research environment for our staff and students. Our top-notch researchers have received strong boost from the Government and industry for their hi-tech projects, and have developed expertise and technologies relevant to the sustainable development of the economy and the community at large."
"In our Faculty Development Plan for the period 2003 to 2006, one of our strategic objectives is to engage in innovative, high impact research within and across disciplines and to contribute to society needs through applied research. Our focus is on research and development that can elevate the quality of life and create wealth," Professor Ng added.
The Opening Ceremony of the Exhibition will be officiated by Mr. Anthony S.K. Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology, Professor Lee Chack-fan, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of HKU, and Professor Ng Tung-sang. 
Members of the public are welcome to the Exhibition. The Exhibition will be opened from 10:00a.m. to 6:00p.m. For further information, please contact HKU's Faculty of Engineering Office at tel: 2859-2803.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are invited to attend and cover the Opening Ceremony and the Exhibition on Engineering Research:
Opening Ceremony
Date: April 16, 2004 (Friday)
Time: 10:00a.m.
Venue: Convocation Room, Room 218, Main Building, HKU
Guest of Honour: Mr. Anthony S.K. Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology Exhibition on Engineering Research
At the Loke Yew Hall, Main Building, HKU, following the Opening Ceremony.
Press Contact: Ms. Eunice Chan,Executive Officer, Faculty of Engineering, HKU (Tel: 2857-8259 )
 
