[title]The Honorable Mrs. Anson Chan Keynotes Leadership Lecture Series "Hong Kong: Past, Present and Future"[/title]
[date]12 Aug 2004[/date]
 
The Honorable Mrs. Anson Chan presented her vision of Hong Kong in the keynote address of the 2004 Leadership Lecture Series of the Tufts Institute for Leadership and International Perspective today (August 12) at the University of Hong Kong.
The Institute is a collaborative effort of the Tufts University, The University of Hong Kong, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and Peking University to educate and prepare the next generation of young leaders in this exciting period of globalization.It is an effort to foster cross-cultural team building through intensive, intellectual inquiry and practical study with dynamic companies, organizations and individuals.
This year, 22 students from the four collaborating universities were selected to participate on the basis of demonstrated leadership potential, excellent academic and practice-based learning abilities, outstanding communication skills, and an interest in the Pacific Rim and the United States.
During the summer, they are spending seven weeks in Hong Kong working at a variety of companies and organizations in the private and public sectors.One student from Tufts University is paired with a student from one of the other participating universities and together they will be working on a significant business challenge.
The Honorable Mrs. Anson Chan has been an Honorary Director of the Institute since it began in 1998.The Leadership Lecture Series is a flagship of the program that gathers students, the greater community, distinguished practitioners and scholars for intellectual exchanges.
Following their seven weeks in Hong Kong, the students will spend a week in Beijing, visiting companies and cultural sites.Throughout the fall, at their respective universities, they prepare for the culminating international symposium at Tufts University in February 2005.
The Tufts Institute for Leadership and International Perspective is building the skills of future global leaders, stimulating new ideas, and forming partnerships across cultures.
For more information, please visit the web site www.tilip.org.
For further enquiries, please contact Ms. Polo Leung of the External Relations Office, HKU at 2859 2600.
 
