[title]HKU Students meeting the Chief Executive - Aspirations of the Youth for an International City[/title]
[date]04 Sep 2007[/date]
 
The 2007 Policy Address of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), Mr Donald Tsang, will be announced next month.  The General Education Unit of The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and "GO HK GO" organized a seminar titled "Scaling New Heights - Addressing the Chief Executive's Policy" today, for HKU students to meet the Chief Executive, discuss the future development of Hong Kong and discuss their aspirations for the Policy Address.  The seminar was held at Loke Yew Hall, HKU. 
 "Scaling New Heights - Addressing the Chief Executive's Policy" focused on the upcoming Policy Address to be issued in October and explored measures for the further development of Hong Kong. Mr Tsang shared his views with over 600 HKU students, staff and alumni. Guests attending the seminar included the Chairman of the Executive Committee of "GO HK GO", Mr. Tam Yiu Chung, and HKU Vice-Chancellor Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.
Moderating the seminar was Dr Ko Wing Man who is a HKU alumnus and an Executive Committee Member of "GO HK GO".  A wide range of policy issues were explored between the Chief Executive and the 4 HKU student representatives from different departments, as well as with HKU students and alumni in Shanghai, Beijing, London, New York and other overseas cities via video conferencing or long distance calls. In the discussion, the students shared their ideas and concerns for Hong Kong as an international city.  The seminar was conducted in English.
The 4 HKU student representatives explored the opportunities and challenges Hong Kong currently faced with Mr Tsang. The students were Kendrick SHIH Co (Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, Year 4) , Vivien LAU Ching (Faculty of BBA and International Business and Global Management, Year 2) , Cindy GAO Xin (Faculty of Law, Year 4) and John Gregory  SHELLNUTT (Department of Earth Sciences, PhD) respectively.
Dr Albert Chau, HKU Dean of Student Affairs &amp; Director of General Education, said, "HKU aims to provide whole-person education to all of our students. Through our General Education programmes, we hope to broaden their horizons and breadth of knowledge, promote independent thinking and encourage participation in the community.  Today, it was an honour to have Mr Tsang joining us to discuss key issues affecting Hong Kong as a whole. It was a valuable platform for HKU students and alumni around the globe to help promote a sense of responsibility towards Hong Kong and the Country. To inspire new thinking and vision for the future, and to groom leaders for our society, have long been important aspects of HKU's mission, and today's seminar demonstrates our ongoing commitment to these."
Mr Tam Yiu Chung, Chairman of the Executive Committee of "GO HK GO" said, "We are very honoured to have the Chief Executive joining us to share his views with the students today. The younger generations are our future and we believe it is of great importance for them to express their views on the various aspects of society. ‘Scaling New Heights - Addressing The Chief Executive's Policy' provided a valuable opportunity for HKU students to discuss the future directions for Hong Kong's developments with the Chief Executive, thus encouraging them to take responsibility and contribute to the society we call home."
"GO HK GO" Campaign
The "GO HK GO" campaign was organized by a group of eminent people. The Executive Committee consists of the elite of the political, commercial, educational, medical, juridical, public relations, performing arts, and social services sectors. Through their diverse expertise and influence, the enduring "Below the Lion Rock Spirit" of Hong Kong will be fully manifested, motivating passionate support throughout the city. This campaign comprises a series of meaningful and penetrating large-scale events that will last for a year. The Organization features the Chief Executive of the HKSAR, the Honourable Donald Tsang, and the Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in HKSAR, Gao Siren, as Honorary Patrons, with many prominent figures from different social sectors as its Honorary Advisors, and RTHK as the media partner.
"The University of Hong Kong" website: http://www.hku.hk/
#      #      #
For enquiries, please feel free to contact:
"GO HK GO"                                                 The University of Hong Kong
Project Director                                               Director, General Education Unit,
Gary Cheng                                                    Dr Albert Chau 
TEL: 9109 1000                                              TEL: 2859 2306
Voluntary Public Relations Manager                   Senior Manager (Media)
Florence Lai                                                    Cherry Cheung
TEL: 9470 9885                                              TEL: 2859 2606 / 8208 1686
                                                                    Manager (Media)
                                                                    Denise Wong
                                                                    TEL: 2859 2600 / 9842 6002  
Photo Captions:
Picture 1: Four HKU student representatives have dialogue with the Chief Executive Mr Donald Tsang. From left to right are:- Mr Kendrick Co Shih, Miss Gao Xin Cindy, Miss Lau Ching Vivien and Mr Shellnutt John Gregory. On the right is Dr Ko Wing-man, moderator and HKU alumnus.
Picture 2: The Chief Executive Mr Donald Tsang has a lively dialogue with the young generation.
Picture 3: Over 700 HKU students participated in the "Addressing the Chief Executive's Policy" Forum. There were also HKU students in preparatory study at Tsinghua University (Beijing) &amp; Fudan University (Shanghai), and exchange students in overseas taking part via live broadcasting.


 
Picture 1
 
Picture 2
 
Picture 3



