
[date]2003.10.07[/date]
[title]PolyU receives $30m boost from ITF[/title]
In the April tranche of Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) applications, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) took pride in receiving more than $30 million for its six innovative projects ?the highest amount received by the University in a single application exercise.  Dr. Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), said the latest funding was recognition of the University? leading role in applied research and trade-institution partnership.  ?t also reiterates our belief that the future of Hong Kong lies on the success of technology transfer and product commercialization,?he said.Six out of 10 PolyU submitted projects were awarded ITF in the April tranche of applications, summing up to a total of $30,441,478.  The largest amount went to Prof. K.L. Yung of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, who will lead a project in developing a series of miniaturized micro-injection moulding machines for bioengineering and electronics industries.  Over $11.8 million will be injected by ITF from now till Oct 2006 for this single project.  With an aim of putting academic research to industrial application, all PolyU projects will help bring advancement and breakthrough for local industries, including development of innovative apparel products and technologies for textiles and clothing industry, enhancement of motion processing skills for multimedia animation as well as application of ?at Ears?echo location ability for the vision-impaired people (see appendix for more project details).Early this year, two PolyU Professors, Choy Chung-loong and Helen Chan of the Department of Applied Physics, were among the first local scientists to be honoured with the highly coveted State Technological Invention Award by the State Council with a project funded by ITF.  AppendixPolyU projects funded by ITF (for April tranche 2003)Project title:	Development of Miniaturized Micro/ Nano-injection Moulding MachinesAbstract:	Capitalizing on techniques derived from the PolyU-invented Mars Rock Corer, the project aims to develop a series of miniaturized micro-injection moulding machines for micro size products in areas such as bioengineering and electronics.  Currently no other commercially available machines have the ability to make products of such size and accuracy.Project schedule:	October 2003 ?October 2006Funding amount: 	HK$11,830,000Principal investigator:	Prof. K.L. Yung, ProfessorDepartment of Industrial and Systems EngineeringContact	2766 6592Project title:	Advanced Printed Circuit Board (PCB) Material Using Nano-composite as Filler Abstract:	In answer to the increasing need for a high-performance PCB material, this project will conduct an in-depth study on PCB material by making use of nano-particles in the process.  Deliverables of the project will shed light on the performance and characterization of the advanced material and bring long-term benefits to the PCB and electronic industries.  Project schedule:	December 2003 ?March 2005Funding amount: 	HK$2,352,000Principal investigator:	Dr Winco Yung, Associate Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems EngineeringTel: 2766 6599Project title:	Development of Smart Thermal Functional Apparel TechnologiesAbstract:	Based on PolyU? innovations on phase change materials (PCM) microcapsules - of which five have filed patents in the US, this project will further study the functional performance of PCM.  It aims to deliver a full set of technology innovations for the design and creation of smart thermal functional textiles and apparel using PCM microcapsules.Project schedule:	December 2003 ?November 2006Funding amount: 	HK$6,327,000Principal investigator:	Dr Li Yi, Associate Professor, Institute of Textiles and ClothingTel: 2766 6479Project title:	Development of Innovative Apparel Products and Evaluation TechnologiesAbstract:	Taking advantage of PolyU? research on apparel product evaluation technologies like the world? first sweating manikin ?alter?and the soft mannequin for ladies?foundation wear, this project will transfer the existing technologies ?both hardware and software ?to Hong Kong made apparel products.Project schedule:	November 2003 ?April 2006Funding amount: 	HK$5,968,800Principal investigator:	Dr Fan Jintu, Associate Professor,Institute of Textiles and ClothingTel: 2766 6472Project title:	Electronic "Bat Ears" for the Vision-impairedAbstract:	Learning from bats which use echoed ultrasound to locate objects, this project aims to evaluate the recently developed and patented ?ltrasonic Echo Navigator for visual-impaired persons?technology.  By using the vision-impaired people as subjects, the project aims to find out the best parameters for the emitting and receiving transducers and circuit and eventually leads the invention to commercial product.Project schedule:	October 2003 ?March 2005Funding amount: 	HK$1,607,534Principal investigator:	Dr He Jufang, Assistant Professor, Department of Rehabilitation SciencesTel: 2766 6741Project title:	Motion Editing and Synthesis Toolkit for Video Game and AnimationAbstract:	This project aims to develop a set of motion-manipulation tools, including motion-editing, transformation and novel movement generation for speeding up motion data acquisition.  Its findings will help support advancement of local video game, film and TV animation industries.Project schedule:	September 2003 ?December 2005Funding amount: 	HK$ 2,356,144Principal investigator:	Dr Geng Weidong, LecturerMultimedia Innovation CentreTel: 2766 4707
