
[date]2004.06.28[/date]
[title]PolyU SPEED invites applications for professional education programmes[/title]
A wide array of programmes offered by the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), starting from July 2004, is now open for applications.
In the new academic year 2004/05, a total of 38 award-bearing programmes leading to awards of PolyU-SPEED and overseas universities will be offered. To provide more education opportunities for sub-degree graduates, the School will expand its top-up degree programmes in the new academic year. Apart from the existing Bachelor of Arts in Applied and Media Arts, Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management, the School will introduce a new degree programme in Housing Management in September 2004. Students who take the full-time mode may complete the degree within one and a half years.
SPEED will also collaborate with two renowned overseas universities to introduce three new top-up degree programmes. They are: Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Business Management and Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Computing from the Northumbria University of the U.K.; Bachelor of Business Studies in Finance or Financial Economics from the Massey University of New Zealand. Students of the Massey University can also opt for the Honours route by taking four more modules.
Dr Anthony Tam, Director of SPEED, said, 'It is one of our initiatives to provide opportunities for Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates who wish to pursue higher qualification for career advancement, and to enhance the variety of programmes available for learners with different needs.'
In addition, some 220 courses will be offered with a wide selection, many of which offered under the Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) have been included in the list of 'reimbursable courses' under the Continuing Education Fund. They cover areas such as business services, creative industries, design, financial services, logistics and supply chain management, language and tourism. Since 2000, over 5,000 learners have registered under CAM. Two brand new part-time programmes on offer include Diploma Scheme in Apparel Studies and Certificate in Financial Planning. The Diploma Scheme is a distance-learning programme to be offered in the Chinese Mainland and Malaysia.
Copies of the Prospectus providing detailed information on SPEED's programmes can be collected at SPEED office, Room QR802 (8th Floor), Core R, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon. Limited copies are also obtainable from District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
Opening hours of SPEED are:
Mondays to Fridays: 8.30 a.m. ' 7.00 p.m.
Saturdays: 9.00 a.m. ' 12.00 noon
Sundays and Public Holidays: Closed
Enquiry: 3400 2828
