
[date]2003.10.28[/date]
[title]Tourism Ambassador Jackie Chan meets PolyU students[/title]
At the invitation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University(PolyU)'s School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM), international movie star and Hong Kong Tourism Ambassador Dr Jackie Chan yesterday (28 October) shared his experience of promoting Hong Kong to PolyU students at the on-campus Jockey Club Auditorium.
According to Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of HTM, this event was staged to mark the beginning of the School's Distinguished Lecture Series. "We are most honoured to have Jackie Chan to kick off this new initiative," he said.  "Jackie does a great job in motivating our students by sharing his personal view of life, his way of striving for excellence and how we can work together in time of difficulty."
He also disclosed said that HTM will invite hospitality gurus and leading industry leaders to share their insights with PolyU students, enabling them to broaden their horizon and to keep abreast of the latest development in the industry.
The talk has drawn hundreds of PolyU students and was kicked off by a welcoming address by PolyU Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang. During the function, Jackie also received a commemorative certificate from PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, and a souvenir from Prof Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business.
Jackie has been appointed as HK's official Tourism Ambassador since 1995. Over the years, he has taken part in various large-scale activities to promote the image of Hong Kong. In the recent global tourism revival campaign organised by Hong Kong Tourism Board, Jackie has played host in television commercial to invite visitors around the world to travel to the territory.
Apart from receiving many prestigious awards from the film industry, Jackie's honours include the 1986 Hong Kong Outstanding Young Person's Award, the 1988 International Outstanding Young Person's Award, and an MBE in 1989. In 1992, he was honoured for being the Most Outstanding Young Chinese in the World, and voted the Healthiest Person in Hong Kong. He was conferred the honorary degree of the Doctor of Social Science by the Hong Kong Baptist University in 1996.
