
[date]2004.06.19[/date]
[title]PolyU takes lead in joining National University Science and Technology Park[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University has become the first local tertiary institution to set up research centres and training facilities at the National University Science and Technology Park of the Virtual University Park in Shenzhen.
A collaborative agreement was signed by PolyU and the Shenzhen Hi-Tech Industrial Park yesterday (19 June). This new collaboration will allow PolyU to establish an even stronger presence on the mainland.
The signing ceremony was officiated at by Mr Li Hongzhong, Mayor of Shenzhen Municipal People's Government; Mr Lin Bo, Vice Director General of Administrative Office of Shenzhen Hi-Tech Industrial Park; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development).
Delighted with this latest development, Prof. Poon said: 'Today, both public and private sectors in Hong Kong are strengthing their ties with the mainland in various areas. This collaborative agreement will facilitate our University to more effectively promote technology transfer and human resources development in the mainland, so as to create a win-win situation for both Hong Kong and our motherland.'
According to the collaborative agreement, PolyU will establish research centres and laboratories in the National University Science and Technology Park to promote research commercialization and technology transfer. The Administrative Office of Shenzhen Hi-Tech Industrial Park will provide policy, administrative and infrastructural supports in the regional and national level.
After becoming a member of the Shenzhen Virtual University Park in 2000, PolyU established its Shenzhen Research Institute in Shenzhen in the following year. Under the leadership of Dr Lui Sun-wing, the Institute boosts PolyU's research and professional services in collaboration with mainland scientists and researchers covering a wide range of areas such as executive development, accounting, Chinese medicine and multimedia.
In January 2002, the Shenzhen Municipal Government designated PolyU's Shenzhen-based Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine as a key laboratory specialising in traditional Chinese medicine products and related pharmacology. The Institute is operated under the aegis of PolyU's Shenzhen Research Institute, and the Shenzhen Municipal Government has provided a RMB$2m grant to PolyU's subsidiary Pearl Modern Medicine Development Ltd to support this major development as one of the city's key laboratories. 
On the human resources development front, PolyU is now the leader among universities in Hong Kong and overseas offering 15 prorgrammes on the mainland, ranging from first-degree to doctorate levels, all approved by the Chinese State Council's Academic Degree Committee.
Led by Shenzhen Mayor Mr Li Hongzhong, the Shenzhen delegation paid a visit to PolyU during his first official visit to Hong Kong at the invitation of the HKSAR Government. Other members of the Shenzhen Municipal Government delegation included Executive Vice-mayor Xu Zongheng and vice-mayors Zhuo Qinrui and Liu Yingli.
