
[date]2004.01.15[/date]
[title]PolyU launches new series of professional and continuing education courses[/title]
A wide variety of programmes and courses to be offered by the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from January to June 2004 are now open for application.
In the latest 2003/04 academic year, the School has launched new Bachelor's degree programmes in Applied and Media Arts, Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management. These programmes provide ideal opportunities for Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates to pursue better qualifications for career advancement. Well received by the public, a total of 297 full-time and part-time students have already been admitted to these programmes. In the coming academic year, one more new programme in Housing Management will be launched to meet market needs. In addition, the School will introduce a Certificate in Financial Planning programme in view of the growing demand for financial planning professionals.
Meanwhile, SPEED will continue to expand the highly flexible Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) for people who wish to have maximum control over their studies. This year, SPEED will focus on helping Associate Degree and Higher Diploma holders to pursue a Bachelor's Degree under CAM. By way of credit transfer under which up to 50% of the credits may be transferred based on a sub-degree, students may gain a headstart in pursuing a degree qualification. To provide students with more guidance on subject selection, individualized study patterns have been designed, under which students may choose to concentrate on six subject areas.
To further expand the range of continuing education programmes on offer, Dr Anthony Tam, Director of SPEED, said, 'We believe that lifelong learning is the key to maintaining the overall competitiveness of our society, and it is our mission to open up more learning opportunities for mature learners. With this in mind, we have developed a roadmap of lifelong learning to guide learners in choosing a path of study that could cater for their varied needs and interests.?br&gt;
For a copy of SPEED's prospectus, the public can visit its office at PolyU or any District Office, public library and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
For more details, please contact the representative of SPEED through:
Address: 
Room QR802, 8/F Shirley Chan Building (Core R), PolyU
Tel: 
3400 2828
Fax: 
2363 0540
Email: 
speed@polyu.edu.hk
Website: 
www.speed.polyu.edu.hk
