
[date]2004.07.08[/date]
[title]PolyU's fashion archive and fabric library goes online[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing has recently introduced two new online references, namely the Fabric Library and the Fashion Archive, in its affiliated portal site www.apparelkey.com
This unique knowledge portal was set up by a team of dedicated PolyU researchers, with initial support from the Innovation and Technology Fund, to cater for sharing of knowledge and the development of apparel and textile industry. These researchers are Prof. Edward Newton, Dr Fan Jintu, Dr Roger Ng, Dr Jane Chung, Dr Calvin Wong, Dr Sarah Leung, Dr Frankie Ng and Ms Lydia Fung.
The website's new feature Fashion Archive provides fashion knowledge in pictorial context and vivid images of various fashion brand names in different eras. The rich content of its image database not only provides inspiration for design education, but also serves as an useful reference for the fashion and apparel industry.
Another new feature, the online Fabric Library, covers essential information on traditional and 'smart' fabrics from textile industry around the world, with classification of fabrics information by types and in different catalogues for easy searching.
The portal site also lists eight directories of information on different important aspects of the apparel business, covering areas such as design, clothing materials, production development, manufacturing, management, mechandising and trouble-shooting methods, etc.
Since its launch in 2000, the website has become an important online reference for the global apparel industry. It has attracted more than 40 corporate members and over 1,000 individual members and recorded 100,000 hit counts during the past year.
The website provides three types of memberships for corporate and individual members. For further enquiries, please contact Ms Lydia Fung, Project Manager of the website, on 2766 4573 or via email : tclydia@inet.polyu.edu.hk.
