
[date]2004.05.07[/date]
[title]PolyU names tele-rehabilitation centre after Dr &amp; Mrs Lui Che-woo[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (7 May) named the tele-rehabilitation centre on its campus after philanthropists Dr and Mrs Lui Che-woo in recognition of their generous support for the University.
The naming ceremony was officiated at by Dr Lui Che-woo, Mrs Lui Chiu Kam-ping, Mr Roy Chung, PolyU Deputy Chairman of Council, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
During the ceremony, Prof. Poon thanked Dr and Mrs Lui for their longstanding support for PolyU and their recent donation which had come at a time of need. "We feel honoured to have been chosen as a recipient of Dr and Mrs Lui's benefaction. Let me assure you all that our University will repay their kindness by grooming the kind of talent that will contribute toward the well-being and positive growth of the SAR and our nation."
Dr and Mrs Lui said they were impressed by PolyU's contribution as the sole provider of tertiary education in occupational therapy and physiotherapy in the territory. That explains why they support the University in providing innovative rehabilitation services for Hong Kong people and the needy.
Dr and Mrs Lui Che-woo have always been supporters of medical services and education in Hong Kong and the mainland. Dr Lui is well known as Chairman of the K. Wah Group in Hong Kong which encompasses K. Wah International Holdings Limited, K. Wah Construction Materials Limited, K. Wah Properties (Holdings) Limited and Stanford Hotels International. He has held many public offices in the past decades, such as serving as a member of the Ninth National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Despite his busy schedule, Dr Lui has been serving as a Founding Court Member of PolyU since 1995. He is also an ardent supporter of professional training for the hotel industry in Hong Kong.
Located in the Rehabilitation Clinic run by PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, the Dr &amp; Mrs Lui Che Woo Tele-rehabilitation Centre will pioneer the provision of tele-rehabilitation services in Hong Kong. Equipped with advanced infrastructure, clients can receive rehabilitation service anytime and anywhere as needed, such as in hospitals, rehabilitation centres, nursing home or their own home environment. The facility thus improves accessibility, reduces travel and circumvents the problems faced by mobility-impaired patients.
The Centre will provide both on-site and tele- fall-prevention classes and cognitive rehabilitation services, together with pre- and post- intervention assessments in the initial stage. These services are expected to be further extended to include on-site and tele- arthritic and stroke rehabilitation.
