
[date]2004.02.17[/date]
[title]Fulbright China Research Forum a draw for experts in China studies[/title]
More than 50 American scholars and postgraduate students with a shared interest in researching on the Chinese mainland, Taiwan and Hong Kong recently attended the Fulbright China Research Forum (FCRF) 2004 at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Sponsored by the American Embassy in Beijing, the Foundation for Scholarly Exchange in Taiwan and the US Consulate General in Hong Kong, the four-day Forum was co-organized by the Hong Kong'America Center and PolyU. This annual event, which opened on 2 February this year, was held for the third time in Hong Kong, with a one-day Fulbright Seminar held at the University of Macau.
The six major topics covered in this year's Forum are: Political Economy and Social Change in China; China's Cities and City Life; Health and Society in China; Classical Chinese Studies; Modern Chinese Literature and Language; and Studies of Chinese Film and Music.
The Forum was kicked off with an address by President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, a Distinguished Fulbright Scholar for the year 2002-03. A group of PolyU scholars also shared their experience in doing research in China in the opening session. They are:
Ms Lau Pui-king, Associate Professor, School of Accounting and Finance 
Prof. Angela Yuen Tsang Woon-ki, Head and Professor, Department of Applied Social Sciences 
Dr Ben Ku Hok-bun, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Social Sciences 
Dr Tim Shi Ding-xu, Associate Professor, Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies 
Dr Samantha Pang Mei-che, Associate Professor, School of Nursing and former Fulbrighter (2002-03).
The first FCRF was hosted by the CUHK and the second by the David C. Lam Institute at Hong Kong Baptist University last year.
The prestigious world-wide Fulbright Program, created by the US Congress in 1946, aims to increase mutual understanding between the people of the US and other countries through the exchange of persons, knowledge, and skills.
Since 2002-03, the Research Grants Council of the HKSAR and the Fulbright Program created the outbound Fulbright Hong Kong Scholar Program to enable promising Hong Kong scholars to do advanced research at American universities and institutes in the arts, humanities and social sciences. Apart from Dr Samantha Pang, Dr Michael Siu Kin-wai, Assistant Professor of PolyU's School of Design, was among the first cohort of the four winners of research awards under this program in 2002-03 who have returned from the US.
In addition, the Hong Kong Distinguished Lecturers Program invited senior scholars and prominent professionals to the US to speak about emerging themes for Hong Kong and its position in the broader Asian region. For details on the Fulbright Program, see http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/hkac/exchange/hk2us/fulbright/fhksp_overview.htm
