
[date]2003.12.23[/date]
[title]PolyU and Chinese Academy of  Sciences launch software engineering lab and double Masters degree programme[/title]
A software engineering laboratory has been inaugurated in parallel at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and in the prestigious Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) in Beijing. At the same time, a first-of-its-kind double Masters degree programme in software engineering will be on offer both in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland, thanks to a partnership between PolyU and CAS.
A ceremony marking these two developments was held at PolyU yesterday (23 December), during which cooperation agreements were signed by CAS Vice President and President of the Graduate School of CAS Dr Bai Chunli; Executive Vice President of the Graduate School of CAS Dr Gao Wen; PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and Vice President Prof. Philip Yeung. In addition, an introduction on the new lab and programme was given by Dr Li Mingshu, Director of CAS's Institute of Software (ISCAS), and Prof. Keith Chan Chun-chung, Head of PolyU's Department of Computing.
Prof. Poon remarked: "The partnership between CAS and PolyU in establishing the new 'ISCAS'PolyU Joint Software Engineering Laboratory' will contribute toward the setting of industrial standards and benchmarks for improvements in both Hong Kong and the mainland. The facility will serve as a software engineering resources centre and promote knowledge and technology transfer, so as to help industry develop competitively-priced software that is in hot demand."
According to the Central Government's statistics, there are currently 150,000 job openings in the mainland's software industry, and the figure is expected to rise sharply in the coming few years. Prof. Poon said there were both a fast-growing domestic demand for software as well as the need to enhance strengthen the export of software from the mainland, given the fierce competition from countries like India and Israel.
Prof. Poon added, "The training of qualified software engineers has already been designated as a key task for mainland authorities. To help meet such huge demand for computing professionals and advance the development of software industry in Hong Kong and the mainland, the Graduate School of CAS and PolyU are thus jointly offering for the first time a double Masters degree course in computing."
Targeted for commencement in 2004, the self-financed, Web-enabled programme will be run by the Hong Kong CyberU of PolyU, and be open for application from both Hong Kong and the mainland. It will build on the success of the existing part-time Master of Science in Software Technology programme hosted by PolyU's Department of Computing and the extremely popular Master in Software Engineering programme taught by experts in CAS's Graduate School.
In fact, PolyU's Department of Computing and ISCAS have been working closely together since five years ago in such areas as student exchange, collaborative projects and publications of research results and textbooks in software engineering.
