
[date]2003.11.13[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes second golf tournament to raise funds on the green[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organize 'PolyU ?Kum Shing Invitation Golf Tournament?on 21 November 2003 to raise funds for the University. This is the second golf tournament held by PolyU. A total of 36 teams have already signed up for the game and over $1 million donation is raised.
A total of 144 people in 36 teams will participate in this tournament. Mrs Olivia Yu, President, Hong Kong Chinese Lady Golfers Association and Hong Kong Lady Professional Golfers Association; representatives from the Hong Kong Super Stars Soccer Team will also join this game.
The Tournament is made possible by a group of PolyU friends and alumni who have agreed to be members of the Organizing Committee. Led by Chairman Mr William Chan, the Organizing Committee consists of Ir Peter K.K. Wong, Group Deputy Chairman &amp; Managing Director of Kum Shing Group and Title Sponsor; Mr Joseph Lo Kin-ching, PolyU Treasurer; Mr Ng Wai-hung, University Court Member. Among the officiating guests is also Mr David Chris Lee Tsung-hei who is a Council Member and trophy sponsor.
Speaking at a press conference held yesterday (13 November), Acting President Mr Alexander Tzang said, 'In view of the changing landscape in the higher education sector, PolyU relies greatly on the support from our friends and partners in the private sector in realizing our worthy vision for the good of the community and students?all-round development.? Mr Alan Tam, Mr Wan Chi-keung and other representatives from the Hong Kong Super Stars Soccer Team also joined the event. During the conference, Alan and other officiating guests also showed their golfing talents on putting to kick off the Tournament.
Apart from promoting friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, a major aim of the Tournament was to raise funds for the University. All proceeds will go to PolyU's Development Fund and Student Development Fund to support the University's long-term development as well as the all-round development of the students.
