
[date]2004.06.29[/date]
[title]PolyU index: Confidence in housing market improving but incentive to buy still weak[/title]
The public's confidence in the local housing market continues to improve, but the incentive to buy is still weak. This is the finding as reflected by the latest 'BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property', announced by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) in June 2004.
On a scale from 0 to 1,000, with 500 meaning neutral, a BRE index of below 500 is deemed negative and positive if over 500. According to PolyU's quarterly survey, the overall BRE Index stood at 603 in June, 47 points up from 556 in the last survey conducted in March 2004, indicating a positive outlook for the residential property market.
Individual Indices for homeowner and non-homeowner groups stood at 620 and 587 respectively. These figures are also higher than they were a quarter earlier. To map the latest BRE index, a total of 1,176 interviews were successfully conducted.
Dr Eddie Hui, Principal Investigator and Associate Professor of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE), said, 'Housing price expectations have continued to rise steadily due to the lower unemployment rate and the recent, rather encouraging public land auction results. It seems that the homeowners' expectations have started to outstrip those of non-owners'.
Respondents expected a moderate increase in housing prices in the short term. These expectations are consistent with the recent housing price inflation. Yet, 45 per cent of homeowners and 56 per cent of non-homeowners considered that current prices were 'somewhat too high' or 'extremely high'. About 77 per cent of respondents overall had no plan to buy a property in the near future.
According to this survey, local economic conditions and family income were cited as the most important factors affecting housing decisions among the respondents. About 70 per cent of the respondents expected that their family income, and 46 per cent thought their job opportunities, would remain unchanged in the next three months. After considering the job prospects, family income and economic conditions, 53 per cent of the respondents also expected that their ability to buy a property would remain unchanged in the next 12 months. Dr Hui said that these rational real estate fundamentals explained in part why their incentive to buy was weak in the current market.
The survey also reveals that after the public land auction held on 15 June 2004―the second auction in 20 months―at which a non-industrial lot was sold at 48 per cent above the opening bid, 12 per cent of homeowners and 16 per cent of non-homeowner expressed that this would lead to 'an upward adjustment' in their expectations.
The BRE Index is established by PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University and the Texas A&amp;M University, USA.
Prof. Francis Wong, Director of RCCREE and Associate Head of BRE, said, 'The BRE Index is a unique resource for studying developmental trends in expected housing prices and the level of public confidence on the residential market. It is a good behavioural and attitudinal indicator of housing consumers'.
To formulate the Index, quarterly surveys have been undertaken since June 2003, with the assistance of Hong Kong Baptist University through telephone interviews with local homeowners and non-homeowners. Each of the two groups was further divided into three cohorts: those considering purchase, conditional purchasers and non-buyers. An overall BRE Index was then compiled. Interview questions were identical in each survey so that comparisons could be made over time and across groups of respondents.
The BRE Index will be released regularly by the RCCREE. Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm.
