
[date]2004.05.25[/date]
[title]PolyU to host first International Vision Rehabilitation Symposium[/title]
About 100 scientists, optometrists, ophthalmologists, physicians, mobility instructors and vision rehabilitation administrators from 11 countries and territories are to attend the first International Vision Rehabilitation Symposium to be held on The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus between 27 and 28 May.
The Symposium, hosted by PolyU, is organized with the purpose of disseminating cutting-edge knowledge in vision rehabilitation. It also provides an important opportunity for low vision clinicians, researchers and administrators to share and exchange their knowledge in their respective areas of professional expertise.
According to Prof. George Woo, PolyU's Chair Professor of Optometry and a world authority in low vision, there are many conditions that can lead to low vision. These include macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, cataract and glaucoma.
He stressed that vision rehabilitation service is essential for those with eye conditions which cannot be treated by medical and surgical means. Vision rehabilitation is to enable these people to use their remaining vision more efficiently and effectively after a thorough and comprehensive assessment.
This event has drawn the participation of scholars from many renowned institutions, including the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Houston in the US, the University of Waterloo in Canada, the Queensland University of Technology in Australia, the University of Auckland in New Zealand; as well as representatives from Retina Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Society for the Blind.
The two-day symposium will cover various topics related to vision rehabilitation, including the management of low vision care, advancement in rehabilitation technology and the clinical and research aspects of vision rehabilitation.
Four PolyU scholars in the fields of optometry and biomedical sciences will also present their latest research findings, including a research paper reviewing the current status of vision rehabilitation education and training in Hong Kong.
In addition, the conference participants will be guided to tour around PolyU's Vision Rehabilitation Clinic, which is well equipped with high-tech devices to help people with visual impairment achieve greater independence.
Located within the University's Optometry Clinic, the facility is equipped with a range of advanced electronic devices for vision rehabilitation. Apart from a high-tech Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope for testing the functioning of the different areas of the eye, there are such useful aids as closed-circuit television, computer magnification software and other computer-assisted devices.
