
[date]2004.01.09[/date]
[title]PolyU holds employer forum to nurture preferred graduates[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held an Employer Forum entitled 'Hong Kong to Scale New Heights"yesterday (9 January). This event is part of the pre-placement training for PolyU students to prepare them for their summer placements under its ‘Preferred Graduate?Development Programme (PGDP).
At the forum, Mr Wang Liao-ping, Director-General, Department of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China, shared with the participants his insights on development on the Chinese mainland since its accession to WTO in 2001 and the signing of CEPA last year. Mr Wang also shed light on the closer link between the mainland and HKSAR, and on how the integration would benefit Hong Kong in scaling new heights in the increasingly competitive market.
PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong also expressed gratitude to all participating partner companies, saying, 'Your ardent support has injected fresh impetus to our Programme and means a lot to our students. With your continuous support, I am pleased to say despite the outbreak of SARS last year, we still managed to secure close to 500 local placements in 2003, representing a 18 per cent year-on-year increase.?br&gt;
Launched in 1997, PGDP aims to enhance students?market value by providing them on-job working experience before graduation. With the support of over 750 partner companies and supporting organizations from the Chinese mainland, other Asian countries, North America, Europe and Australia, more than 3,700 PolyU students have benefited from the Programme. Some of them have become permanent employees of their hosting companies upon graduation.
The PolyU interns come from a wide range of academic disciplines, from accountancy to civil engineering, design, textiles and clothing, hotel and tourism management, nursing and optometry. They are sent to work in various local and overseas enterprises and multinational companies. 
Under PGDP agreements, PolyU provides partner companies each year with an agreed number of students in specific disciplines for placement over summer. Based on the requirements of the companies, PolyU conducts a screening exercise among its full-time, non final-year undergraduate students to select suitable trainees for the partner companies. 
