
[date]2004.03.11[/date]
[title]PolyU graduates most preferred by employers[/title]
Graduates of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are the most ‘preferred?by employers, with the highest ratings on practical value among local graduates, according to the findings of a recent independent survey.
PolyU's application-oriented programmes also prove to be extremely useful in helping students to secure jobs upon graduation.
These findings were revealed by PolyU's Acting President Mr Alexander Tzang at the opening ceremony of the University's Careers Exhibition held yesterday (11 March).
As a way to gauge the university's image in the eyes of public-in particular among employers, secondary school principals, teachers, students and their parents, community leaders, government officials, PolyU alumni, staff and students-an independent agency was commissioned by PolyU to conduct an image identity survey among close to 700 respondents in late 2003.
Similar to the results of the surveys conducted in 1994 and 1999, PolyU was found to have produced graduates of the highest practical value. Their adaptability at work was highly praised by employers. PolyU ranked first in the practicality of its courses for their relevance to the career development of its graduates.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Tzang said, 'The survey revealed that PolyU was one of the top three choices among secondary school students in their selection of tertiary institutions for further studies.?br&gt;
Employers also highly praised PolyU's ‘Preferred Graduate?Development Programme (PGDP) for helping equip graduates with practical working experience and understanding of the workplace. They showed preference for hiring PGDP participants.
In addition, according to the preliminary results of the University's Graduate Employment Survey 2003, about half of the respondents who had joined PGDP received their first job offer by June 2003. This is 8.4 per cent higher than those who did not join the Programme. Among the PGDP participants who had taken local placement, 18 per cent were employed by the same employers after graduation.
PolyU launched its first-of-its-kind PGDP in 1997 to help students gain on-the-job working experience before their graduation. So far, more than 750 companies and organizations have joined the Programme and about 3,800 students have benefited from it. Placement opportunities are now available in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, Australia, Europe and North America.
Mr Tzang said, 'It is gratifying to note that recruiters have showed stronger preference for PGDP participants in making job offers. This confirms the value of PGDP.?br&gt;
Meanwhile, PolyU's unique leadership training programme ?the Leadership and Competence for Success Programme (LCSP) ?was also highly commended by both PolyU staff and students for its practicality and usefulness in the image survey.
Statistics showed that PolyU students who had joined both PGDP and LCSP also had an easier time to secure jobs. More than half of them were employed by June 2003.
This year, PolyU students are expected to have better prospect in their job hunting. As of early March 2004, more than 5,500 vacancies were advertised to PolyU students, representing a 35.5 per cent increase when compared with the same period in 2003. The job offers range from art and design to banking and finance, accounting, computing, teaching, marketing, merchandising and engineering.
The Careers Exhibition opened by Member of the Executive Council and Legislative Council Mrs Selina Chow Liang Shuk-yee is one of the highlights of the 'Careers Fortnight 2004?organized by PolyU's Student Affairs Office to provide students with the latest job market information. More than 20 organizations from the private and public sectors have participated in the event.
