
[date]2003.12.30[/date]
[title]PolyU's optometric experts show their care for children[/title]
Working in collaboration with The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council, The Association of Private Practice Optometrists (APPO) and The Hong Kong Society of Professional Optometrists (HKSPO), Department of Optometry and Radiography (OR of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)) organized a charity project at Tung Chung Integrated Service Centre earlier this month.
More than 150 children from Primary Two to Primary Six benefited from the professional eye care services. These children all came from family with financial hardship. They received comprehensive eye examination covering assessment of vision, refractive error, colour vision, binocularity and fundus examination.
It was found that 56 of them required prescription for new spectacles which were provided free-of-charge by the donors. A few of them required further follow up because of squint or amblyopia. Some of them had significant refractive error and were only able to see clearly for the first time after receiving professional eye care services.
In some countries, optometric eye examination and prescription glasses for children are either covered by their government or by the insurance companies. However, the parents have to pay for these at their own expenses in Hong Kong. The rapid change of vision of children requires frequent prescription of new spectacles, and this poses a financial burden to those families with financial difficulties.
This event is organized with the aim of providing free and professional eye care services to those families who cannot afford to pay the costs of eye examination and prescription of spectacles. It is also hoped that the awareness of the importance of primary eye care examination can be raised through this event.
In 2002, OR launched its first charity project in Shek Kip Mei and received a lot of positive feedbacks. This year's event was made possible with the support of Sun Po Limited and those APPO members who had donated children's spectacle frames; while the spectacle lenses were sponsored by Swiss Laboratory Limited.
