
[date]2004.02.05[/date]
[title]PolyU Graduate School of Business holds its first ever Info Day[/title]
The relaunched Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its first Info Day for The Graduate School of Business (GSB) on this coming Saturday (7 February 2004), from 10.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
With an aim of offering academic counselling, advice on study planning and career information to interested students, the Graduate School of Business Info Day will include a comprehensive exhibition from 10.30 a.m., afternoon presentations and Q&amp;A sessions on various academic programmes from 2.30 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. GSB professors, alumni and graduate student ambassadors will be on hand to talk to individual prospective students. Refreshments will be available all afternoon in Logo Square opposite to FB's new Multi Media Resource Centre.
GSB is the first graduate business school in the history of Hong Kong Tertiary Education. It offers the widest spectrum of quality postgraduate programmes in the Asia-Pacific Region and spearheads the research and postgraduate programmes from the newly formed Faculty of Business.
GSB provides an integrated approach for the Faculty's development by enhancing its academic strength and raising the profile of research and postgraduate studies with DBA, MBA, MSc and other professional postgraduate programmes.
GSB aims to be recognized internationally as a leading provider of quality postgraduate business education in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and the Asia-Pacific region. Towards this goal GSB has already offered the highest number of approved business postgraduate programmes in the Chinese mainland by a non-PRC university. GSB is expanding rapidly to meet the needs of research and business students in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Currently GSB offers over 20 postgraduate programmes across many business disciplines ?all focused on developing the knowledge and business skills of the scholar-practitioner at both master and doctorate levels.
GSB offers not only high quality professionally-oriented business programmes, but meets the demands of executives by offering flexibility of study, the widest choice of specialisms plus credit recognition and exemption. These innovative and flexible programmes include the well-established Doctor of Business Administration, the first to be offered in Hong Kong, and a number of top-quality master programmes in management offered through the postgraduate-scheme.
The PolyU MBA is also one of the top MBA programmes in Hong Kong, attracting high calibre applicants to the four MBAs in General Management, Fashion Business, Financial Services and IT Management.
The MSc in China Business Studies, with its practical focus on doing business in the Chinese mainland, also attracts many entrepreneurial candidates as does the well-acclaimed MSc in Marketing Management.
GSB offers three unique MSc programmes ?International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Global Supply Chain Management, and Strategic Purchasing and Supply Management. These important industry programmes are only available in Hong Kong and attract many quality candidates from the shipping and logistics industry.
The professional programmes in accounting, including the Master of Corporate Finance and the Master of Professional Accounting (with the option of studying via HKCyberU online) are in high demand.
GSB prides itself on delivering quality programmes coupled with strong academic and student support services.
For more details on the PolyU GSB Info Day, please visit its official website at: www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb/infoday
Press Invitation
Press members are cordially invited to join the GSB Info Day with details as follows: Date: 7 February 2004 (Saturday) Time: 2.00 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Venue: TU201, PolyU
