
[date]2004.01.26[/date]
[title]PolyU wins Shenzhen Government's support to develop TCM key laboratory[/title]
The Shenzhen Municipal Government has recently designated The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Shenzhen-based Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine as a key laboratory specialising in traditional Chinese medicine products and related pharmacology.
The Institute is operated under the aegis of PolyU's Shenzhen Research Institute, and the Shenzhen Municipal Government has provided a RMB$2m grant to PolyU's subsidiary Pearl Modern Medicine Development Ltd to support this major development as one of the city's key laboratories.
Delighted with the attainment of key laboratory status, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing said: 'This result is a strong boost to our research and development endeavour in traditional Chinese medicine. It will also further strengthen research collaborations between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland, so that together we can further promote prosperity for the community at large.
Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, Director of the Institute and a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), said the Institute has won widespread support despite its relatively short history. In addition, it has been commissioned by pharmaceutical companies and major organizations, including the Hong Kong Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine, to undertake more than 10 contracts.
Prof. Chan added that apart from providing a platform for the research and development of pharmaceutical products, the Institute also offers professional services for the industry in Hong Kong. Equipped with state-of-the-art facilities over an area of 2,000-square-metre, the Institute is home to the Open Laboratory of Chirotechnology, SPF- (Specific Pathogen Free) Standard Animal Laboratory, GMP- (Good Manufacturing Practice) Standard Formulation Laboratory, DNA Chips Laboratory, and other laboratories for TCM pharmacology, TCM chemistry, toxicology and molecular pharmacology.
He further elaborated that the Institute is working in collaboration with top-notch physicians and experts in the mainland to develop high-quality health products and new drugs for the international market. The Institute's wide range of research activities also include qualitative/quantitative analysis and standardization of Chinese medicine.
The Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine and the Institute of Materia Medica operates under the PolyU Shenzhen Research Institute, which is a conglomeration of research centres and training facilities. In addition to the two Institutes, it also comprises the China Accounting and Finance Research Centre, Hong Kong Young Industrialists Council Executive Training Centre, and the MIC Multimedia Technologies Ltd. The Shenzhen Research Institute helps the University boost its research and professional services and develop high technology in collaboration with mainland scientists and researchers.
