
[date]2003.11.06[/date]
[title]PolyU mathematics professor scores world honour[/title]
Prof. Qi Liqun, Professor of the Department of Applied Mathematics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has recently been named one of the world's most influential mathematicians during the period of 1981 to 1999, according to the authoritative citation database ISIHighlyCited.com.
According to the ISIHighlyCited.com, Prof. Qi is one of the four researchers among the eight UGC-funded institutions being put on this roll of honour. There are four researchers from institutions in Taiwan, including Nobel Prize laureate Prof. Lee Yuan-tseh in Chemistry, and two researchers from Singapore.
The ISIHighlyCited.com is a latest feature prepared by ISI Web of Knowledge. With an aim of identifying individuals that have made fundamental contributions to the advancement of science and technology in the past two decades, the ISIHighlyCited.com recognizes top-notch scientists around the world and put them into 21 subject categories, ranging from molecular biology and genetics to space sciences. Each subject category will include no more than 250 researchers who have demonstrated great influence in their field as measured by the number of citations to their work.
A total of 232 researchers are listed in mathematics. Speaking on this latest honour, Prof. Qi said, "I am most honoured to be placed on the list, alongside with star mathematicians like Gene Golub of Stanford University; Peter Lax and Louis Nirenberg of New York University; Gilbert Strang of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Michael Crandall of University of California, Santa Barbara and Carl de Boor of University of Wiscosin-Madison. The latter two are in fact my teachers during my PhD study 20 years ago."
A Tsinghua graduate in Computational Mathematics in the '60s, Prof. Qi is an all-round mathematician with special interest in generalized Newton methods. Prior to his joining to PolyU in 1999, he had worked in a number of leading institutions including Tsinghua University, University of Pittsburgh, University of Michigan, University of New South Wales and many more. He is also a Plenary Speaker for many international conferences, member of international associations and editor of leading journals. Over the years, he has been granted about HK$10 million local and overseas funds for his research work.
