
[date]2004.03.16[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes seminar on application of reminiscence to elderly care services[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organize a seminar on "Application of reminiscence to elderly care services in Hong Kong" on 19 March (Friday).
The seminar is jointly organized by PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) and Kwai Chung Hsopital. This seminar is the finale of a reminiscence project titled, "Brightening Life of Older People" funded by the Health Care and Promotion Fund, Health, Welfare and Food Bureau. This reminiscence project has two main objectives: (1) to study the effects of a structured reminiscence programme on the wellbeing of community-dwelling older people, and (2) to develop a reminiscence resource kit that is culturally relevant to local elderly people. Useful support has been received from the Hong Kong Museum of History for the production of the reminiscence resource kit. It is expected that the seminar would help promote the knowledge of healthcare professionals in applying reminiscence to various levels of elderly care services in Hong Kong.
The Hon. Tam Yiu-chung, Chairman of the Elderly Commission, Health, Welfare and Food Bureau will open the seminar. Speakers include Dr W.M. Chan, Assistant Director, Elderly Health Services, Department of Health and Dr Joseph Ting, Chief Curator of Hong Kong Museum of History. Mr Tam will deliver a speech on Hong Kong's policy on elderly care. Dr Chan will deliver a keynote speech on 'Healthy Aging' and Dr Ting will talk about the exhibition of 'Hong Kong Story'.
Dr Jenny Chung, Assistant Professor of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, will also take the opportunity to discuss the results of the project on 'Effects of a structured reminiscence programme on the quality of life of community-dwelling older people'.  Dr Chung and Ms Grace Lee, Senior Occupational Therapist, Kwai Chung Hospital will explicate the development of the Reminiscence Resource Kit for local elderly people. Moreover, Ms Lee and Miss Cycbie Mok, Occupational Therapist of Castle Peak Hospital, will discuss the clinical application of reminiscence for older people with depression and with dementia.
