
[date]2004.09.01[/date]
[title]PolyU takes a big leap forward in recruiting non-local students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s new academic year kicked off with a welcoming ceremony held on campus for all its new full-time students yesterday 
(1 September). Among them, 77 are non-local students coming from different parts of the world, including the Chinese mainland, the United Kingdom, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Maldives, Croatia and Sri Lanka.
The academic year 2004/05 sees the admission of some 4,200 UGC-funded full-time first-year students, comprising about 2,200 undergraduate students and 2,000 higher diploma and diploma students. In addition, there are 2,600 new self-financed associate degree and top-up degree students. About 86 per cent undergraduate students who were admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as one of their top three (Band A) choices.
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, the University also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, about 800 students are admitted to the University via JUPAS 'Sub-system for School Principals' Nominations' and PolyU's 'Non-academic Achievements Self-Recommendation Scheme' and the 'Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme.'
It is anticipated that the number of non-local PolyU students will almost be doubled to reach 146 in the forthcoming academic year 2005/06. The recruitment of non-local students is in line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop global outlook of students and enhance cross-cultural exchanges.
At the associate degree level, a record high of 2,400 students are admitted to study in the 13 programmes offered by the PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) this year. Apart from the existing associate degree programmes covering the arts, applied social sciences, business, bilingual communication, design, engineering, healthcare, information technology and the sciences, four new programmes will also be offered this year to meet the community's need for professional manpower. They include: Associate in Beauty and Health Therapy, Associate in China Business, Associate in English for Business Communication, Associate in Statistics and Computing for Business.
To provide associate degree students with fuller campus life experience and more comprehensive facilities, HKCC has successfully acquired a site for the construction of a new campus building in Hung Hom Bay. The project will kick off in March 2005 and is scheduled to complete in 2007.
In addition, to provide pathways for students to advance to further studies, HKCC has established articulation agreements with over 30 well-established institutions at home and abroad. Recently, PolyU has also been allocated 220 UGC-funded senior places, the largest number of additional second-year undergraduate places among local tertiary institutions, for direct admission of sub-degree graduates.
The University's School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) will also expand its top-up degree programmes in the new academic year. Apart from the existing Bachelor of Arts in Applied and Media Arts, Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management, the School will introduce a new degree programme in Housing Management.
