
[date]2004.06.21[/date]
[title]ITF-funded nano-technology project bears fruit[/title]
Backed by financial support from the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF), textile scientists of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have successfully made use of nano-technology to develop a special fabric which can be made into self-cleaning clothes. This revolutionary breakthrough is reported in a recent issue of the internationally-renowned science magazine Nature.
In developing the special fabric at the 'Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel', PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, researchers Dr Walid A Daoud and Dr John Xin found the use of titanium dioxide coating as an efficient way of nano-tech treatment for the textile industry.
The titanium coating on fabrics serves as an anti-bacterial photocatalyst that help to break down carbon-based molecules. Once triggered by sunlight, the clothing made of such fabrics will be able to remove dirt, pollutants and micro-organism by itself.
It takes about 200 minutes to complete the titanium dioxide coating process: cotton fabrics are first dipped into the titanium dioxide solution, dried, and then heated in an oven for 15 minutes before being boiled in hot water for three hours.
After the treatment process, the titanium dioxide particles covering the cloth will be spread across exactly 20 nanometres apart, which is about 2,500 times smaller than the width of a human hair. More importantly, the nano-particles will be aligned in the 'anatase' crystal structure ' the key to the success of self-cleaning feature.
This ground-breaking research result has been published in the latest issue of the authoritative Journal of the American Ceramic Society in May 2004.
The PolyU's Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel is established in early 2003 with a $14.7m grant from the SAR Government's Innovation and Technology Fund as well as support from the industry. Its key mission is to consolidate and spearhead research development in the applications of nanotechnology for the textile industry.
Initially, the Centre's research efforts are focused on three areas, namely the development of a nano-structured surface polymerization system for multi-functional finishing, textile sensors and electrical apparel, and nano-structured photonic fabrics.
