
[date]2004.01.18[/date]
[title]Tourism report released to address risk management in Asia Pacific[/title]
Commissioned by the APEC International Centre for Sustainable Tourism (AICST), the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently contributed in an authoritative report on risk management for tourism in the Asia Pacific region.
Prompted by the terrorist bombings in Bali in October 2002 as well as unexpected events like SARS, AICST partnered with the Pacific Asia Travel Association and the World Tourism Organization to conduct a full study on risk management. PolyU was among one of the four leading institutions to be invited to take part in the study. The other three are Griffith University and James Cook University in Australia and the University of Hawaii.
Prof. Kaye Chon, Head and Chair Professor of HTM, stated that the newly released report could bring valuable advices and information to the hospitality industry by helping them better prepare and identify ways to minimize disruption in case of emergency.
"In spite of Hong Kong's relatively good track record in travel safety, the advent of globalization and the ever-increasing traffic within the region do not spare us from staying alert and be prepared for the potential crises. The occurrence of SARS in last summer was a typical example," said Prof. Chon.
With an aim of helping governments, industry groups and individual business operators to develop improved strategy on risk management, the AICST report explores a range of possible shocks and threats in relation to tourism in the Asia Pacific region and offers ideas for managing these risks. The report also highlights the importance of reputation management, crisis management as well as media and information management in response to the increasingly instantaneous communications nowadays.
For more information or an online version of the AICST report, please visit the website at www.crctourism.com.au.
