
[date]2004.04.30[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Wong's International Lecture Theatre naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (30 April) held a special ceremony to name one of its lecture theatres after Wong's International (Holdings) Limited in grateful recognition of its support to the University.
The ceremony was officiated at by Wong's International (Holdings) Limited Chairman Mr Benedict Wong Chung-mat, Mr Michael Wong Chung-yin, Executive Director Mr Johnny Wong Chung-ah, PolyU Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Lo thanked Wong's International for their tremendous support for the University in times of need. 'In view of the tightened government budget, Wong's International is among the first batch of industry leaders to pledge its support to PolyU,' said Mr Lo.
Prof. Poon said the robust support of Wong's International was again recognition of the vision of the University, that is, to provide application-oriented programmes and to groom professional, high-calibre talents for industries in Hong Kong and the motherland.
With strong belief in research and development, Wong's International also shows great concern for local tertiary education and community services. The Company made a generous donation of $3.5 million toward the PolyU Development Fund earlier on and supported the University's fund-raising golf tournament last year.
Founded in 1977 as Wong's Electronic, Wong's International is now a publicly-listed conglomerate, focussing on research and development of broadband and wireless solutions, office automation, telephone infrastructure and digital multi-media products. The Company has also extended its network into the Chinese mainland by opening their first manufacturing plant in Shenzhen in 1986 and another factory in Suzhou last year.
The Wong's International Lecture Theatre covers an area of 233 square metres, and has a maximum seating capacity of 132. It is a multi-purpose teaching facility, installed with comprehensive audio and visual equipment.
