
[date]2004.07.16[/date]
[title]HKCC to launch Hong Kong’s first Associate Degree in Beauty and Health Therapy with support from Monita Hair and Beauty College[/title]
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a subsidiary of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), yesterday (16 July) signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Monita Hair and Beauty College in launching Hong Kong's first Associate Degree in Beauty and Health Therapy this September.
The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC and Ms Cheng Ming-ming, Chairman of Monita Group Limited, witnessed by Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of PolyU's College of Professional and Continuing Education.
Commenting on this event, Prof. Wong said, 'To meet the increasing demand of professional talents for the beauty and health industry, HKCC takes the lead to introduce the first two-year full-time Associate Degree in Beauty and Health Therapy. It is our privilege to have secured support from the Monita Hair and Beauty College ' a leader in Hong Kong and the mainland ' in providing teaching and laboratory facilities in beauty studies to our students.'
Apart from basic academic study in beauty and health, students will be exposed to a variety of professional training in healthcare, such as immunology, cosmetics chemistry, diet and health, and microbiology etc. General subjects on business management, English skills for business communication will also be included in the curriculum.
To ensure its teaching quality, the new programmes will be supported by the teaching staff of PolyU's School of Nursing. Lectures and practical modules related to beauty subjects will be supported by the Monita Hair and Beauty College.
Students who are interested in the programme are welcome to attend one of its information seminars to be held on 17 July (Saturday) from 3.30 p.m. to 4.15 p.m. in Room PQ304, PolyU. Alternatively, applicants can visit the website of HKCC at www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc for more information.
