
[date]2004.02.16[/date]
[title]PolyU stages its 2nd Arts Festival[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is staging its second Arts Festival, under the theme of 'Culture &amp; Creativity: Turning Fantasy into Reality?from 16 February to 18 March on campus.
Organized by the Culture Promotion Committee and Faculty of Communication, the Festival was kicked off yesterday (16 Feb.) at a ceremony officiated at by PolyU President, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and PolyU Council member, The Hon. Henry Wu King-cheong. The Festival consists of more than 20 cultural programmes ranging from exhibitions, competitions, performances to talk series. These activities are expected to help enrich students?campus life and broaden their horizons in various art forms.
Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President and Chairman of the Culture Promotion Committee said, 'By means of various exhibitions, competitions, visits, talks, film screenings, and workshops, we are introducing students to successful examples or representative figures in different fields. Together we will savor their experiences and journey from dreaming to the realization of dreams, so as to bring cultural pleasures and enlightenment to the students.?br&gt;
Highlights of the Festival:
'Please Take a Seat?Exhibition ?Professional designers including Mr Barrie Ho, Mr Freeman Lau, Mr Alan Yip and Mr Douglas Young, together with students of the School of Design, express their unique concept on chair design, which are made into real chairs for trial on the campus.
'Reach for the Sky?Paper Aeroplane Folding Contest ?a competition which will bring participants to a journey of discovery and creativity. The winner will be presented with a round trip air ticket from Hong Kong to London on Virgin Atlantic.
Barbie Design Competition and Exhibition ?in conjunction with the 45th anniversary of the Barbie brand and with the sponsorship from Mattel Inc., PolyU invites all students and staff to unleash their creativity and design an outfit for Barbie from any material. Shortlisted entries will be exhibited and staged during the final competition at the Festival's closing ceremony.
'Fun with Food?Competition ?entrants will be asked to prepare creative recipes limited to eight ingredients. This exciting competition will be televised on campus 
and the 'PolyU Great Tea Cup Jog Competition?will also be held on the same day.
TV Commercial Series ?Excerpts of prize-winning TV commercials in 'The Annual Most Popular TV Commercial Awards?will be put up in the Festival with the support of Asia Television. Audience will be able to have a glimpse of the development of the TV advertising throughout the years.
For details of the activities of the Festival, please refer to the attached table of events. The activities are open to both the PolyU community and the public. Press members are welcome to cover the events.
