
[date]2004.06.05[/date]
[title]PolyU stages Design Graduation Show and Seminar[/title]
The School of Design (SD) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is proud to present to the public the creative works of its final-year students and design graduates in the Design Graduation Show 2004.
Themed 'Balance', this large-scale exhibition was opened yesterday (5 June) at the Hong Kong Science Museum by Chairman of the University Grants Committee Dr Alice Lam, PolyU Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo, and PolyU President Prof. Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. The Show is staged concurrently in the Science Museum and the PolyU campus from 10.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. daily until 13 June. Admission is free.
Backed by industry support, several awards were also presented to outstanding design students during the opening ceremony. They are the Philips Design Excellence Award, the MajorLink/Kaizor Award - Gold, Silver and Bronze, and three awards from Fashion Community Kitterick for the Most Creative Collection, the Most Marketable Collection and the Best Styling Collection.
Immediate following the ceremony, a Seminar by Distinguished Alumni and Faculty on design was held on PolyU campus. Targeted for industry, design graduates, students and academics, talks were given by design experts including Prof. John Heskett, Mr Kan Tai-keung, Mr Honson Lee, Mr Eric Chan, Mr Anthony Lo and Dr Lorraine Justice.
For the first time, the Design Graduation Show this year features the works of alumni and professionals - including prominent designers such as Mr Dennis Chan, Mr Freeman Lau, Mr Tommy Li and Mr Alan Yip - along with those of students in various design disciplines.
The works of students of the BA(Hons) in Design programme are showcased at the Special Exhibition Hall, G/F, Hong Kong Science Museum in TST East, Kowloon. Exhibits displayed at the School of Design, Core A of PolyU campus, are by SD alumni as well as students of the programmes Higher Diploma in Multimedia Design and Technology, Higher Diploma in Product Innovation Technologies and Diploma in Design Studies.
PolyU is the first and the leading provider of professional design education in Hong Kong. For more than four decades, the School of Design has groomed celebrated designers contributing to various industries in Hong Kong and the international community.
As reflected by the applications figures of the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) released earlier this week, SD's undergraduate design programme is among the most popular in PolyU and across local universities, attracting over 1,780 applications (as one of top three programme choices) for 111 places on offer.
For enquiries regarding the Design Graduation Show, please call 2766 5454.
