
[date]2003.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU responds to PAC's concerns[/title]
The Public Accounts Committee, in presenting its conclusions and recommendations on the Director of Audit? Report on Higher Education Institutions at last Wednesday (19 November)? Legislative Council Meeting, also raised a number of concerns.  The Hong Kong Polytechnic University wishes to address these concerns with the following clarifications:1.	PAC? concern:Whether PolyU, in the approval process of granting a cash allowance to its President, had complied with Section 9(3)(c) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Ordinance Chapter 1075, which states the PolyU Council should not delegate to any Committee appointed by it the power to approve the terms and conditions of service of persons in the employment of the University, other than persons in part-time or temporary employment.PolyU? response: PolyU firmly believes that its Council has complied with the provision of Section 9(3)(c) of the University Ordinance Chapter 1075 as the Council does retain and exercise its authority and responsibility in approving the standard terms and conditions of service, i.e. salary scale or range, types of leave, types of housing benefits, medical and dental benefits and insurance, passage, and education allowances, etc. and their extents where applicable, for all categories and grades of employees of the University other than those in part-time or temporary employment.  PolyU therefore is of the opinion that it has adhered to the spirit of that particular clause.The University believes that the intent of relevant stipulations in The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Ordinance is not to require the full Council to decide and approve individual package for each and every employee of the institution.  This would be inappropriate and unrealistic as the Council is to attend to policy matters and cannot attend to or handle details of personnel matters of an institution with around 3,000 employees.To handle the detailed execution and implementation of the terms and conditions of staff, committees have been set up for different groups of staff.  In the case of the President, the President? Personal Affairs Committee (PPAC) was set up.  The establishment and operation of PPAC in fact follows a practice since the 80? or perhaps earlier when the then Hong Kong Polytechnic established a Director? Personal Affairs Committee (DPAC).   PPAC is currently composed of seven lay members of the Council including the Council Chairman who serves as Chairman of PPAC.  The Ordinance for some other universities do not contain the same provision of Section 9(3)(c) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Ordinance Chapter 1075.  As far as PolyU understands, even those universities whose Ordinance carry the same stipulation also deal with matters relating to their President? or Vice Chancellor? personal affairs or that of other categories of employees in the same or similar manner as the PolyU does.  To address the possibility of different interpretation of this Section of the Ordinance, the PolyU intends to seek further clarification from both UGC and the Government and amendment or revision of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Ordinance in the near future so that the full Council will not be degenerated into a human resource office.2.	PAC? concern: The low occupancy rate of the PolyU student hostels.PolyU? response:PolyU wishes to point out that the percentage of vacant places of 36.4 per cent at its student hostels quoted by PAC is no longer valid.  The latest figure shows that a total of 2,514 students have already moved into the hostels since the commencement of the current academic year and more are expected to follow suit during the coming months.  The latest vacancy rate now stands at only 17 per cent.PolyU also states that at the time of construction of these hostels, the economy of Hong Kong was good and the hostel project was well received by students.  The level of provision of student hostels in the PolyU (i.e. 3,004 places) was calculated in accordance with a set of criteria stipulated by the Government.  Unfortunately, the economy was sluggish at the time the PolyU carried out its first round of admission exercise for the newly built hostels.Since the admission rate was not encouraging initially, the PolyU had taken a series of measures to attract students to apply for hostel residence.  One of these measures was the implementation of a Hall Resident Service Award Scheme, under which students residing in hostel were awarded one-day hostel residence free of charge, up to a maximum of 30 days, for every hour of voluntary service they performed.Instead of lowering the hostel fee, the PolyU was making continuous efforts to promote the educational objective of hostel life, e.g. by encouraging students to take up voluntary service in exchange for fee hostel residence or to engage in part-time jobs in the institution.  This not only alleviated the financial burden on students but was also conducive to their learning and personal development.3.	PAC? concern: The low occupancy rate of PolyU? senior staff quarters (SSQ).PolyU? response: As pointed out by the former Secretary General of University Grants Committee, the increase in the vacancy rates of SSQ was mainly caused by the introduction of the Home Financing Scheme (HFS) to the institutions from October 1998.  Since then, a large number of staff eligible for SSQ had opted to join the HFS.  This had significantly reduced the demand for SSQ, thus rendering a large number of these quarters vacant.PolyU has also drawn PAC? attention to the fact that as more and more residents at Pak Tak Yuan, its SSQ in Fotan, moved out after opting for HFS, the University management took the initiative of persuading its residents to move to Pak Sui Yuan, another PolyU SSQ in Tsimshatsui East.  With full cooperation of tenants concerned, PolyU was able to return the whole development of Pak Tak Yuan to the Government  in September 2000.  The property was subsequently sold by Government to a private developer for a total sum of $660 million, thus brought in extra revenue to the Government Treasury.  Up to now, PolyU is still the only UGC-funded institution that was able to return the whole SSQ property to the Government.Meanwhile, PolyU has converted 45 quarters at Pak Sui Yuan into guest quarters.  For the month of February 2003, rental collected by PolyU amounted to more than $500,000.
