
[date]2004.02.08[/date]
[title]1000-strong PolyU team walk for charity[/title]
Despite the cold weather, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University sent forth a 1000-strong team, comprising staff, students, alumni and their families and friends, to participate in the 'New Territories Walk?organized by the Community Chest yesterday (8 February) to raise funds for charity. The funds raised from this Walk will be used to provide 'Services for the Elderly?through the Chest's member social welfare agencies and service units.
Led by the University President, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Vice Presidents Prof. Philip Yeung, Prof. Ko Jan-ming and Dr Lui Sun-wing, the PolyU team set off for the walk after taking a group picture at the Starting Point, Wu Kai Sha Youth Village. Staff members from nearly 40 academic departments and administrative offices, joined by undergraduate and postgraduate students, alumni and their companions, contributed their efforts toward this charitable event. The route runs from the Youth Village, proceeds along the cycle track at the waterfront and ends at KCR East Rail University Station.
'This event has, over the years, helped foster a strong sense of belonging among PolyU members and provided an excellent opportunity for us to show our concern for the needy. It is the twelfth consecutive year that our University has participated in this meaningful activity and I am pleased that PolyU members have continuously given their strong support to this university-wide event.
'I am particularly glad that more than 700 PolyU students have registered for the Walk and showed their commitment to the local community this year. This is the largest number of students registered for this charitable event in our University's record. I am also pleased to note that a hundred graduates from 13 departmental alumni associations are joining hands with their alma mater to support this charitable Walk,?said Prof. Poon.
During the walk, all PolyU team members put on the windbreakers generously sponsored by Si Sport, and catering services were generously provided by Asia Pacific Catering in support of the University's participation.
PolyU has participated in the Walk for Millions since 1993. Over the past 11 years, more than 7,800 PolyU members have participated in the Walk for Millions and raised more than $2.4 million for the Chest. Last year, the PolyU team was the fourth Top Fund-raising Team in the Hong Kong &amp; Kowloon Walk with its donation of about $200,000 to the Community Chest.
    
