
[date]2004.08.13[/date]
[title]PolyU receives $10 m donation from Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosted a special ceremony on campus yesterday (13 August) to pay tribute to the Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association for its generous donation of HK$10 million in support of the University's development and nurture of students.
Officiating at the ceremony were: Mr Yau Chun-ying, Chairman of Executive Committee of the Association; Mr So Chung-ping, Chairman of Supervisory Committee of the Association; Mr Roy Chung, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
During the donation ceremony, Prof. Poon said, 'PolyU is most honoured to benefit from this major donation, which is also the single largest amount of donation from the Association since its establishment in 1953.
'The university campus at Hung Hom, officially opened for use in 1957, has been growing together with the district. Over the years, it has become a landmark spreading across the Tsim Sha Tsui and Hung Hom districts,' Prof. Poon added.
Apart from enhancing PolyU's teaching and research and students' recreational facilities, the donation will also support various university training programmes organized to enhance the all-round development of students, including the ‘Leadership and Competence for Success' Programme and ‘Preferred Graduate' Development Programme.
The ‘Leadership and Competence for Success' Programme is an intensive training programme designed to nurture the leadership qualities of PolyU undergraduate students. It consists of both interactive lectures and experiential activities covering various aspects such as teamwork and creative thinking. The ‘Preferred Graduate' Development Programme, introduced in 1997, aims to provide hands-on work opportunities for students in local companies, the Chinese mainland and overseas. The invaluable work experience acquired by students during the summer placements will be able to equip them with a competitive edge in the workplace upon graduation.
In addition, the Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association has specified to use part of the donation to support social work students of the University's Department of Applied Social Sciences. It is planned that the Department will send forth about 20 social work students each year to take part in some student exchange programmes in the Chinese mainland and overseas. It is to enhance the sense of social awareness and civil responsibility of those students who will be contributing to the field of social welfare and service.
Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association is renowned for its zealous support to education and social welfare. Over the years, it has generously donated to support the construction of schools and provision of medical facilities on the mainland. It has also rendered support to the Government in setting up the 'We Care Education Fund' for children of deceased SARS patients and more recently, sponsored the International Dragon Boat Race held in Hong Kong.
