
[date]2004.04.22[/date]
[title]PolyU graduates enjoy good career prospects[/title]
Only 2.4 per cent of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s first-degree graduates of 2003 were still seeking employment last December, six months after graduation. Among those employed graduates, 81.7 per cent secured their first job offer within three months after graduation.
These figures were revealed in the Graduate Employment Survey conducted by the University's Student Affairs Office, which reviewed the employment status of all full-time degree, sub-degree and postgraduate graduates as of December 2003. Out of last year's 4,106 graduates, 3,786 valid responses were received, representing an overall response rate of 92.2 per cent.
Among these graduates, nursing graduates were fully employed and their average salary increased by 14.1 per cent to $20,366; whilst the salary for hospitality/tourism sector also increased by 11 per cent to $10,276 per month. The average monthly salary of all employed first-degree graduates is $9,644.
Mrs Dorinda Fung, Director of Student Affairs, is optimistic about the employment prospect of PolyU graduates. She said, 'As Hong Kong's economy rebounds and continues to improve, we believe this year's graduates will enjoy even better prospect in their job hunting.'
She said that more than 7,200 job vacancies have been on offer to PolyU students (as of late March 2004), representing a 43.4 per cent increase when compared with the same period in 2003. The job offers range from art and design to banking and finance, accounting, computing, teaching, marketing, merchandising and engineering.
'We are also delighted that the majority (77.5 per cent) of those 2003 graduates in full-time employment reported that their training in PolyU was relevant to their present jobs. This result has re-affirmed the practicality of our programmes in relation to career development, which was rated highest among all tertiary institutions in an independent survey conducted late last year.'
In addition, according to the survey, about half of the respondents who had joined the University's ‘Preferred Graduate' Development Programme (PGDP) received their first job offer by June 2003. This is 8.4 per cent higher than those who did not join the Programme. Among the PGDP participants who had taken up local placement, 18 per cent were employed by the same employers after graduation.
The survey also found that some 5.8 per cent of the degree graduate respondents continued their academic pursuit, with PolyU being the most popular destination (36.4 per cent). Another 5.0 per cent were engaged in temporary or part-time jobs.
Among the various employment sectors, Community/Social Services absorbed the largest portion of employed degree graduates (19.2 per cent). This sector also offered the highest monthly salary ($12,259). In terms of job nature, the sales and marketing field absorbed the greatest number of graduates (16.7 per cent).
For sub-degree graduates, 96.8 per cent were either engaged in work or full-time study; while 2.8 per cent were still seeking employment in December 2003. 
Of those employed graduates, 63.3 per cent secured their first job offer by the end of August 2003. Their average monthly salary stood at $10,421.
Of those in full-time employment, 75 per cent reported that their training in PolyU was relevant to their present jobs. For the 36.7 per cent of sub-degree graduate respondents who continued their academic pursuit, PolyU again remained their most popular choice. 
For the higher degree graduate respondents, 75 per cent were either engaged in work or full-time study whilst 18.8 per cent returned to their country of origin or emigrated. Among the employed graduates, 70.8 per cent secured their first job offer within three months after graduation, and 83.5 per cent reported that their professional training at PolyU had relevance to their present jobs. The average monthly salary of the employed higher degree graduates was $12,680.
The Graduate Employment Survey is an annual exercise conducted by PolyU to collect information on the first destination of all full-time graduates at all levels. The survey helps facilitate planning of services to promote graduate employment and other career services.
