
[date]2003.11.26[/date]
[title]HKCC and SPEED hosts first Graduation Ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), under The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE), yesterday (26 November) held their joint Graduation Ceremony for the first time to send forth their 215 graduates.
Among the graduates, 194 were conferred Associate in Business, 12 with Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) Certificate, one with PCE Diploma in Information Technologies for E-Commerce and eight with Executive Diploma in Management Studies.
In a graduate survey conducted by HKCC, about 85 per cent of respondents stated that they are continuing their study in undergraduate programmes. Among them, 24 have successfully enrolled in UGC-funded programmes. More than 70 respondents are continuing their studies at PolyU, taking various BA programmes in the subjects of Accountancy, Hotel and Catering Management, Business Studies, Management, Marketing and Public Relations as well as Travel Industry Management. Others pursue further studies at local tertiary institutions, with only a few furthering their studies overseas.
Speaking at the Ceremony, Prof. Thomas Wong, Acting Dean of CPCE, said the first joint Graduation Ceremony stood as a milestone in the history of HKCC and SPEED. 'I take this opportunity to thank the University as well as our colleagues for their support and foresight. CPCE and its constituent entities shall continue to work together to strive for an ideal learning place for our students, so that when they graduate, they shall become ‘preferred graduates?of our society,?said Prof. Wong.
Since the establishment of HKCC in 2000/01, programmes run by HKCC were well received by learners. To support the Governments?policy of providing 60 per cent of senior school leavers with post-secondary education opportunities, PolyU started its first full-time Associate in Business in 2001, attracting an overwhelming number of applicants. Currently more than 2,100 students have registered with HKCC, studying Associate Degrees in Business, Arts, Science, Engineering, Information Technology and other specialized programmes such as Applied Social Sciences, Bilingual Communication, Design and Health studies.
Founded in 1999, SPEED aims to spearhead lifelong learning by offering a range of full-time and part-time award-bearing education programmes. With its unique Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM), learners can pursue lifelong learning through a flexible framework which allows them to accumulate credits which are valid for lifetime.
In June 2000, SPEED teamed up with a number of local and regional continuing education units to form a Consortium of Continuing Education Institutions (CCEI) to promote lifelong learning. Under the Consortium, courses or subjects offered by member institutions of CCEI may be recognized for transfer of credits under CAM such that students may continue their studies at SPEED.
To promote continuing education and lifelong learning, PolyU officially set up CPCE in 2002 to oversee its four self-financed education units, namely, HKCC, SPEED, the Hong Kong CyberU and the Centre for Professional and Business English.
