
[date]2003.11.12[/date]
[title]Eminent experts to speak on hydrogen infrastructure technology at PolyU[/title]
More than 200 academics and engineering practitioners will gather at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 18 November 2003 to attend the first Symposium on Hydrogen Infrastructure Technology for the Energy and Fuel Applications.
Jointly organized by PolyU's Department of Electrical Engineering and Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Limited, the symposium aims to provide a stimulating forum for the exchange and dissemination of technical information among academics and practicing engineers in the field. Mr Thomas Chow, Deputy Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works Bureau will deliver his keynote speech. Ten speakers will share their views on different areas of hydrogen infrastructure technology such as energy and fuel applications, environment, hydrogen codes and standards, fuel cell applications, power conditioning, etc. They include:
Mr Barrie Cook, Member, Council for Sustainable Development, HKSAR; and Non-Executive Director, Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Limited 
Prof. Zongqiang Mao, Professor of Tsinghua University 
Mr Randy Dey, Chairman, ISO/TC 197 Hydrogen Technologies 
Ms Christine Loh, Chief Executive Officer, Civic Exchange 
Mr Robert Natkin, Manager, Ford Motor Limited 
Mr Don Fraser, Business Manager, Dynetek Industries Limited 
Dr Alain Lam Kwok-lun, Principal Environmental Protection Officer, Environmental Protection Department 
Dr John Wrigly, Senior Environmental Protection Officer, Environmental Protection Department 
Dr Hugo Vandenborre, Executive Vice President, Stuart Energy Systems 
Prof. D. Sutanto, Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, PolyU
Meanwhile, the panel discussion sessions of the symposium will address the recent development and government policy. Power generation using hydrogen will also be demonstrated. Please visit http://www.ee.polyu.edu.hk/staff/h2/info.htm for more details.
The Department of Electrical Engineering of PolyU has developed a strong tradition of research and teaching over the years and has committed to providing advanced consultancy services to industry.
