
[date]2004.07.30[/date]
[title]PolyU to offer Hong Kong's first doctoral programme in health science[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Nursing will launch Hong Kong's first Doctor of Health Science programme in the 2004/05 academic year.
The programme is specially designed to prepare senior health care practitioners to further develop their professional competence for leadership roles in the field. It emphasizes synthesis and application of knowledge in different health-related disciplines and helps enhance students' critical thinking and research capability. The programme will not only be useful to their professional and career development, but also help prepare them to meet the new challenges of modern health care development.
The prerequisite for admission is a master's degree in nursing or health-related discipline, and with at least five years' experience in professional health care. This part-time, credit-based programme can be completed in three years to a maximum of eight years.
The programme will be structured with four compulsory subjects, four elective subjects and a doctoral thesis, totaling 48 credits. The compulsory subjects are: concept analysis in health care; health care ethics; advanced research methods in health care and health economics. Students will be awarded a doctoral degree upon satisfactory completion of the programme.
The programme is now open for application until 7 August. Further information can be obtained from the School's official website: http://nhs.polyu.edu.hk/nhs
PolyU's School of Nursing has a history of over 20 years with solid teaching experience. It has first introduced the BSc (Hons) in Nursing, BSc (Hons) in Biomedical Science and BSc (Hons) in Medical Laboratory Science in Hong Kong. Through the integration of education, research, clinical experience, modern technology and community service, the School strives to nurture 'preferred graduates' and promote the health care development in Hong Kong and nearby regions.
