
[date]2004.02.19[/date]
[title]PolyU to host inaugural lecture by distinguished scientist: "Imagine - the Future of Health"[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will host a public inaugural lecture given by Prof. Georges M. Halpern, entitled "Imagine - the Future of Health" on campus on 24 February. The world renowned scientist is Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences with the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, newly-appointed under the University's Distinguished Professionals Scheme.
In his inaugural lecture, to be conducted in English, Prof. Halpern will share his views about the future of health. In his view, the future of health on the Chinese mainland will influence the world. China, like some other densely populated countries, is facing emerging plagues and is prone to rapid contamination and dissemination of old and novel infections, including influenzas, SARS and HIV. In this regard, Prof. Halpern is working closely with leading Chinese scientists in proposing the setting up of an Emergency Network Information Centre. Its aim is to help build a comprehensive, state-of-the-art alert network for emerging plagues.
Prof. Halpern is also Professor Emeritus of Medicine and Nutrition of the University of California, Davis; Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine (London); and was outside Consultant for the World Health Organization (infectious and parasitic diseases, public health issues). He has been actively giving advice to governments and industries worldwide, and was involved in the fight against SARS last year.
Prof. Halpern focuses his current research on the positive role of "pleasure".  According to him, pleasure helps regulate the central nervous, immune and endocrine systems of human beings, and is essential to health and a healthy community.
Under PolyU's Distinguished Professionals Scheme, distinguished and prominent professionals will be appointed as Professors in the University for a term of about two or three years. During the term of appointment, they are expected to contribute to the University's academic development from an industrial/ professional perspective in such areas as teaching, research and consultancy.
