
[date]2004.01.10[/date]
[title]First Asia-Pacific regional adolescent health congress opens[/title]
The First Asia-Pacific Regional Adolescent Health Congress "Towards Healthy Adolescence: Intersectoral Collaboration"commenced yesterday (10 January) on campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). The opening ceremony was officiated at by Dr E. K. Yeoh, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food, who was also the Patron of the Congress. Local advisers to the Congress, including Dr C. H. Leong, President, Hong Kong Academy of Medicine; Dr Rosanna Wong, Chairman of Education Commission; Dr Lam Ping-yan, Director of Health; Mr Tang Kwok-wai, Director of Social Welfare; Mr Cheung Hing-wah, Assistant Director of Social Welfare (Youth and Correction), also attended the opening ceremony.
The three-day (10 to 12 January) Congress brings together hundreds of representatives and experts to discuss the health and development of adolescents in the Asia-Pacific region. It is hosted by Hong Kong College of Paediatricians, PolyU's School of Nursing, and Hong Kong Paediatric Nurses Association, under the auspices of the International Association of Adolescent Health. The focus of the Congress is adolescent health issues that are related to families, schools, peers and communities.
The aim of the Congress is to provide an opportunity to strengthen cross sector collaborations. Representatives from almost 20 countries and regions, comprising 500 professionals from different sectors are participating. Among them are adolescent health leaders, scientists, health and social workers, teachers, parents, government and non-governmental organizations and industry representatives.
Among the keynote speakers are Dr David Bennett, Head of the Department of Adolescent Medicine, the Children's Hospital at Westmead; Dr Natsag Udval, Vice Minister of Health in Mongolia; Ms Kathleen Fritsch, Regional Adviser of Nursing, Western Pacific Regional Office, World Health Organization; Dr Philemon Choi Yuen-wan, Chairman of the Commission on Youth; Dr Winnie Tse Wing-yee, Consultant Paediatrician, Queen Elizabeth Hospital; and Mr Gary Ng Ka-wing, medical student, the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
The Congress discusses topics including sexual health, the Internet and adolescents, disordered eating, substance use and youth service delivery. Dr Chow Chun-bong, member of the Congress steering committee, Consultant Paediatrician of the Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Princess Margaret Hospital said: "Today's adolescents live in a rapidly changing and complex environment which is full of challenges, risks and opportunities. In this environment, their health is at risk. To protect the health of adolescents, adolescents need to be connected to peers, families, schools and communities.
All services and all stakeholders that support them need to be involved in a strategic and collaborative way. These services must include not only health, but also social services, education, justice, commerce and industry, arts, sports and recreation; not only government, institutions, professionals, parents, politicians and business people, but also adolescents themselves.
"For sustainable development, we need priority commitment from policy makers, expert contributions from professionals, unsparing support from the public and meaningful participation from youths for a 'whole youth approach' to policy development and service planning and delivery that focuses on the whole life and circumstances of a child."
Collaborating Organizations of the Congress include: Institute of Health Care, Hospital Authority, Commission of Youth, Hong Kong Council of Social Service, Pi Iota Chapter, Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing.
Further details on the Congress can be obtained from its official web site: http://nhs.polyu.edu.hk/nhs/ahc/index.html
