
[date]2004.07.27[/date]
[title]SPEED holds design exhibition to show off students’ talent[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), an affiliate of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), will hold an exhibition to feature outstanding works of its design students from 31 July to 9 August on campus.
The Exhibition will present more than 200 creative works done by students of SPEED in six major areas namely art, product, graphic, interior, fashion, and jewellery design. These courses, ranging from 42 to 96 teaching hours, are offered under SPEED's Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM). With an aim to inspire students' creativity and widen their knowledge and skills in art and design, these design courses every year attract applicants of various backgrounds and educational levels.
Highlights of this year include outstanding works done by professionals from non-design sector such as accountants, engineers and management professionals. Despite their non-design background, many students find the SPEED courses useful in unleashing their creativity and design talent which is beneficial to their current jobs. This year, a number of students enrolled are either Bachelor's or Master's Degree holders.
PolyU has long been a leader in design education, nurturing many talented young men and women for design and creative industries. Taking this advantage, SPEED has developed various design courses for in-service practitioners and interested students since 2002. A number of these courses have been included in the list of reimbursable courses under the Government's Continuing Education Fund (CEF). Last year, the Government further demonstrated its support to lifelong education by relaxing the eligibility for the application of CEF to university graduates.
Media invitation
Members of the press are welcome to visit the exhibition with details as follows: 
Date: 31 July - 9 August
Opening hours: 10 am to 6 pm
Venue: SD Gallery, AG101, PolyU campus
Enquiry: 3400 2828
