
[date]2004.05.21[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Tin Ka Ping Lecture Theatre naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (21 May) named a lecture theatre on its campus after philanthropist Dr Tin Ka-ping in recognition of his longstanding support for education advancement and generous benefaction for the University.
The naming ceremony was officiated at by Dr Tin Ka-ping, Founder of K.P. Tin Foundation Limited and Chairman of TinsChemical Corporation Ltd; Mr Roy Chung, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Chung thanked Dr Tin for his benevolence and tremendous support for the University. 'Dr Tin's concern for the well-being of the community is in line with our belief in education, as manifested in the University motto: To learn and to apply, for the benefit of mankind. We are particularly grateful that Dr Tin had given us a helping hand during Hong Kong's economic downturn last year.'
Prof. Poon said that the robust support of Dr Tin was yet another recognition of the University's efforts in providing application-oriented programmes and grooming professional, high-calibre talents for industries in Hong Kong and the motherland. He said: 'By naming a lecture theatre after Dr Tin, it reminds us of his philanthropic spirit as well as his zealous concern for education.'
A successful entrepreneur, Dr Tin shows great concern for education affairs and has made a generous donation of $3 million toward the PolyU Development Fund earlier on. Dr Tin settled in Hong Kong in 1958 in which he founded TinsChemical Corporation Ltd. He has contributed significantly to Hong Kong's chemical industry and extended its products to overseas markets, and is therefore known as 'King of Synthetic Leather'.
Since the establishment of the K.P. Tin Foundation Limited in 1982, Dr Tin has made generous donations to over 40 institutions each in both the tertiary and secondary education sectors, and hundreds of hospitals and charitable organizations on the Chinese mainland. He has also contributed to local charitable bodies including the Community Chest, Po Leung Kuk, Salvation Army, Tung Wah Group of Hospitals and Yan Oi Tong.
Dr Tin's remarkable contributions to community service and education have earned him numerous honours. He is honorary citizen of over 30 provinces, cities and counties on the mainland, and is awarded honorary professorship by more than 30 tertiary institutions. Furthermore, an asteroid (2886) was named after Dr Tin by the International Asteroid/ Comet Naming Committee in 1993.
The Tin Ka Ping Lecture Theatre occupies an area of approximately 230 square metres, with a maximum capacity of 132 seats. It is a multi-purpose teaching facility, installed with comprehensive audio and visual equipment.
