
[date]2004.07.20[/date]
[title]SPEED extends deadline for new round of professional programmes[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), today announced extension of application deadline for its new degree and sub-degree programmes to 10 August.
Dr Anthony Tam, Director of SPEED, said, 'Since the beginning of the application period, we have received more than 1,000 applications for a wide array of programmes. Among them, our top-up Bachelor's Degree programmes are the most popular for Associate Degree graduates. In response to the applicants' needs, we have decided to extend the application deadline to August to give them more time in choosing the programmes best suited their needs.'
In academic year 2004/05, a total of 38 award-bearing programmes leading to awards of PolyU-SPEED and overseas universities will be offered. To provide more education opportunities for sub-degree graduates, the School will expand its top-up degree programmes in the new academic year. Apart from the existing Bachelor of Arts in Applied and Media Arts, Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management, the School will introduce a new degree programme in Housing Management in September 2004. Students who take the full-time mode may complete the degree within one and a half years.
Two brand new part-time programmes including Diploma Scheme in Apparel Studies and Certificate in Financial Planning will also be offered. The Diploma Scheme is a distance-learning programme to be offered in the Chinese Mainland and Malaysia.
SPEED will also collaborate with two renowned overseas universities to introduce three new top-up degree programmes. They are: Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Business Management and Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Computing from the Northumbria University of the U.K.; Bachelor of Business Studies in Finance or Financial Economics from the Massey University of New Zealand. Students of the Massey University can also opt for the Honours route by taking four more modules.
Among some 220 courses offered by SPEED under the Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM), many have been included in the list of 'reimbursable courses' under the Continuing Education Fund. They cover areas such as business services, creative industries, design, financial services, logistics and supply chain management, language and tourism.
For copies of SPEED's prospectus, please visit its office at Room QR802 (8th Floor), Core R, PolyU or visit its website at www.speed.polyu.edu.hk. Limited copies are also obtainable from District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
Opening hours of SPEED are:
Mondays to Fridays: 8.30 a.m. ' 7.00 p.m.
Saturdays: 9.00 a.m. ' 12.00 noon
Sundays and Public Holidays: Closed
Public enquiry: 3400 2828
 Deadline for applications will be extended to 10 August 2004 except for the programme of Executive Diploma in Management Studies (programme code 84007) which will be 31 July
