
[date]2004.07.09[/date]
[title]Eminent experts to promote biometric authentication technologies at PolyU[/title]
More than 180 biometric authentication academics and practitioners will gather at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 15 to 17 July to attend the First International Conference on Biometric Authentication.
Organized by PolyU's Department of Computing, this conference is the first major gathering in the Asia-Pacific region. It aims to provide a stimulating forum for the exchange and dissemination of the latest development in biometric technologies and systems, identify emerging industry issues, advocate a high standard of practice, explore and exploit research potentials and map out the future system developments.
At the invitation of PolyU, Mrs Marion Lai, Acting Permanent Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology (Communications and Technology), will deliver her speech at the opening. The Conference will also witness keynote addresses by renowned scholars and experts, and presentation of more than 100 technical papers.
To facilitate the transfer of multiple biometrics technologies from university to industry, the Department of Computing of PolyU took lead in setting up the Biometric Research Centre in 1998. Among its researchers, Prof. David Zhang, Associate Head of the Department of Computing and Director of the Biometric Research Centre, has successfully developed the palmprint authentication technologies. This remarkable development has earned him the coveted honour of the Senior Research Fellowship Award by the Croucher Foundation this year. His invention―the world's first Palmprint Identification System―has also won many international awards including the Gold Medal in the 14th National Inventions Exhibition of China in 2003, Special Gold Award by the Invention Promotion Association of Korea in 2002.
A public exhibition will also be held during the Conference on PolyU campus to demonstrate the latest biometric products and prototypes. Exhibitors include PolyU, Immigrant Department of HKSAR, other local and overseas universities and organizations worldwide.
The opening hours and venue of the exhibition are:
Date &amp; Time :
15 ' 16 July : 10.00 a.m. ' 6.00 p.m. 
17 July : 10.00 a.m. ' 12 noon 
Venue :
11/F, Shirley Chan Building, (Core R), PolyU, Hung Hom
