
[date]2003.11.28[/date]
[title]PolyU sets sight on the Chinese mainland[/title]
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), said the University Council and Senate have recently agreed that PolyU would offer its renowned Higher Diploma programmes outside Hong Kong as early as 2004 under the licensing or franchising arrangement with partner educational institutions.
Speaking at PolyU's Ninth Congregation, Prof. Poon said: 'This is truly a pioneering endeavour for us, and is also the first time that we try to export our professional-oriented sub-degree programmes. Although we will launch these programmes under licensing or franchising arrangements, we will safeguard the quality of these programmes and that of the teaching staff.
'All graduates of these external programmes must meet our stringent requirements before they can be conferred with PolyU academic awards,?he stressed.
According to Prof. Poon, the overwhelming majority of established mainland institutions are clustered around the north of the Yangtze River, while there are only a few reputable institutions that provide education for nearly 300 million people residing in the eight provinces in southern China.
'In order to redress this imbalance, we will strive to forge ahead with the plan of developing PolyU as a leading provider of professionally-oriented education in southern China,?he said.
The University has recently formulated a blueprint for the further development of outpost activities outside the territory of HKSAR in the next five years. It will also explore the possibility of establishing a sub-campus in southern China, making use of its teaching staff to provide quality education, groom more talents for the country and foster scientific advancement.
Prof. Poon stressed: 'Despite our priority for spearheading education development on the mainland, PolyU remains firmly rooted in Hong Kong, and we will never forget our primary concern of serving the local community. In addition to preserving our international dimension, we will always strive to meet the needs of the community in what we do, and seek to enhance the competitiveness of our industry and commerce.?
He also urged other local tertiary institutions to set their sights on the Chinese mainland while retaining Hong Kong as their own base, and proactively expand their programmes in southern China.
'We can make full use of our advantages ?our academics and researchers, in addition to our legal system, transportation and communication infrastructures ?to groom talents for the Pearl River Delta Region and southern China, explore new frontiers in scientific research, expedite technology transfer, and make concrete contributions to the integration process,?he said.
With a total enrolment of nearly 2,000 in some 30 programmes, out of which 12 are approved by the State Council's Academic Degree Committee, PolyU is taking the lead in offering the largest number of accredited external programmes on the mainland among all of the universities in Hong Kong and overseas.
The University has since 1998 forged alliances with many established institutions on the mainland, including Zhejiang University, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Chongqing University and Peking University. Over the years, PolyU has established four training bases in Hangzhou, Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Xi'an, offering internationalized executive training programmes in these major cities.
In his address to the Congregation, Prof. Poon also urged the Government to support the further advancement of the education sector in a forward-looking manner. He said: 'Only in this way can our tertiary institutions build upon their solid foundations to forge ahead, realize their goals, raise their standards in both teaching and research activities, enhance the competitiveness of our commerce and industry, and nurture high-calibre graduates for Hong Kong and the motherland.?br&gt;
Prof. Poon also encouraged PolyU graduates to face hardships with boldness and determination, and not to lose sight of their goals and vision. He said university graduates must have both ambitious goals and a down-to-earth work attitude, and always seek to sharpen their competitiveness.
During the Congregation, more than 8,500 postgraduates, undergraduates and sub-degree students received their academic awards, of whom 78 were conferred Doctor of Philosophy and 22 with Doctor of Business Administration. On the same occasion, 26 programmes in the areas of logistics, China business, tourism management, health technology and Internet technology sent forth their first cohort of graduates.
This year, PolyU also conferred awards upon 264 Chinese mainland graduates who have successfully completed 11 PolyU programmes offered in the mainland. A total of 148 were awarded higher degrees, while 116 received their awards at degree or sub-degree level. Many of them have made a special trip to Hong Kong to join this memorable occasion.
