
[date]2003.09.15[/date]
[title]Novel applications for PolyU-invented antioxidant test[/title]
Developed by researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), a unique test for measuring antioxidant capacity has been employed by scientists worldwide for probing into the antioxidant and potentially anti-ageing ingredients of different foods, ranging from Lingzhi and green tea to wines and, more recently, in dark chocolate.
Led by Prof. Iris Benzie of PolyU's School of Nursing (Ageing and Health Section), the research team had successfully pioneered the Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power (FRAP) assay for measuring total antioxidant capacity. This test was developed by Porf. Benzie in 1996, and a US patent was granted for this in 2001.
In a recent issue of the scientific journal Nature (Vol 424, 28 August 2003), European scientists have made use of the PolyU-developed test to compare and evaluate the amount of antioxidants absorbed from milk chocolate and dark chocolate. Their results found that dark chocolate, which could boost blood antioxidant level by nearly 20 per cent, may have greater potential health benefits in comparison to milk chocolate.
Introducing the latest development of antioxidant research at PolyU, Prof. Benzie said: 'There is a lot of evidence that antioxidant-rich diets promote healthy ageing, and our research at PolyU focuses on the antioxidant properties of fruits, vegetables, teas and Chinese herbs in relation to this, and to lowering risk of chronic disease, such as cancer and heart disease. We need to establish if antioxidants in food and Chinese herbs are absorbed and study the mechanisms underlying their health benefits.
"We have focused on teas and herbs because of their local relevance, but this latest study in the world famous journal Nature puts the FRAP assay on the global map, and shows that it can be used for other potentially beneficial dietary agents."
The application of this important breakthrough is not limited to the academic circle. Earlier on, Prof. Benzie was invited by the Vita Green Health Products Co. Ltd to render her expertise in evaluating the possible health benefits of Lingzhi, and experimental results showed that the Chinese herb could increase antioxidant level in human body. A paper describing these results is currently in press in the International Journal of Food Science and Nutrition.
Making use of the FRAP assay and other related sophisticated testings, Prof. Benzie's research team at PolyU has performed numerous research studies and generated a host of papers and publications on antioxidant and age-related topics over the past few years. The highly inter-disciplinary nature of antioxidant research has helped PolyU established an extensive research network with internationally recognised experts in human nutrition, cancer biology, DNA damage and repair, ageing, and diabetes.
In 2001, Prof. Benzie also received a grant of $870,084 by the London-based World Cancer Research Fund International for a research project to investigate the possible anti-cancer effects of fruits, vegetables and Chinese herbs. The aim of the research project is to develop a more physiologically relevant test to assess the benefits of antioxidant-rich foods in relation to cancer prevention. As cancer is the leading cause of death in Hong Kong, this type of research has significant implications for the health and well-being our ageing population.
