
[date]2003.11.17[/date]
[title]PolyU strengthens its institutional alliance on continuing education[/title]
The Consortium of Continuing Education Institutions (CCEI), initiated by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), yesterday (17 November) held a signing ceremony to renew its collaborative agreement with the existing members and to welcome four new members for the alliance.
During the ceremony, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed by representatives of the ten consortium members to agree on a five-year co-operation. Representatives of the current consortium members include Dr Andrew Ma, Coordinator of Caritas Adult and Higher Education Service; Mr Chan Cheuk-hay, Principal of Hong Kong College of Technology; Mr Cheng Yiu-tong, President of Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions; Mr Edmund Sung, Branch Director of Hong Kong Productivity Council; Prof. Eric Chao, Vice President of Macau Polytechnic Institute; and Dr Anthony Tam, Director of PolyU's School of Professional Education and Executive Development. Meanwhile, representatives of the four new members include Dr Simon Leung, Acting Director of Hong Kong Community College; Mr Anthony Mak, Chief Manager of Hong Kong Housing Authority/Housing Department; Mr Lau Tai-fai, Deputy Director of Hong Kong Management Association; and Dr Jimmy Wong, Chairman of Po Leung Kuk and Supervisor of Po Leung Kuk Chao Lee Wai Hing College of Professional and Continuing Education.
Under the agreement, member institutions agree to promote lifelong learning through the Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) of SPEED. CAM provides a channel through which subjects offered as part of a continuing education programme by other member institutions will be properly assessed and benchmarked for the purpose of credit transfer towards different levels of CAM wards.
Students who have successfully completed CAM subjects can accumulate their credits to obtain a Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) award at either the levels of Certificate, Diploma, Associate or Bachelor degrees. They may also apply to transfer their credits to conventional PolyU programmes.
PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Prof. Philip Yeung said: 'The extension of this agreement not only marks an important milestone in the further advancement of lifelong education in both Hong Kong and Macau, but also facilitates course planning and programme development of member institutions. The joining of four new members today also deepens the scale and scope of the CCEI network.?br&gt;
The establishment of CCEI and CAM were commended in the Government's 2002 consultation paper on Qualifications Framework and its Associated Quality Assurance Framework as model for credit transferability in the HKSAR.
The CCEI was initiated by SPEED and founded in June 2000, following an agreement signed among SPEED, Caritas Adult and Higher Education Service, Hong Kong College of Technology and Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, to form an alliance to promote lifelong education. Two more members, Hong Kong Productivity Council and Macau Polytechnic Institute, joined the CCEI in late 2001.
