
[date]2004.03.30[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts first Hall Festival to share joy of hostel life[/title]
To share the joy of hall life and promote the value of hall education among students, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is holding its first Hall Festival from 30 March to 1 April on campus.
The Festival was kicked off at an opening ceremony held yesterday (30 March), in the presence of PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and Vice President (Student Development) Prof. Leung Tin-pui as the officiating guests.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said: 'PolyU always strives to nurture high quality professionals for society and we place strong emphasis on all-round education. We believe that hall life is an important element of the social dimension in university education.
'Students residing at the hall are given additional training in handling human relationships, building up personal network, communication skills, adaptability and many others, with which will bring lifetime benefits to the students. I hope that students can make the best out of their university years and grasp the invaluable chance of living in the hall.?br&gt; During the ceremony, the University also presented tokens of appreciation to over 15 academic departments which have altogether set up about a hundred scholarships to subsidize interested students to live in the hall.
Organized by the Student Affairs Office and Student Halls of Residence, the three-day Festival comprises a wide variety of activities, including hall residents?performances, exhibitions of winning works of the hall logo design and hall photo-taking competitions, inter-hall tug-of-war and cooking competitions.
Officially opened in 2002, the Student Halls of Residence has provided a fuller university experience to more than 4,500 PolyU students. Since its inception, the Halls have actively run a series of academic, social and cultural activities, including talks, high table dinners and inter-hall sports competitions, to help enhance students?personal growth and sense of belongings. A team of hall wardens, tutors and administrators are also on hand to provide pastoral care and intellectual guidance, support and encouragement to student residents.
Located 15 minutes away from the main PolyU campus, the Student Halls of Residence provides 3,004 hostel places and currently has an occupancy rate of 90 per cent. The 22-storey high rise occupies a site area of 5,868 square metres. Student residents are grouped into nine halls, with each hall taking two floors.
Shared between two residents, each standard room is air-conditioned and well-equipped with Internet connection, mini-fridge and TV outlet. The premises also house a swimming pool, a dining hall, an exhibition hall, a fitness room and various multi-purpose activity rooms, to facilitate students?all-round development.
