
[date]2003.09.01[/date]
[title]Launch of Faculty of Business adds vitality to new academic year[/title]
More than 150 business leaders and senior academics gathered at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to celebrate the inauguration of its Faculty of Business (FB) on the first day of the new academic year.
At a ceremony held yesterday (1 September) on the University campus, the new logo of FB was officiallly unveiled by Dr Patrick Fung Yuk-bun, Chairman and Chief Executive of Wing Hang Bank Ltd, who is also Chairman of the Working Party on the restructuring of the former Faculty of Business and Information Systems; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of FB.
Led by Dr Patrick Fung, the working party has since 2002 conducted extensive consultations in connection with the Faculty's new structure through open forums and meetings with external academics, industrialists, professionals, staff and students.
Introducing the new change, Prof. Tsui said, "PolyU always takes pride in its high quality business programmes. It is the changing economic and business education landscape that prompted us to take a fresh look at our strengths and give the Faculty a more strategic focus. The new restructure will facilitate our goals of achieving the vision of becoming a leading business school in the Asia Pacific region."
A unique feature of this restructuring exercise is the establishment of a Graduate School of Business - the first of its kind in Hong Kong - to enhance FB's academic strength and raise the profile of postgraduate studies; and to spearhead the future development of high quality research and consultancy services. FB also comprises four academic units, namely, the School of Accounting and Finance - a unique set-up integrating Accounting and Finance, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Department of Logistics, and Department of Management and Marketing.
It is anticipated that the new structure can more effectively meet the business education requirements in both Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland, as the global economic environment becomes increasingly competitive. The new structure is also in line with the development of the pillar industries of Hong Kong economy, namely, financial services, logistics, tourism and producer services.
The new academic year also sees the admission of some 4,800 UGC-funded full-time first-year students, comprising 2,579 undergraduate students and 2,228 higher diploma and diploma students; and 1,700 self-financed associate degree and top-up degree students. They were welcomed by the President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong at a ceremony held on campus yesterday.
To further the all-round development of students, about 700 local students are admitted to the University via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) "Sub-system for School Principals' Nominations" and PolyU's "Non-academic Achievements Self-Recommendation Scheme" and the "Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme."  To promote the internationalization of PolyU, about 100 non-local students are also admitted for various levels of study.
Furthermore, PolyU is partnering with the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) for the first time this year to allow students of both universities to take each other's subjects. PolyU's full-time undergraduate students have an additional 11 general education subjects to choose from CUHK. In return, CUHK students can take a selection of subjects offered by PolyU.
At the associate degree level, a record high of 1,600 students are admitted to study in the nine programmes offered by the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) this year. To meet the community's need for professional manpower, HKCC has expanded the range of its associate degree programmes to cover Applied Social Sciences, Bilingual Communication, Design and Health Sciences.
The University's School of Professional Education and Executive Development also launched its first top-up degree programme - the Bachelor's Degree in Marketing and Public Relations ?for sub-degree graduates. A total of 82 full-time and 85 part-time students have registered for the programme.
