
[date]2003.10.19[/date]
[title]PolyU offers largest number of accredited training programmes on mainland[/title]
With a total of 12 programmes approved by the State Council's Academic Degree Committee and being offered in major cities, PolyU is now offering the largest number of accredited programmes on the mainland among all universities in Hong Kong and overseas.
In collaboration with several major mainland universities such as Beijing University, Zhejiang University, Chongqing University and Nankai University, these accredited programmes include Executive Master of Business Administration, Master of Science in Hotel &amp; Tourism Management, Master of Science in International Shipping and Transport Logistics, and Master of Science in Project Management.
Apart from this, to satisfy the escalating need for human resources development on the mainland, PolyU has established four training bases in Hangzhou, Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Xi'an, which are offering internationalized executive training programmes for managers working for Hong Kong as well as mainland enterprises. The level of these part-time programmes offered varies from Higher Diploma to Master's Degree. By June 2003, the number of students enrolled on award bearing programmes and other short courses run at the four outposts already exceeded 1,850.
PolyU recently celebrated the 5th anniversary of its first teaching outpost―the PolyU-Zhejiang University International Centre for Executive Development ?which has come into operation since 1998 and sent forth 400 of graduates over the years.
Well-attended by some 300 scholars, alumni and students, the anniversary dinner of the Centre was officiated at by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU; Prof. Pan Yunhe, President of Zhejiang University; and Prof. Zhang Junsheng, Chancellor of Zhejiang University in late September.
Addressing the dinner, Prof. Poon said, 'The establishment of this Centre has created a catalyst whereby both universities can apply their synergy to provide courses of international standard for the development of internationally competitive professionals with a global vision.
'I am confident that our mainland alumni will dedicate their knowledge and expertise to the organizations they serve and to the further economic advancement of Hong Kong and our motherland,?he added.
A highlighting celebratory event was a discussion forum chaired by Mr Alexander Tzang, Deputy President of PolyU, in review of leadership and reform in China. Key mainland government officials and academics were invited to join the forum.
Looking ahead, PolyU will continue to develop new opportunities on the mainland to achieve further growth at an even faster pace.
