
[date]2004.06.14[/date]
[title]PolyU names building after philanthropist Choi Kai-yau[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (14 June) celebrated the naming of its 'Choi Kai Yau Building' at a special ceremony held on campus in recognition of Mr Choi Kai-yau and his son Mr Jonathan Choi Koon-shum's longstanding support for education and technology advancement and for PolyU's long-term development.
The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Choi Kai-yau, Founder and Chairman of Sun Wah Group; Mr Jonathan Choi Koon-shum, President of Sun Wah Group; Mr Roy Chung, PolyU Deputy Chairman of Council; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
During the ceremony, Prof. Poon thanked the Choi family for their benevolence and strenuous support for the University over the years. He said, 'Being one of the leading universities offering application-oriented programmes in Hong Kong and the mainland, PolyU will continue to groom professional talents and leaders of tomorrow for the benefits and well being of Hong Kong and our motherland, which is in line with Choi's notions of ‘Technology strengthens the Nation' and nurturing a new generation of well-educated young people.'
Prof. Poon was also impressed by the zeal and dedication of the Choi family to education and charities. Prof. Poon added, 'They are committed to education with a vision.'
Mr Jonathan Choi said, 'PolyU is well-positioned in offering application-oriented programmes. Under the able leadership of its Council and President Prof. Poon, PolyU has achieved remarkable progress in recent years and has nurtured professional talents to serve the society.'
Mr Choi Kai-yau founded Sun Wah Group in 1957 as a seafood processor, wholesaler and distributor. Mr Jonathan Choi succeeded his father as President of the Group in 1982. For more than 40 years, the Group has successfully expanded its businesses in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland, Southeast Asia, North America and Australia. Sun Wah is renowned for its seafood business and the founder is recognized as the 'King of Seafood'. Under the leadership of Mr Jonathan Choi, the Group continued its expansion and diversification. Today, the Group is a diversified conglomerate with businesses in seven principal areas namely seafood and foodstuff, real estate, financial services, infrastructure, technology, media and environmental protection.
In honour of Mr Choi Kai-yau's contribution to education, he was presented the Meritorious Medal of Education by the Chief Executive of the Macau Special Administrative Region and was named an Honorary Citizen of the cities of Zhongshan (Chinese mainland) and Winnipeg (Canada). The Zijinshan Royal Observatory of the Chinese Academy of Sciences also named a minor planet numbered '5389' as 'Choi Kai Yau'.
Following his father, Mr Jonathan Choi has contributed significantly towards education, technology advancement and cultural development in Hong Kong, the mainland, Macau and North America. Mr Jonathan Choi holds many public and community positions including Member of the Committee of Education, Science, Culture, Health and Sports of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and Member of Council or Court of a number of universities in the mainland, Hong Kong and Macau. He has also served as Member of PolyU Council since 2001 and supported the establishment of the Sun Wah-PearL Linux Training and Development Centre, in collaboration with PolyU's Institute for Enterprise, on PolyU campus in 2001. Mr Jonathan Choi has also made a donation in the name of the Sun Wah Hi-Tech Education Foundation to support PolyU's long-term development.
The Choi Kai Yau Building is part of the Professional Complex on PolyU campus. The Complex provides teaching spaces for executives and continuing education students. It also houses the Institute for Enterprise, Centre for Professional and Business English, School of Professional and Executive Development, Hong Kong CyberU and Hong Kong Community College.
