
[date]2003.12.17[/date]
[title]PolyU grooms aces for accounting profession[/title]
While many Jupas applicants are still eagerly competing for a place to study accounting at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Institution's many distinguished graduates have already made their marks in the profession.
To name but a few, these outstanding graduates include Mr Samuel Wong King-on, the first non-European President of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Mr Kwan Chung-pan, the first Hongkonger who scored world honour in ACCA examination last year, and Mr Henry Ngai Wai-tung, a hi-flyer who has been recently named Gold Medalist of ACCA's Top Affiliate.
Mr Samuel Wong, a 1977 graduate, is now Partner of Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants. Having served as Vice President and then Deputy President of ACCA Worldwide during the past two years, he has become the first non-European President to lead this worldwide global professional body which has nearly 300,000 members and students in 160 countries towards its centenary celebrations.
While his illustrious career and his many contributions to the accounting profession have won him many honours, Mr Wong also spares time out of his busy schedule to serve as Adjunct Professor and Honorary Student Mentor for his Alma Mater. He was honoured with the PolyU Outstanding Alumni Award in 2003. In 2002, PolyU accountancy graduate Mr Kwan Chung-pan scored the top mark in ACCA paper "Advanced Taxation" one year after graduation. The examination was taken by 8,000 practitioners from different parts of the world and Mr Kwan is the first candidate from Hong Kong to have won this honour. This year PolyU graduates continue to fare well in ACCA professional examination. While Mr Henry Ngai has been named the Gold Medallist of the Top Affiliates - which means he has obtained the highest aggregated marks for three core papers; his fellow alumnus Miss Elaine Wong Yi Ling also came out as the Hong Kong's top winner in the Paper on 'Strategic Business Planning and Development? The two outstanding performers received their coveted awards at the ACCA Hong Kong Top Achievers Presentation Night in late October. Mr Ngai was immediately taken up by the PricewaterhouseCoopers after graduation, and he also graduated with first-class honour at the University's Ninth Congregation. According to university admission statistics, accounting has been one of the top five popular PolyU programmes among Jupas applicants. As of July 2003, the programme attracted a total of 854 Band A applications - out of which 370 were first choice - for its 207 first-year-first-degree places.
Starting from the 2003/04 academic year, PolyU's undergraduate programmes in accounting and financial services are now offered through its newly established School of Accounting and Finance - a unique entity integrating both disciplines and established following the restructuring of the Faculty of Business.
