
[date]2004.01.08[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to 168 long-serving staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented Long Service Awards to a total of 168 staff members yesterday (8 January 2004), in appreciation of their loyal and committed service over the years.
Among this year's awardees, 46 have served for 25 years, 21 for 20 years and 92 for 15 years ?including teaching, administrative and general staff. In addition, special Long Service Awards were presented to nine staff members who had served PolyU for 30 years or more upon leaving the University. They were invited to return to the University to receive the awards from the President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. The long-serving staff was each presented with a certificate and a souvenir from Prof. Poon as a token of appreciation from the University management.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon said that PolyU regarded people, in particular its quality staff, as the most precious resource and key to the future.
'Our people is our strength. Over the recent years in particular, the University has, in line with our long-term Strategic Plan, progressively implemented a series of actions in nearly all respects ?teaching, research, professional services, continuing education and management upgrade. The delightful result we achieved is recognized not only in the UGC's earlier Management Review, but also in the UGC's latest round of Teaching and Learning Quality Process Review (TLQPR).?br&gt;
In the TLQPR Report, PolyU staff members are regarded as 'generally enthusiastic and are moving toward a culture of learning, via initiatives and innovations associated with student-centred pedagogies.?br&gt;
Prof. Poon expressed his heartfelt gratitude to the dedication and commitment contributed by the staff members. 'The University is deeply grateful to all loyal staff who have spent the prime time of their career life with us. With shared vision and colleagues?continuous support, let us unite together to embrace the challenges ahead.?br&gt;
The Long Service Award Scheme has been introduced since 1990 to foster a sense of belonging among PolyU staff. The award presentation ceremony provides a meaningful gathering for the University to publicly acknowledge the long-serving staff for their years of dedication and devotion.
