
[date]2003.12.09[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold international construction conference[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Florida International University of the United States will jointly hold the Second International Conference on Construction in the 21st Century: Sustainability and Innovation in Management and Technology from 10 to 12 December 2003.
The Conference will bring together leading industry experts and scholars to Hong Kong to discuss issues facing the construction industry in the wake of the 21st Century. Educators, researchers and professionals of the construction industry will carefully examine the techniques and principles that are currently being practised, and develop a vision for further improvement in the future.
During the three-day event, about 120 papers will be presented by representatives in the construction field from all over the world, including Australia, China, Germany, Greece, Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States and Sweden. A wide range of topics will be discussed under four major themes: Construction project management, Cost engineering and financial issues, Information technology and information systems, and Construction technology.
Among the presentations, the keynote speeches will be delivered by four renowned figures in the field: Prof. Michael Anson, Former Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Land Use, will present a paper entitled "Construction Management Research: A Case Example"; Dr Martin H.C. Kwong, Chairman of Scott Wilson Limited, will give a talk on "Sustainable Development in Civil Engineering: The Hong Kong Experience"; Dr Ronald McCaffer, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Leader of Construction Management Group of Department of Civil and Building Engineering, Loughborough University, UK, will talk about "Construction in Transition: Where Are We, and Where Could We Be" and Dr Arthur McInnis, Associate Professor of Law of the University of Hong Kong, will talk about "New Forms of Non-Adversarial Contracting Focusing upon the New Engineering Contract".
The Conference, firstly held in Miami in 2002, was positively received by industry practitioners and professionals. This year, the event is co-organized by the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, Department of Building and Real Estate of PolyU, Department of Construction Management, and Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering of Florida International University.
For further details on the Conference, please visit its official website: http://www.fiu.edu/~citc
Press invitation
Members of the press are welcome to join and cover the Conference. Details are as follows:
Date &amp; Time :
10&amp;11 December 2003 9.00 a.m. -5.00 p.m. 
12 December 2003 9.00 a.m. -12.30 p.m.
Venue:
Sheraton Hong Kong Hotel and Towers
