
[date]2003.10.22[/date]
[title]Three distinguished figures to be conferred honorary degrees by PolyU[/title]
Three leading figures will be conferred Honorary Degrees in the coming Ninth Congregation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 28 November, in recognition of their outstanding achievement and contribution to the community. This year's recipients include Prof. Sir Kumar Bhattacharyya and Mr Raymond Chan for the Honorary Degrees of Doctor of Business Administration, and Dr Stanley Ho for the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Sciences.
A distinguished academic and innovator, Prof. Sir Kumar Bhattacharyya was appointed as the UK's first Professor of Manufacturing in 1980 when he became founder and Director of the now internationally renowned Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) at the University of Warwick.
As a member of the UK Council for Science and Technology, Sir Kumar advises the British Government on major science and technology issues. He has also been an advisor to various governments on industrial policy and made contributions to manufacturing internationally. His achievement has won him many prestigious awards including CBE in 1997. This June, he was awarded knighthood in the Queen's Birthday Honours List.
During his service in WMG, Sir Kumar has started the unique Integrated Graduates Development Scheme which provides advanced training to industry practitioners. In 1990, WMG introduced the scheme to Hong Kong in partnership with PolyU. Since then, the programme has groomed over 1,700 outstanding graduates including Mr Roy Chung, Managing Director of Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd and Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council; Dr Henry Tseng, Managing Director of Kingtronics Holdings (HK) Ltd; Dr Ng Tat-lun, Managing Director (Operations) of Energizer HK Ltd and Deputy Chairman of the Vocational Training Council, to name just a few. In 2000, the programme was further expanded to the Chinese mainland in collaboration with the Chiang Foundation Industrial Training Centre of the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Mr Raymond Chan, Group Chairman and CEO of IDT International Limited, is a leading and highly respected figure in the electronics industry as well as the local business community.
An electronic engineering graduate of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic, Mr Chan embarked on his career as an electronic engineer and started his company, Integrated Display Technology (IDT), in 1977. In about 20 years, IDT has grown from a local manufacturer to a publicly listed enterprise with offices across the world. A pioneer in LCD and microprocessor technology, IDT manufactures a full range of products under the brand name Oregon Scientific.
Despite his busy schedule, Mr Chan contributes much of his time to the developments of trade and his alma mater. He is a member of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council and the Hong Kong Innovation and Technology Commission. Mr Chan is now a Member of the Executive Committee of PolyU Council, an Adjunct Professor of the Institute for Enterprise and Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Electronic and Information Engineering Department. Last year, Mr Chan was conferred the title of University Fellowship by PolyU.
Founder and Group Executive Chairman of Shun Tak Holdings Limited, Dr Stanley Ho, is a household name in Hong Kong and Macau. His business empire engages in shipping, tourism, entertainment, property, finance and aviation, with offices across Hong Kong, Macau, the Chinese mainland, Portugal and other parts of the world.
Aside from his entrepreneurial success, Dr Ho is reputed for his patriotism and dedication to the promotion of prosperity and stability of the two SAR cities. He was a member of the Consultative Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR and Vice President of both the Macau SAR Preparatory Committee and the Macau SAR Basic Law Drafting Committee. Presently he is a Standing Committee member of the 10th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
A devotee to education and community services, Dr Ho is a Founding Member of PolyU Court, a Council and Court Member of The University of Hong Kong and an advisor to the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games Bidding Committee. He also founded the Stanley Ho Astronautics Training Foundation in 1990 and set up the Stanley Ho Training Complex in Heibei in 1993 to nurture aeronautical talents for the Chinese mainland. His unswerving contribution has won him list of honours from local and overseas communities including Gold Lotus Medal of Honour by the Macau SAR Government and GBS by the HKSAR Government.
