
[date]2003.11.23[/date]
[title]Double happiness for PolyU[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) this week will salute some 8,700 graduates in the upcoming Ninth Congregation and the first Graduation Ceremony for its continuing education entities - Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED).
Presided over by Dr Sir Gordon Wu Ying-sheung, Chairman of the University Council, PolyU's Ninth Congregation will be held at the Hong Kong Coliseum on 28 November (Friday). During the ceremony, more than 8,500 postgraduates, undergraduates and sub-degree students will receive their academic awards, of whom 78 will be conferred Doctor of Philosophy and 22 with Doctor of Business Administration. On the same occasion, 26 programmes in the areas of logistics, China business, tourism management, health technology, engineering and Internet technology will send forth their first batch of graduates.
This year, the University will also confer awards to 264 Chinese mainland graduates who have successfully completed 11 PolyU programmes offered in the mainland. A total of 148 will be awarded higher degrees and 116 will be recipients of degree or sub-degree awards. Many of them will make a special trip to Hong Kong to join the ceremony.
On 26 November (Wednesday), HKCC and SPEED will hold its first Graduation Ceremony for the first batch of graduates. During the ceremony, a total of 215 graduates will be conferred the awards of Associate in Business, Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) Certificate, PCE Diploma in Information Technologies for E-Commerce and Executive Diploma in Management Studies. Among them, about 150 are continuing their study in undergraduate programmes while 24 have enrolled in UGC-funded programmes.
The Ninth Congregation will also see the conferment of Honorary Degrees to three distinguished figures including Prof. Sir Kumar Bhattacharyya and Mr Raymond Chan for the Honorary Degrees of Doctor of Business Administration, and Dr Stanley Ho for the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Science.
Founder and Director of the now internationally renowned Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) at the University of Warwick, Prof. Sir Kumar Bhattacharyya was a distinguished academic and innovator and was appointed as the UK's first Professor of Manufacturing in 1980. During his service in WMG, Sir Kumar has started the unique Integrated Graduates Development Scheme which provides advanced training to industry practitioners. In 1990, WMG introduced the scheme to Hong Kong in partnership with PolyU. Since then, the programme has groomed over 1,700 outstanding graduates for the local industries. In 2000, the programme was further expanded to the Chinese mainland in collaboration with the Chiang Foundation Industrial Training Centre of the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Mr Raymond Chan, Group Chairman and CEO of IDT International Limited, is a leader in the electronics industry. A PolyU graduate of the early ?0s, Mr Chan started his company, Integrated Display Technology (IDT), in 1977. In about 20 years, IDT has grown from a local manufacturer to a publicly listed enterprise with subsidiaries across the world. A pioneer in LCD and microprocessor technology, IDT now offers a full range of products under the brand name Oregon Scientific. Despite his busy schedule, Mr Chan contributes much of his time to the developments of trade and his alma mater. He is a member of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, a Member of the Executive Committee of PolyU Council and Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the Electronic and Information Engineering Department.
Dr Stanley Ho Hung-sun, Group Executive Chairman of Shun Tak Holdings Limited, is a legend in the two Special Administrative Regions of China ?Hong Kong and Macau. Making tremendous investment in Hong Kong, Macau and the Chinese mainland, Dr Ho owns an empire covering businesses in shipping, aviation, property, finance, tourism and entertainment. A patriot at heart, Dr Ho served on various consultative and preparatory committees during the sovereignty return of Hong Kong and Macau to China to ensure a smooth transition. Dr Ho is also a strong supporter to education and social welfare. He is a Founding Member of PolyU Court, a Council and Court Member of The University of Hong Kong. In 1990, he founded the Stanley Ho Astronautics Training Foundation and set up the Stanley Ho Training Complex in Hebei a few years later to nurture aeronautical talents for the motherland.
