
[date]2003.07.30[/date]
[title]PolyU licenses K. Wah to put eco-bricks and blocks into market[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and K. Wah Construction Materials Limited (K. Wah) entered into an agreement yesterday (30 July) for commercializing a PolyU technology to produce the eco-bricks and blocks with recycled construction wastes.
Under the new agreement, K. Wah was licensed to make use of the PolyU technology to manufacture, market and distribute these recycled bricks and blocks for the local construction industry. Patent has been registered in Hong Kong for this environmental technology.
The agreement was signed by Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development) and Mr Chan Kai-nang, Managing Director of K. Wah Construction Materials Limited.
"PolyU and K. Wah share a similar vision to serve the industry by continuously introducing innovative and high quality products into the market," said Dr Lui. "The collaboration again demonstrated the University's effort in transferring its application-oriented technology to the market."
Led by Prof. Poon Chi-sun, a Professor at the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, a team of PolyU researchers made use of the recycled construction wastes to produce the new eco-bricks and blocks. Crushed debris and recycled aggregates were collected from public filling areas like Tseung Kwan O and Tuen Mun and the former site of the Kai Tak Airport for the casting of these recycled bricks and blocks.
A series of stringent tests have been conducted on the bricks and blocks to test their compressive strength, transverse strength, drying shrinkage, skid resistance and other durability properties. The team has further combined the use of photo-catalysts and other chemicals with recycled aggregates to make these bricks and blocks able to absorb and remove air pollutants.
These bricks and blocks have been put into trial use in the construction of the pedestrian areas in four different sites, including Housing Authority's Oi Man Estate, Cheung Sha Wan Road, West Rail's Kam Tin Station and a primary school site in Yuen Long.
