
[date]2003.10.21[/date]
[title]PolyU wins US support for collaborative projects[/title]
Backed by strong financial support from the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) and its member organizations, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has embarked on two mammoth research projects in collaboration with the University of Chicago and other renowned institutions in the United States.
These two projects are totally valued at US$2.63m, of which US$950,000 (or 36 per cent of the total budget) will go to PolyU for supporting related research activities. These include a cross-cultural study comparing employers' attitudes towards stigma and urban health in China and the US by Dr Hector Tsang Wing-hong; and a physiological study on glaucoma by optometry expert Dr To Chi-ho. Both academics are Associate Professors from PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences.
According to Dr Tsang, the first study will probe into employers' perception of stigma and urban health associated with behaviorally-driven health disorders, including psychotic disorder, alcoholic abuse and HIV/AIDS. The study is expected to shed light on why employers endorse stigmatizing beliefs about these disorders, and how these attitudes results in withholding job opportunities.
The study will be conducted in Chicago, Beijing and Hong Kong, with a view to comparing the perception and attitudes of employers under different cultural influence. In conducting this study, Dr Tsang will work alongside with world-class experts from the University of Chicago's Centre for Psychiatric Rehabilitation as well as the Chicago Consortium for Stigma Research.
This collaborative project is accorded with a total budget of over US $2.1m, which is jointly provided by the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute of Mental Health and John E. Fogarty International Center.
As for the glaucoma research, Dr To Chi-ho said the study will focus on the physiological mechanism underlying the formation of glaucoma, with special emphasis on the measurement of fluid flow across the ocular ciliary body.
"Glaucoma is a leading cause of visual impairment and blindness in the world. It is usually related to an elevation in intraocular pressure, yet a clear understanding of the physiological mechanism by which the pressure is created remains elusive. So this study will fill a void in our present understanding of glaucoma," he said.
The glaucoma study will be conducted in collaboration with the Department of Ophthalmology of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York.
Established under the US Department of Health and Human Services, the National Institutes of Health is the steward of medical and behavioral research in the country. Apart from operating some 27 institutes and centres across the country, NIH also provides funding for important studies at universities and research instititions.
