
[date]2004.05.24[/date]
[title]PolyU names two lecture theatres after philanthropist Lim Por-yen[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (24 May) named two of its lecture theatres on campus after philanthropist Mr Lim Por-yen in recognition of his longstanding support for the University over the years and his recent donation of $10 million last December to support the University's long-term development.
The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Lim Por-yen, Chairman and Managing Director of Lai Sun Garment; Mr Victor Lo, PolyU Chairman of Council; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Mr Lo, in his address, thanked Mr Lim for his strenuous support for PolyU over the years. 'Mr Lim's donation in particular means a lot to us which had come at a time of need. His continued support signifies his recognition of the University's efforts in providing application-oriented programmes and nurturing professional talents. He also sets a fine example for other business and community leaders to follow.'
Prof. Poon said: 'The PolyU community will continue to do our best in nurturing ‘preferred' graduates as the pillars of tomorrow, which is certainly the best way to express our heartfelt gratitude for Mr Lim's munificent benefaction and support.'
Mr Lim Por-yen, Chairman and Managing Director of the Lai Sun Garment, is the founder of the Lai Sun Group and has been a director of the Company since 1987. Well known as a successful entrepreneur and community leader, Mr Lim is also an honorary citizen of the cities of Guangzhou, Shantou, Xiamen and Zhongshan in the mainland. Mr Lim has also held many public offices in the past decades, such as serving as a Hong Kong Affairs Adviser and a founding member of The Better Hong Kong Foundation.
The Lim Por Yen Lecture Theatres are among the most recently built multi-purpose lecture theatres on PolyU campus, installed with comprehensive audio and visual equipment. The two lecture theatres occupy an area of approximately 300 square metres, with a maximum capacity of 340 seats in total.
