
[date]2004.05.20[/date]
[title]Major internship scheme launched with Jockey Club's support[/title]
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has made a munificent donation of HK$16 million in support of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Summer Internship Programme for Tertiary Students, which opened yesterday (20 May).
Coordinated by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and jointly organized by eight publicly-funded tertiary institutions, this Programme seeks to provide placement opportunities for 1,500 second-year undergraduates from these institutions in three years.
The donation cheque was presented by Mr William Y. Yiu, Executive Director, Charities and Corporate Secretariat of The Hong Kong Jockey Club, during yesterday's ceremony. On behalf of the joint-institutional Management Committee of the Programme, Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU's Vice President (Student Development), expressed profound gratitude to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust whose generous support has made this meaningful Programme a reality. This marked the second donation from the Jockey Club Charities Trust after its $11 million donation in 2000 to support the launch of this programme for its initial three years.
'Successful cases and independent surveys indicated that summer placement is an effective and fruitful training for prospective graduates. In addition to professional knowledge, participating students are rewarded with hands-on experience, up-to-date industry information as well as friendship and social skills. All these not only equip our students with improved ability and personality, but also allow them to bring added values to their future employers,' he added.
This year, about 350 students are expected to work for eight weeks in companies in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, key cities of the Pearl River Delta as well as overseas countries like Australia, the UK, US and Sweden. These companies cover the areas of mass communications, IT and software development, legal, accounting and financial services, steel and biochemistry manufacturing.
A preparatory training programme will be held in early June to prepare these students for their internship. A maximum subsidy of $7,000 and $16,000 will be granted to each student for placement in the Chinese mainland and overseas respectively. The entire project aims at providing 1,500 students with internship experience over three years. Details of the Programme are available at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/sao/jcsip/.
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has long been supportive of various youth development programmes. The sponsorship for this major internship project fits well with the Jockey Club's objective which is to add value where it will provide the greatest benefit to society as a whole.
