
[date]2004.03.14[/date]
[title]PolyU to stage alumni carnival and launch green HK campaign[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) will jointly stage the 'PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival 2004"on campus on 21 March (Sunday) from 12.00 noon to 6.00 p.m.
The opening ceremony of the carnival will kick off with a dragon dance at noon. The ceremony will be officiated at by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Alexander Tzang, Deputy President; and Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President. It will also celebrate the inauguration of FHKPUAA's new Board of Directors (2003-2005) as well as the launch of the campaign 'Greening Hong Kong by PolyU" This unique alumni community project will unite PolyU graduates in an effort to green the city by planting trees not only on PolyU campus, but also in other selected places in Hong Kong.
Also joining the opening as guests-of-honour will be the following recipients of the past Outstanding PolyU Alumni Awards: Dr Rebecca Lee Lok-sze, Mr Humphrey Leung Kwok-wai, Mr Liu Sing-cheong, Mr Freeman Lau Siu-hong, Mr Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, Mr Dennis Chan Shui-lun and Mr Otto Poon Lok-to.
This year, the event will feature for the first time a 'Federation Cup Inter-Alumni Association Soccer Tournament" The seven-a-side soccer game, sponsored by Dr Ng Tat-lun who is also Outstanding PolyU Alumni awardee of 1997, will be held between eight alumni association teams.
Other highlights of the carnival will include horse riding, mini golf, rock climbing and tennis training; postcard making by design alumni and balloon twisting; inflatable bouncers and mini car racing for kids; ice-cream and candy floss booths and lucky draws. A traditional handicraft booth will be set up with the sponsorship of PolyU's School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED).
In addition, participants can tour various PolyU's facilities, including the Pao Yue-Kong Library, Student Halls of Residence, Nanotechnology Centre, Optometry Clinic and Millennium Training Restaurant. A number of sports facilities will also be opened for use for free.
This large-scale, biennial event aims to cultivate close links between the University and its graduates by bringing them back to campus for fun. All graduates of PolyU, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School, are welcome to bring along their families and friends to the carnival to enjoy the games free of charge.
For more details, please visit http://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/alumni/carnival2004 and for enquiries, call the FHKPUAA office on 2766 5123.
In addition, the carnival helps enhance the spirit of unity and teamwork among PolyU's over 30 departmental alumni associations (DAAs) by involving them in the organization of the event.
This event is a major attraction for alumni of the Institution, and the last carnival in 2002 drew more than 9,000 participants to PolyU. Over 200 volunteers from more than 15 DAAs contributed their efforts towards the success of the carnival.
FHKPUAA's new Board of Directors is led by the following five elected officers, in addition to 15 members representing different alumni associations:
President: Dr Ng Tat-lun (Manufacturing and Industrial Engineering Alumni Association)
1st Vice-President: Mr Lam Tai-fai (Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association)
2nd Vice-President: Mr Johnny Fan (HKPU Building Association)
Honorary Secretary: Miss Joanna Lam (Chinese and Bilingual Studies Alumni Association)
Honorary Treasurer: Mr Wilson Wan (Accountancy and Finance Graduates Association)
