
[date]2004.08.02[/date]
[title]PolyU receives donation from Ace Style Intimate Apparel[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) will set up Hong Kong's first 'Institute of Intimate Apparel' with a donation from Ace Style Intimate Apparel Limited.
At a special ceremony held yesterday (2 August) on university campus, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong thanked Mr Andrew Sia, Managing Director of Ace Style Intimate Apparel Limited, for their benefaction and strenuous support for ITC. He said, 'The new Institute will give a strong boost to the development of original brand.'
It is the first time that the company funded an intimate institute in Hong Kong; the previous one was set up in London. The new Institute will support related teaching and research activities and provide practical training opportunity for those who are interested in joining this industry.
Headed by Dr Winnie Yu, Assistant Professor of ITC, the Institute essentially comprises a design studio occupying 120 square meters and equipped with advanced computer systems and special equipment for intimate apparel studies. It will provide a platform to promote exchange between local and overseas experts, support teaching and research related to intimate apparel, and helps provide consultancy services for the industry.
With this substantial donation from Ace Style, ITC is planning to introduce new academic subjects, specialism and expanded elements of intimate apparel in the existing curriculum of both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
ACE Style Intimate Apparel Limited was founded in 1985 by Mr and Mrs Andrew Sia. They are innovative entrepreneurs and renowned for their enthusiasm in manufacturing premium lingerie and nurturing the forthcoming generations. They believe lingerie manufacturing depends greatly on the professional skills of human resources, complimented by the state-of-the-art technology. In view of this, they have incorporated a training course with De Montfort University in UK to provide both financial and material support to youngsters who are interested in this industry. Mr Sia has also initiated the establishment of the Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association whose major objective is to promote learning, research, education and training in the intimate apparel and related industries.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry.
