
[date]2004.03.02[/date]
[title]PolyU promotes green education through community-based project[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology has embarked on a new community-based project by setting up a green farm on a 2,000 square metre of vacant land in Tuen Mun and organizing activities for the promotion of environmental technology and education starting from this March.
With a duration period of three years, the project has received a funding support of $2.5 million from the Quality Education Fund. By targeting at students of five secondary schools in Tuen Mun - representing about 10 per cent of secondary school population in Tuen Mun, the project aims to promote green education through the development of inter-disciplinary syllabus and teaching materials and organization of interactive initiatives.
A highlight of the project is to turn the 2,000 square metre leased land into a sanctuary of green farming, wetland for wastewater treatment and other environmentally friendly activities. The area will be shared among the five schools in Tuen Mun to offer students hands-on experience of growing plants and the process of plant production.
To increase its level of practicality and involvement of the students, the project also plans to set up green facilities such as electricity reduction system, solar panel, sky garden, greenhouse and environmental resource centre within the premises of the five secondary schools. These will help students relate their environmental knowledge to activities in their daily life.
Along with the students, teachers, students' families and friends are also expected to benefit from the project through its series of fun-filled and educational activities namely photo competition, green seminars, design competitions for eco-tour routes, innovative use of land and technology as well as field trips within Hong Kong and to areas in Guangdong and Hangzhou.
Led by PolyU, the meaningful project has gained support from a host of academic and green organizations including: The Green Council, The Hong Kong Institute of Education, N F Y Environmental Technology Limited, Wildlife Conservation Foundation, Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, Zhongshan University in Guangzhou and five local secondary schools namely Baptist Wing Lung Secondary School, CCC Tam Lee Lai Fun Memorial Secondary School, CMA Choi Cheung Kok Secondary School, NLSI Peace Evangelical Secondary School and Stewards MKMCF Ma Ko Pan Memorial College.
Dr Gilbert Chan Yuk-sing, Project Leader and Lecturer from the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, explained why Tuen Mun was chosen for the pilot scheme: "Tuen Mun is an interesting place in terms of both geographical and environmental value. Located at the heart of the northwest New Territories, Tuen Mun and its associated areas house a few green organizations like Mai Po Ramar Site, Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden and Hong Kong Wetland Park. It also encompasses one on-going and two completed landfill sites and the only oil waste recycling plant in Hong Kong."
A strong supporter of environmental protection, PolyU has been offering a number of academic programmes in relations to environmental protection. "It is our aim that through community-based project 'environmental awareness' could be enhanced and 'environmentally-friendly lifestyle' could be further promoted among our youths as well as their neighbours, friends and families," said Dr Chan.
