
[date]2003.09.23[/date]
[title]PolyU receives $45m from Lee Shau Kee Foundation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (23 September) held a special ceremony to acknowledge a generous donation of $45 million from Lee Shau Kee Foundation in support of the University's long term development.
Graced by the presence of Dr Lee Shau Kee, Chairman of Lee Shau Kee Foundation and a Founding Court Member of PolyU, the event saw the presentation of a donation cheque to PolyU Council Chairman Dr Sir Gordon Y.S. Wu and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. By the invitation of Prof. Poon, Dr Lee has instantly increased his donation amount from $42.5 million to $45 million.
Speaking at the ceremony, Sir Gordon thanked Dr Lee for his philanthropic donation which has come at a time of need. 'In the face of budget cut and decreasing government subsidy, PolyU is honoured to be selected a recipient of Dr Lee's benefaction. Under the matching grant scheme set up by the University Grants Committee, the donation will help the University raise another $45 million from the Government ?boosting the benefaction to a total of $90 million.?br&gt;
An internationally-known entrepreneur and a devotee of education, Dr Lee said the donation was recognition of the University's contribution to the community. 'Over the years, the University has groomed more than 200,000 graduates, of which, many have become leaders of their professions.?said Dr Lee. 'I share PolyU's mission of nurturing preferred graduates for society and its outstanding results are evident under the able leadership of Sir Gordon and Prof. Poon.?
On behalf of PolyU, Prof. Poon thanked Dr Lee for his munificent contribution which was the largest amount received since the establishment of the matching grant scheme. 'The donation is an acknowledgment of the hard work of our staff and students. It is also a boost to our efforts to raise fund for the University.?br&gt;
Earlier this month, PolyU started a new campaign to draw support from the friends and alumni of the University, inviting them to join the 'PolyU Privilege Card?programme with a minimum donation of $1,500. The response so far has been encouraging. More fund-raising initiatives are on the way, including the PolyU Celebrity Golf Tournament to be held in November, following last year's success.
Taking his root in Hong Kong, Dr Lee has long supported the education development in Hong Kong and the motherland. Despite his busy schedule, Dr Lee has also served as a Founding Court Member of PolyU and offered his time and advice to the University since 1995. In 1997, Dr Lee was named an Honorary Graduate of PolyU in recognition of his distinguished achievements and contributions to the community
