
[date]2004.04.28[/date]
[title]PolyU plays host to optometry conference[/title]
More than 200 participants from seven Asian countries and territories are drawn to the first Asia Cornea and Contact Lens Conference, which is being held on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 28 to 29 April.
This event is organized by the Hong Kong Society of Professional Optometrics and co-hosted by the Hong Kong Association of Private Practice Optometrists, PolyU, Hong Kong Contact Lens Research Association and the Eye Foundation.
Organized with the objective of advancing contact lens practice, the conference has brought together international and local optometry experts to present their latest research findings. It also provides a forum for clinicians, practitioners, academics and researchers to keep abreast of updated knowledge in this fast-changing field.
During the two-day conference, six PolyU scholars in the fields of optometry and biomedical sciences will present their latest research findings, including a research paper on the contamination of contact lens and related accessories.
This two-year study was conducted by PolyU MPhil student Miss Alice Yung Mo-sze, under the supervision of Associate Professor Dr Pauline Cho, among 80 university students wearing soft contact lenses.
According to this study, micro-organisms were found in 43 per cent of the samples of one or more items (namely lens, lens case, lens care solutions) collected from the subjects; while 27.5 per cent of the subjects owned more than one contaminated items. In some cases, the same micro-organisms could be found in two items.
More detailed analysis showed the highest rate of contamination in the contact lens case (42.5 per cent), followed by lens care solution (18 percent) and the contact lens (10 per cent). Miss Yung said these findings were similar to those reported in other countries.
Contact lens wearers are reminded that it is essential to take proper care of their lenses and accessory items and to replace them at regular intervals. They should also visit a professional optometrist for an eye-examination at least once a year.
