
[date]2003.07.15[/date]
[title]Trees on PolyU campus named after alumni and sponsors[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) recently held a special ceremony for its Tree Sponsorship Campaign and named trees on campus after its alumni and sponsors in recognition of their generous support to the University. 
The Tree Sponsorship Campaign is a fund-raising initiative launched in celebration of PolyU's 65th anniversary in 2002. Apart from the University's alumni, the Campaign also invites participation of staff and students, as well as supporters from the business and industrial sectors. Only with the support from its first batch of sponsors, the Campaign has raised about one million dollars for the University. These sponsors are: 
Alumni/Alumni Associations: 
 Mr Ng Wing-hong, Building alumnus (1939), one of the first graduates of the Government Trade School
 Mr George Ko, Mechanical Engineering alumnus (1960) 
 Mr Shi Kai-biu, Electronic Engineering alumnus (1972 &amp; 1973)
 PolyU (Eastern Canada) Association and PolyU (Western Canada) Association 
Individual/Corporations: 
 Mr Roy Chung, Deputy Chairman of the PolyU Council
 Top Green International Limited (TCBY)
 Lee Kee Group Ltd.
 L.K. Machinery Co., Ltd.
A total of eight trees located in the central area of the university campus have been named after the sponsors. Their names are also engraved on the acknowledgement plates which are specially designed by Design alumnus Mr Freeman Lau and installed beside the trees.
Addressing at the ceremony, the University President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, ‘PolyU is proud to have groomed more than 200,000 alumni for the community over the past 65 years. Many of them have become pillars of society and together they have formed a strong force to drive the advancement of our society. We reckon that the naming of trees on campus after our alumni is a special way to commend their achievements and make them good examples for our students.
‘There are multiple meanings in choosing the symbol of trees. Apart from the belief of grooming talents as manifested in the Chinese saying, 'It takes 10 years to grow a tree but a hundred years to nurture a generation of talent,?trees also remind us the importance of environmental conservation and their roots symbolize the concept of tracing back to one's origin,?he continued.
The success of the Tree Sponsorship Campaign helps foster relationship among members of the PolyU community, strengthen their sense of belonging to the University, and develop closer ties with commerce and industries. Donations raised will be used for the long term development of the University and its students. PolyU invites alumni and members in society to continue to support the Campaign and raise more funds for the future development of the University.
