
[date]2003.01.12[/date]
[title]700 PolyU members join Walks for Millions[/title]
Some 700 members of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) once again showed their commitment to the local community by participating in the Community Chest's Walks for Millions held for the eleventh year yesterday (12 January).
Led by President, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang Hing-chung, Vice Presidents Prof. Leung Tin-pui and Dr Lui Sun-wing, the strong PolyU team ?comprising members from over 40 academic departments, administration offices, students and alumni associations as well as their friends and family members ?set off the Walk after a Starting Ceremony at the Hong Kong Stadium. 
'Over the years, this charitable event has helped foster a strong sense of belonging among PolyU members and provided an excellent opportunity for us to show our concern for the needy. It is the eleventh consecutive year that our University has participated in this meaningful activity and I am pleased that PolyU members have continuously given their support to this university-wide event,?said Prof. Poon.
Donation raised from this walk will be used to provide services for the disabled through The Chest's social welfare agencies and service units. During the walk, the PolyU team put on the specially designed windbreaker and cap as team uniform, Asia Pacific Catering Corporation Limited again generously provided free catering services in support of the University's participation.
Last October, in celebration of the University's 65th Anniversary, 11,273 PolyU members and their companions formed the world's largest Human Rainbow at the Hong Kong Stadium. Apart from breaking the world record, the event successfully raised $1.8 million for the University and two local charities - Children's Cancer Foundation and The Hong Kong Society for the Aged.
PolyU has participated in the Walks for Millions since 1993, and raised more than $200,000 in last year's Walk. Over the past 10 years, over 7,300 PolyU members have participated in the Walk and raised more than $2 million for the Chest.
