
[date]2003.06.12[/date]
[title]PolyU makes great strides in modernizing Chinese medicine[/title]
With the support of famous Chinese medicine practitioner Dr Li Fu-ren, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has launched the first health product 'Immune Plus?through its Pearl Modern TCM Research Ltd, making great strides in promoting the modernization of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).
Speaking at a press briefing, PolyU Vice President Dr Lui Sun-wing said the University is working in collaboration with Beijing Hospital's Professor and Chief TCM Physician Dr Li Fu-ren in promoting modernization of TCM. Dr Li is regarded by the Ministry of Health's Beijing Hospital as one of the top five physicians in China.
The University's Director of Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, who is also a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), told the press that the Institute will seek to develop new ways of producing TCM-based health products using world-class facilities at the University's research laboratories in Shenzhen.
Backed by expert support from Dr Li Fu-ren, the Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine has successfully developed its first health product 'Immune Plus? This new product is based on the formula of the 'Yu Ping Fung Powder? a famous Chinese medicine prescription known for being able to enhance the human body's immune system and lung functions and thus help build up defence against infectious diseases such as SARS.
According to Prof. Chan, the Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine and the Institute of Materia Medica offer new biological, chemical and pharmaceutical technology and world-class laboratory facilities. These facilities can effectively support research on pharmaceutical products and modern Chinese medicine. In addition, they can help develop high-quality health products for the international market.
The Institutes?wide range of research activities include the development of new formulation for TCM-based health products and medicine; application of advanced technology in TCM research; application of green technology for Chinese medicinal plants production; DNA chips and proteomic research; and application of biotechnology and debulking technology in Chinese medicine production.
Situated at the Shenzhen High-tech Industrial Park, the over 2,000-square-metre Institutes consist of several laboratories equipped with the state-of-the-art instruments. The Institute is home to the Open Laboratory of Chirotechnology, SPF- (Specific Pathogen Free) Standard Animal Laboratory, GMP- (Good Manufacturing Practice) Standard Formulation Laboratory, DNA Chips Laboratory, and other laboratories for TCM (Traditional Chinese Medicine) pharmacology, TCM chemistry, toxicology and molecular pharmacology.
The two Institutes operate under the PolyU Shenzhen Research Institute, which is a conglomeration of research centres and training facilities. In addition to these two Institutes, it also comprises the China Accounting and Finance Research Centre, Hong Kong Young Industrialists Council Executive Training Centre, and the MIC Multimedia Technologies Ltd. The Shenzhen Research Institute helps the University boost its research and professional services and develop high technology in collaboration with mainland scientists and researchers.
