
[date]2003.01.15[/date]
[title]PolyU offers 300 professional education courses[/title]
A wide selection of courses offered by the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), starting school from January to June 2003, is now open for application.
This year, a total of 309 courses will be offered on a more comprehensive and extensive scale. Some 182 courses, many of which offered under the Credit Accumulation Mechanism, have been included in the list of 'reimbursable courses?under the Continuing Education Fund, covering such areas as China business, design, financial services, logistics and supply chain management, language and tourism.
In a constant effort to improve their services, Dr Anthony Tam, Director of SPEED, said: 'We have put in place an integrated quality assurance framework to help improve the learning and teaching processes at our School. We have also introduced the programme management committees and student feedback survey to facilitate continuous improvement on our programmes.?br&gt;
The Prospectus produced by the School provides detailed information on its programmes, including award-bearing ones. They include full-time Associate Degree Scheme by the Hong Kong Community College and 23 part-time programmes offered by SPEED in the areas of business administration, financial management, human resource management, industrial management, service management, multimedia and information technologies, marketing, logistics and supply chain management, and public health. Among them, seven are new programmes leading to overseas academic awards at Bachelor's and Master's degree levels. These programmes are offered in collaboration with renowned overseas universities such as Heriot-Watt University, University of London and Northumbria University of the United Kingdom; University of Alberta of Canada; and University of Western Sydney of Australia.
Copies of the Prospectus can be collected at the School of Professional Education and Executive Development, Room QR802 (8th Floor), Core R, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon. Limited copies are also obtainable from District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
Applicants can also obtain application information through the following:
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (for professional and education programmes)
Tel: 3400 2828 (during office hours)
Fax: 2363 0540
Email: speed@polyu.edu.hk
24-hour hotline: 2766 6666
Hong Kong Community College (for Associate Degree programmes)
Tel: 3400 2868 (during office hours)
Fax: 2994 8721
Email: ccoffice@polyu.edu.hk
