
[date]2003.03.14[/date]
[title]Hospitality experts give debut workshop in Shanghai[/title]
At the invitation of the Shanghai Municipal Tourism Administrative Commission, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's (PolyU) School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM) has recently held a two-day workshop on conference, exhibition and incentive management for senior executives of the city.
More than 80 participants of local hospitality industry were attracted to the intensive workshop, which was conducted by Prof. Kaye Chon, Head of HTM, and many leading Hong Kong experts in the field.
"Shanghai has started to make a name for itself in organizing large-scale events such as the Fortune Forum and APEC. The upcoming World Expo to be held in 2010 is another example demonstrating the city's growing importance as a venue for major conferences in the region," said Prof. Chon.
"This workshop has therefore provided a valuable opportunity for industry personnel to exchange their views and experience in organizing large-scale events, and to keep the participants abreast of latest development in the industry."
In addition to Prof. Chon, other prominent speakers like Prof. Amy Chan, Honorary Professor of HTM; Mr. Jacques Arnoux, Chairman of Pacific World Ltd; Ms Esther Ho, General Manager, Meeting Planners International (HK) Ltd; and Mr Addison Wong, Director of Marketing, Renaissance Yangtze Shanghai Hotel, were invited to speak at the workshop.
The workshop covered various important aspects of conference management, including how to organize a world-class event; quality service in MICE (meeting, incentive, convention, and exhibition) industry; how to exceed client's expectation in international corporate meeting and incentive travel management, and how Shanghai can develop its international MICE market business.
This event has been made possible with the support of the Shanghai Tourism Training Centre, as well as the generous sponsorship of Dragonair and Shanghai's Hua Ting Hotel and Towers.
