
[date]2003.03.07[/date]
[title]PolyU Celebrity Golf Tournament raises fund on the green[/title]
Driven by the passion for golf, more than 100 local business and community leaders gathered at the Hong Kong Golf Club to take part in the first Celebrity Golf Tournament held by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 28 February.
Tee-off by Mrs Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai, Honorary Chairperson of the Tournament, the game was played in the Texas Scramble format. A total of 27 teams participated in the game, including celebrities of various professions: Mr Raymond Or Ching-fai, General Manager of HSBC, Dr Patrick Fung Yuk-bun, Chairman and Chief Executive of Wing Hang Bank, Dr Lo Ka-shui, Deputy Chairman and Managing Director of Great Eagle Holdings Limited, Mr Raymond Chan, Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IDT International Limited, Mr Kenneth Lam, Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Mr Joseph Lo, Partner of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, to name just a few.
Apart from promoting friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, a major aim of the Tournament was to raise fund for the University. More than HK$500,000 was raised from the event, either in the name of individual or team sponsorship. All proceeds would go to PolyU's Development Fund and Student Development Fund to support the University's long-term development as well as the all-round development of the students.
Dr. Patrick Fung Yuk-bun, Chairman of the Organizing Committee said, 'In view of the changing landscape in the higher education sector, PolyU relies greatly on the support from our friends and partners in the private sector in realizing our worthy vision for the good of the community and our nation.? 
After hours of swinging, hitting and putting, participants put on show their talents on the course which was usually unnoticed in the corporate boardroom. The overall championship finally went to Playmates Holdings Limited while the first and second runner-up of the team went to HSBC and Fuji Xerox (HK) Ltd. respectively.
Organizing committee of the Tournament also thanked all sponsoring parties for making the event a success. These sponsoring companies included Wing Hang Bank Ltd., Mercedes-Benz China Ltd., Virgin Atlantic Airways, China Hotel by Marriott, Citibank N.A., PricewaterhouseCoopers and all other participating teams.
