
[date]2005.06.30[/date]
[title]SPEED invites applications for professional education programmes[/title]
A wide array of quality programmes and courses offered by the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), starting from July 2005, is now open for application.
In the new academic year 2005/06, a total of 28 award-bearing programmes leading to awards of PolyU-SPEED and overseas universities will be offered. To open up more education opportunities for holders of Higher Diploma and Associate Degree, the School will offer three new top-up Bachelor's degree programmes in Applied Sociology, Bilingual Communication and Business with specialisms in Finance and International Business. At the same time, Executive Diploma in Human Resource Management catered for professional advancement of human resource practitioners will also be introduced.
Dr Dennis Chan, Acting Director of SPEED, said, 'Learning has become increasingly important to people from all walks of life: be it fresh graduates of sub-degree programmes in pursuit of higher qualification, or working adults who aspire to professional enhancement. With this in mind, we have taken initiatives to expand the range of programmes available for learners with different needs.' 
Over 100 short courses will also be offered, ranging from business services, creative and design, financial services, logistics and supply chain management to language and tourism. Many of them are listed as 'reimbursable courses' under the Continuing Education Fund.
To allow more flexibility for the learners, SPEED introduced a unique Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) in 2000 to enable learners to study at their own pace and accumulate credits which are valid for lifetime. So far, over 8,000 learners have registered under CAM. 
For a copy of the Prospectus, please visit the SPEED office located at Room QR802, 8/F, Core R, PolyU. Limited copies are also obtainable from the District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
Opening hours of SPEED are:Mondays to Fridays:	8:30 am -7:00 pmSaturdays:	9:00 am -12:00 noonSundays and Public Holidays:	ClosedEnquiry: 	3400 2828	 
