
[date]2005.06.28[/date]
[title]PolyU-HKCyberU launches HK's first Master of Security Management[/title]
Long famous as an international centre in shipping, logistics, trade and exhibition and in view of the upcoming Sixth WTO Ministerial Conference in December, Hong Kong faces a pressing demand for trained security professionals. In this connection, Hong Kong CyberU (HKCyberU), the online education arm of PolyU, takes the lead in joining hands with Edith Cowan University (ECU) of Australia to launch Hong Kong's first Master of Security Management. 
The Programme is the only one of its kind in Asia, targeting for middle and senior levels of security professionals in the fields of aviation, transportation, retail and facilities management, crisis management and security consultancy services. With an aim to provide an in-depth and comprehensive training, the Programme covers a range of subjects including physical security, intrusion detection systems, maritime and aviation security, trade and commerce security and security technology and so on.
Ms Pamela Lam, General Manager of HKCyberU said, 'To meet the need of the local market, HKCyberU will invite industry professionals, such as former members of the police force, to conduct face-to-face tutorials by sharing their experience and local cases in security management to help learners put the theories into practice.'
Applicants are required to hold an undergraduate degree from a recognized institution, or have significant industry experience. Majority of the study materials will be delivered online, complemented by block classroom-based lectures by ECU faculty members. Consisting of 10 modules, the Programme can be completed in 2.5 or 3 years of part-time study. Successful graduates will be awarded the Master of Security Management by ECU.
ECU is a global leader in security management education. During the past 12 years, the University has offered training to governments and private institutions around the world including the Western Australia Police, Emirates Airlines, Singapore Airport Terminal Services and the Swiss Army. 
Prof. Narayanan Srinivasan who is an international security expert and Professor of Security and Risk of ECU has also made a special trip to Hong Kong to host an information session for the new Programme. Details are as follows:
Date:	 30 June 2005 (Thursday)Time:	 7 pmVenue:	 M104, Li Ka Shing Tower, PolyUInterested parties should call 2882 0811 or send an email to enquiry@hkcyberu.com for reservations.  The Programme is scheduled to commence on 1 August and deadline for application is 10 July.  For more information, please visit website: www.hkcyberu.com.
