
[date]2003.01.24[/date]
[title]PolyU invites applications for undergraduate &amp; sub-degree programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is now inviting applications for its 2003/04 full-time and part-time Bachelor's Degree and sub-degree programmes. This year, a total of 68 full-time and 36 part-time programmes are open for applications. Admission of the full-time courses for this round is only open to non-JUPAS applicants applying with qualification other than the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE). In addition, a series of taught postgraduate programmes will be open for applications from 7 February.
'Being a key educator for the local industries, PolyU has long been putting effort in developing programmes to support the pillar industries, that is, financial services, logistics, tourism and auxiliary services to business and trade,?said President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. 
In recent years, the University has received record-breaking applications for programmes of accountancy, management, business studies, hotel, catering and tourism management as well as international shipping and transport logistics.
Apart from these popular subjects, the University also provides a wide range of academic programmes, ranging from engineering to business administration, fashion and design, social work and various healthcare studies. All programmes are professionally run by its 26 academic departments, operated under six flagship faculties.
Deadline for sending in applications for the full-time and part-time programmes is 24 February and 3 March respectively. More programme information or application materials can be obtained via:
?PolyU's website at www.polyu.edu.hk/admission for downloading application form and 'Guide for Applicants?as well as on-line application;
?Enquiry hotline at 2333 0600 for programme information only;
?Email to asadmft@polyu.edu.hk for full-time Bachelor's Degree and sub-degree programmes;
?Email to asadmpt@polyu.edu.hk for part-time Bachelor's Degree and sub-degree programmes; 
?Postage to Admissions and Promotions Section, Academic Secretariat, PolyU, Hung Hom, Kowloon; or
?In person to our Academic Secretariat Podium Office (Room AG205) on PolyU campus (Opening hours: Monday to Friday, 9 am to 5 pm [closed at 4 pm on 30 January]; Saturday, 9 am to noon and closed on Sunday and public holidays).
Renowned for its application-oriented programmes and strong ties with business and trade, PolyU takes pride in its students whom are deemed 'graduates of the highest practical value?in the eyes of the employers. Currently PolyU is the largest tertiary institution in Hong Kong in terms of its total student population. In 2002/03, the total enrolment on PolyU programmes funded by the University Grants Committee is 16,044, including 11,108 full-time and 4,936 part-time students.
