
[date]2003.01.17[/date]
[title]PolyU recruits overseas students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is inviting overseas applications to its undergraduate programmes for the 2003/04 academic year. International Student Scholarships, with a maximum subsidy of HK$270,000 (US$34,500) for each student over three years, will be awarded to outstanding overseas students.
'Being a reputable university, PolyU is best known for its high practicality and strong network with business and industry,?said Prof. Philip Yeung Kwok-wing, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU. 'Currently the University provides a wide range of academic programmes, ranging from engineering to business administration, fashion and design, social sciences and various healthcare studies. All programmes are professionally run by PolyU's 26 academic departments, operated under six core faculties.?br&gt;
Using English as its formal medium of instruction, PolyU is committed to promoting the culture of biliteracy and trilingualism. Students are widely exposed to the Chinese culture and its society ?a way to prepare them for the emerging opportunities in China.
'With China's accession to the WTO [World Trade Organization], Hong Kong has increasingly taken up the role as gateway to China,?added Prof. Yeung. 'Through various exchange and placement programmes, students will be able to gain knowledge on the cultural, economic and social aspects of China. Having the chance to study in Hong Kong certainly creates a competitive edge for the student's future career.?br&gt;
Applicants are expected to attain good results in relevant university entry examinations or successful completion of the first year study of any recognized degree programme. Final year high-school students are also welcome to apply. Conditional offer would be granted subject to shortlisted applicants?final academic results.
With the opening of the new Student Halls of Residence in summer 2002, PolyU has put in place a guaranteed accommodation policy for all overseas students to ensure them a holistic and dynamic campus life. They also enjoy the same benefits as local students by paying the government-funded tuition. International students with outstanding achievements are encouraged to apply for the PolyU International Student Scholarships in support of their tuition fees and living expenses.
In line with the University's objective in promoting internationalization as set out in its Strategic Plan for 2001 to 2007, the University has taken an active role in recruiting non-local students. Over the past few years, the University has recorded an ever increasing number of non-local students.
Deadline for application for the academic year of 2003/04 is 9 March 2003. Application forms are obtainable from the Academic Exchange and Collaboration Office (by fax: 852-23339974 or email: oastudy@polyu.edu.hk). Detailed information on either PolyU or any specific programme can be found on web site: http://www.polyu.edu.hk .
