
[date]2003.03.16[/date]
[title]PolyU sends forth elite students for CX "I Can Fly" Programme[/title]
Renowned for its close ties with trade and business, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to be the sole university partner in Cathay Pacific (CX) 'I Can Fly?community programme, with its elite students being selected as student coordinators.
A total of 1,000 secondary school students and 40 PolyU students have been recruited for this meaningful programme. These students, under the guidance of CX pilots, are divided into groups to take part in a series of aviation activities and social service programmes from March 2003 to January 2004.
PolyU students of various academic interests - ranging from nursing to business studies, rehabilitation sciences, industrial and systems engineering, hotel and tourism management, and Chinese and bilingual studies - have been selected after rounds of stringent assessment. They all share a common passion for social service and aviation.
Throughout the programme year, these PolyU students are required to serve as a bridge between the programme members and the CX pilots by channelling through information and providing support, direction and mentorship to their programme members.
Various training sessions have been arranged by CX to equip PolyU students with the necessary skills and knowledge for challenges in the coming year. In addition to aviation-related training such as visits to the Hong Kong International Airport, Air Traffic Control Tower, Government Flying Services and SuperTerminal 1, CX will also organize a special training session on volunteering and social servicing, conducted by experienced social workers of the Social Welfare Department.
PolyU's participation in the CX programme is another example of its strong relationship with trade and business. In line with its strategic objective of nurturing ‘preferred graduates?for the community, PolyU has long been making efforts to train students in both professional competency as well as their insight into leadership, global outlook, social and national responsibility.
Since 2001, PolyU has launched a large scale training programme namely 'Leadership and Competence for Success?to foster students?personal development and team spirit through intensive training activities. Self-initiated projects led by the Social Service Group of the Students?Union and individual academic departments have also been run regularly to broaden students?exposure and make contributions to the community.
