
[date]2005.07.07[/date]
[title]Agreement Signing Ceremony between CII-HK and PolyU for Research on Best Practices in Managing Specialist Sub-contracting Performance[/title]
Researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are embarking on a research project on 'Best Practices in Managing Specialist Sub-contracting Performance', backed by the funding support from the Construction Industry Institute ' Hong Kong (CII-HK).
To mark the commitment of both sides to this project, the two parties entered into a research agreement at a signing ceremony held at PolyU yesterday (7 July). The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Yue Chi-hang, Director of Architectural Services, Architectural Services Department of the HKSAR Government. The agreement was signed by Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU's Vice President (Research Development) and Mr Tsang Chiu-kwan, Member of the Executive Board of CII-HK.
Expressing grateful appreciation to CII-HK for funding the research, Prof. Ko said: 'PolyU and CII-HK share a common concern for problems arising from the multi-layer subcontracting arrangement which is a normal practice in the local construction industry. We both recognize that a comprehensive research and mitigation measures are required to address the issue.'
CII-HK is a collaborative research institute between academia and the construction industry. Proposals on projects are received from local and international research institutions. A Research Task Force has been set up to monitor the performance and to provide assistance to the research team in carrying out the project. This Task Force headed by Mr Tsang Chiu-kwan comprises representatives from relevant sectors of the construction industry.
The one-year study aims at identifying the best practices in managing subcontractors for specialist works in buildings so as to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the local construction industry. It will identify the key problems that affect regulation, procurement and coordination of specialist subcontractors. The study result will enable developers to implement effective management of specialist subcontractors.
The research team is led by Prof. Francis Yik Wai-hung, Professor of Building Services Engineering (BSE), in collaboration with Mr Joseph Lai Hung-kit, Lecturer of BSE and Dr Edward C. Y. Yu, Associate Professor of Building and Real Estate.
