
[date]2003.02.07[/date]
[title]PolyU launches interactive website to enhance teaching and learning[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently launched an interactive website entitled Learning-to-Learn - www.polyu.edu.hk/learn-to-learn - to provide on-line support for both academics and students to further enhance the effectiveness of the teaching and learning process.
Led by the Educational Development Centre, this innovative project was one of the seven PolyU projects sponsored by the Teaching Development Grants of the University Grants Committee (UGC) in 1999 and received an award of 3.42 million. The Website, as well as the on-line materials, was one of the many deliverables made by a project team formed by representatives from 10 academic departments.
Consisted of a Teachers?site and a Students?site, the Learning-to-Learn website is open to all students and teachers of UGC-funded universities in Hong Kong. The Students?site which contains materials on motivational, cognitive and interpersonal aspects of learning, serves to maximize students?learning abilities and to develop attributes of self-regulated learners. Useful student handbooks and videos are also available on-line.
Information of the Teachers?site is grouped under various themes to address concerns of the teachers. Ready-to-use materials including teacher guides can be obtained from the website to integrate learning resources into teaching. Teachers are also encouraged to share their experiences with counterparts on the website.
Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President (Student and Staff Development) said, 'In line with the University's strategic objective in developing all-round students, the Learning-to-Learn website aims to raise awareness of learning and to facilitate communications among university teachers so as to benefit students. This is also a way to help tackle the challenges faced by both students and teachers with an increased emphasis being placed on self-learning and life-long education in tertiary education.?
To ensure practicality and effectiveness, the University has adopted a phased approach in the conceptualization of the Website and its materials. Thorough investigation has been conducted for data collection, problem identification and development of appropriate learning methodologies. Workshops and short courses have also been held for PolyU students and teachers during the implementation and evaluation stage. Officially launched on 27 January 2003, the Website has received positive feedback from the users.
