
[date]2003.07.07[/date]
[title]PolyU honours winning secondary school teams in E-Shop Competition[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) honoured eight secondary school teams which had excelled in the "Project-based Teamwork Game in E-Commerce: E-Shop Competition" in an award presentation ceremony held on campus yesterday (7 July). The winning teams were:
Junior section (Form 1 - Form 3 students):
Champion, The Best Design &amp; The Best Report - Madam Lau Kam Lung Secondary School of MFBM
First Runner-up - Ning Po No.2 College 
Second Runner-up - Kau Yan College 
Senior section (Form 4 ?Form 7 students):
Champion - Diocesan Girls?School 
First Runner-up - TWGHs Wong Fut Nam College 
Second Runner-up - Tin Ka Ping Secondary School 
The Best Design - Caritas St. Joseph Secondary School 
The Best Report - STFA Leung Kau Kui College 
Prof. Wong Po-choi, Steering Committee Member of the Quality Education Fund (QEF), and Prof. Li Chung-lun, Acting Dean of the University's Faculty of Business and Information Systems, also joined the ceremony to congratulate the winners.
The competition was inaugurated by PolyU's Department of Management in 2001 with the funding support by QEF. It was especially designed for all full-time secondary school students with aims to promote e-commerce education among them, to encourage learning of e-commerce concepts through games, and to develop their innovativeness and creativity in a technologically-advanced and knowledge-based society.
The response to the E-Shop Competition was overwhelming, a total of 47 teams from 39 local schools took part in the competition. The participating teams were required to submit a business plan, design an E-Shop with on-line shopping features, and conclude their work in an evaluation report. Workshops and on-line tutorials on how to design web pages were provided to students by PolyU. Students were also guided by their advisors and teachers throughout the design process. Both teachers and students expressed that they had learned a lot about e-commerce through participating in the competition.
The students' works were of high quality and they were screened by the seven-member Panel of Judges (in alphabetical order) including:
Mr Chow Pat-kan, Senior Curriculum Development Officer (Technology Education), Education Department, HKSAR Government 
Dr Franklin Lam Sze-sing, Assistant Professor, School of Business and Administration, The Open University of Hong Kong 
Dr James Law Tang-fai, Managing Director, Pricerite Group Ltd. 
Mr Ng Hok-ling, Chairman, The Hong Kong Association for Computer Education 
Dr Eric Ngai Wai-ting, Associate Professor, Department of Management, PolyU 
Mr Sin Chung-kai, Legislative Councillor (IT)
Mr Andy Wu An, Director for IT, Business Development, China Resources Logistics Ltd. 
