
[date]2003.06.24[/date]
[title]Nano-tech breakthroughs for high-quality facemask[/title]
Textile scientists at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have achieved breakthroughs in nanotechnology and licensed the use of their new technology to a Hong Kong-based medical products manufacturer for producing high-quality facemasks on a massive scale.
At a signing ceremony held on the University campus (on 24 June), the pact was signed between PolyU Vice President Dr Lui Sun-wing and Mr Raymond Or Kwok-yin, Managing Director of Winner Medical &amp; Textile (HK) Ltd.
Under this agreement, this company which specializes in medical products will be authorized to employ PolyU-developed "Nano Anti-microbial Surface Deposition" technology to produce nano-treated facemasks in the next few years for the markets in Hong Kong, the Chinese Mainland and overseas countries.
Speaking at the ceremony, Dr Lui said not only has this fruitful collaboration illustrated PolyU's strength in applied researches, but it has also highlighted the importance of academia-industry partnership in transferring knowledge for daily use.
According to the Principal Investigator Dr Li Yi, Associate Professor of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, the University has filed a patent application for "Nano Broad-spectrum Anti-microbial Materials and Surface Deposition Methods."
He further explained that since the outbreak of SARS in Hong Kong, his research team has thoroughly investigated the function of facemasks and protective clothing. Through the application of nano-materials and advanced functional clothing design technology, they have developed a series of facemasks and protective clothing to provide better protection for frontline healthcare workers.
Nano-treatment can be applied to the production of different models of facemasks such as N95 and surgical masks. Facemasks treated with special nano-anti-microbial materials have the following characteristics:
nano-treated facemasks produced are truly waterproof in all layers to stop the absorption and penetration of bacteria and viruses through capillary action; 
these facemasks can inactivate a broad spectrum of bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus and E. Coli;
experiments proved that this kind of nano-treated facemask can be worn for a longer time while carrying less odour in comparison to untreated facemask.
experiment results also showed that wearers found the nano-treated facemask more comfortable, and they could breathe easier using this kind of mask.
PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing is a pioneer in applying nanotechnology in the textile industry. More recently, it has been awarded a $14.7 m grant by the SAR Government's Innovation and Technology Fund to support the establishment of a Nanotechnology Centre for the industry in Hong Kong.
