
[date]2003.01.10[/date]
[title]PolyU welcomes additional 1,000 student placements from the Chinese mainland[/title]
A total of 29 organisations in Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and Nanjing entered agreement with The Hong Kong Polytechnic University yesterday (10 January) as partner companies of PolyU's ‘Preferred Graduate?Development Programme (PGDP). These organisations are expected to offer over 1,000 placements to PolyU students in the next three years.
During the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong expressed gratitude to the newly joined partner companies, 'Your great support does not only benefit our students, but also provides a strong impetus to the University. It represents the confidence of the community in our students and our ‘Preferred Graduate?Development Programme.?br&gt;
Together with the signing ceremony, an open forum entitling 'Ensuring Hong Kong's success in the International Arena?was also held. Two prominent figures, Dr Eden Woon, CEO of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, and Mr Joseph Lo, Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and Council Treasurer of PolyU, shared their views on challenges ahead and the synthesis between China and Hong Kong in the WTO era.
Launched in 1997, PGDP aims to enhance students market value by providing them on-job working experience before graduation. With the support of over 700 partner companies and supporting organisations from the Chinese mainland, North and South America, Europe and Australia, more than 3,200 PolyU students have benefited from the Programme. Some students have become permanent staff of their host companies upon graduation.
The Programme is successful in deepening students?understanding of the workplace of their profession as well as exposing them to various cultures and establishing their own networks.
The PolyU interns come from a wide range of academic disciplines, from accountancy to civil engineering, design, textiles and clothing, hotel and tourism management, nursing and optometry. They are sent to work in various local and overseas enterprises and multinational companies.
Under the agreement, PolyU will provide partner companies each year with an agreed number of students in specific disciplines. Based on the requirements of the companies, PolyU will conduct a screening exercise among its full-time, non final-year undergraduate students to select suitable trainees for the partner companies.
