
[date]2003.02.24[/date]
[title]Expert gives talk on Mars Express Mission[/title]
At the invitation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Mr Shaun Whitehead, chief engineer in developing the Beagle 2 Lander instrument package (PAW) on the robotic arm of the European Space Agency's (ESA) Mars Express Mission, yesterday (24 February) delivered a seminar on the design of the Beagle2 Mars Lander at the Institution.
He also presented a souvenir, on behalf of the Beagle 2 Lander team, to PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong in recognition of the University's contribution to ESA Mars Mission through developing the innovative rock sampling tool Mars Rock Corer. A letter of appreciation from the Mission Manager Dr Mark Sims was also presented to the Hong Kong team comprising Dr Ng Tze-chuen, Prof. Yung Kai-leung, Mr Yu Chun-ho and Mr Chan Chiu-cheung for their contributions.
Delighted with this honour, Prof. Poon said, 'PolyU is proud to have the opportunity to contribute to this historic mission through developing and manufacturing the rock sampling tools for the expedition to help unlock the mystery of exobiology on the planet Mars.?br&gt;
Speaking at the seminar, Mr. Whitehead said the Beagle2 Lander carrying the Hong Kong-made rock sampling tools onboard will be launched on 23 May 2003. The Lander will be carried by Russian-made rocket and depart from Kazakhtan.
If Beagle 2 lands on the surface of Mars on schedule (on 2003 Boxing Day), the Rock Corer will be the first instrument made by local Chinese to touch the soil of a planet outside the Earth. 'This is indeed a great honour not only for PolyU and Hong Kong, but also for all Chinese people,?Prof. Poon said.
The Mars Rock Corer is a multifunctional tool which can be used to grind, drill, core and grip rock samples, with a low energy consumption of two watts, a small size and weighting only 370 gm. The Mars Rock Corer is now fully tested and successfully integrated with the Lander. The Lander is now closed and sealed from earth contamination, and is being integrated with the orbiter.
In order to let Hong Kong people have a glimpse of this innovative design and the high technology involved, a model of the Beagle 2 Lander is due to arrive at the University in March. An exhibition on the Mars Express Mission and the functionality of the Lander will be held at PolyU in March.
The development of the Mars Rock Corer and its predecessor the Space Holinser Forceps has come a long way. The Holinser Forceps, originated from a piece of dentist equipment, are jointly developed by PolyU researchers from a concept initiated by Hong Kong inventor and dentist Dr Ng Tze-chuen.
The project is led by Dr Ng; Prof.Yung Kai-leung of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering; Mr Yu Chun-ho, Engineer of the Industrial Centre; and Mr Chan Chiu-cheung, an independent engineer. Their work is supported by the Industrial Centre under the directorship of Dr Chris Wong Ho-ching. The team has the honour of having Prof. Yang Chen-ning, Nobel Laureate in Physics, as the project advisor.
In 1995, four sets of Holinser Forceps were ordered by the Russian Space Agency for precision soldering on the then MIR space station. Following its initial success, the team developed the sophisticated device for further use as the Mars Rock Corer, thus leading to Hong Kong's involvement in the Mars Express Mission.
In 2001, this innovative, Hong Kong-made space tool captured a gold medal in the Brussels Eureka, which was also called the 50th World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technologies. The same project team received the 1010 Award for Innovation in the Leader of the Year 2000 awards organized by the Sing Tao Group, and 'The Most Innovative Award?in the Election of 10 Engineering Wonders in Hong Kong organized by the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers in 1999.
