
[date]2003.05.13[/date]
[title]PolyU and Tsinghua launch IT Contest for students in Greater China[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has launched an 'IT Contest for Greater China 2003?for tertiary students in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland. The Contest, organized together with Tsinghua University, Cheng Kung University of Taiwan, University of Macau and Beijing-Hong Kong Academic Exchange Centre, has received overwhelming response. Over 400 tertiary institutions from all over the Greater China regions, including Peking University, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Fudan University, Zhongshan University, Taiwan University, have already enrolled in this contest.
IT Contest for Greater China 2003 (for Tertiary Students)
The Contest comprises an individual contest and an inter-institutional team contest, with prize awards totaling over HK$100,000. The Contest is now open for registration on the Web until 31 May 2003. The best five teams will be invited to attend the final competition and a 'Greater China Tertiary Students Exchange Programme?to be held at PolyU this summer. As the hosting institution, PolyU will also field one team in the final in accordance with international practice.
Mr Richard Li, Director of Information Technology Services of PolyU said, 'The IT Contest provides an opportunity for tertiary students in the Greater China regions to compete, interact and broaden their international horizon. Through the Contest, we hope to strengthen communication and mutual understanding among the outstanding youths in the different regions, to enhance their fellowship and competitiveness in the face of the globalisation challenge.?
Associated Event ?IT Contest for Secondary Schools 2003
As an associated event, PolyU, the Government's Education and Manpower Bureau and the Hong Kong Association for Computer Education also co-organized an 'IT Contest for Secondary Schools 2003? This contest aims to enhance secondary school students?e-Learning experience and knowledge of cyber ethics.
The Contest comprises an individual contest and a school team contest with prize awards totaling over HK$50,000. The Contest is open for registration and competition on the Web until 31 May 2003. The teams?final will be held at PolyU together with the IT Contest for Greater China. To encourage participation in this meaningful event, the sponsors Hong Kong Computer Institute and Thomson Learning will give out 30 ear thermometers, summer course cash coupons and computer textbooks to the first 50 schools enrolling for the Contest.
'IT Contest for Greater China 2003?and 'IT Contest for Secondary Schools 2003?are sponsored by Sun Microsystems (Diamond Sponsor), WebCT, eYouCT, Hong Kong Computer Institute and Thomson Learning. For detailed information, please visit the Contest website at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/itcontest2003 or contact the Contest Secretariat:
Address:IT Contest Secretariat
c/o Information Technology Services Office
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Hung Hom, Kowloon
Tel.: 2766 5499
Fax: 2764 2647
E-mail: itcontest@polyu.edu.hk
