
[date]2003.07.10[/date]
[title]PolyU unveils HKCC and SPEED Education Expo 2003[/title]
A joint Education Expo organized by the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), was opened yesterday (10 July).
Officiated at by Prof. Thomas Wong, Acting Dean (Professional and Continuing Education), the opening ceremony also celebrated two signing ceremonies made between PolyU and the University of Leicester and the Certified General Accountants Association of Canada (CGA-Canada).
Prof. Clive Dimmock, Director of Centre for Educational Leadership and Management of the University of Leicester, and Mr Raymond Yeung, Chairman of the CGA-HK, entered agreement with PolyU to offer the Master of Science in Educational Leadership, Doctorate of Education and Certified General Accountants of Canada-Qualification Programme. Both programmes will be offered through SPEED in September 2003. 
The four-day Education Expo also provides information on:
New full-time Associate Degree programmes in the areas of applied social sciences, beauty and health therapy, bilingual communication, business, design, engineering, health studies, information technology and statistics and computing for business;  
Over 30 programmes leading to PolyU SPEED and overseas academic awards, including full-time and part-time Bachelor's Degree programmes for Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates; 
Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM), a flexible part-time mode of study designed for busy executives;  
Reimbursable courses listed under the Continuing Education Fund in the areas of China business, design, financial services, logistics, language and tourism. 
Featuring information seminars, consultation sessions and guided tours of the campus, the Expo offers opportunities for prospective students to meet face to face with school representatives and its partnering institutions. The Expo runs from 10 to 13 July 2003 (10:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.) on the podium of PolyU.
For more details, please visit the websites of SPEED and HKCC at www.speed.polyu.edu.hk or www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc respectively.
Notes to the editor:
Established in 2002, the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is dedicated to offer full-time Associate Degree and other sub-degree programmes. For the academic year 2002/03, it has over 800 students in its Associate Degree Scheme, with 673 students studying for the Associate in Business. In terms of student numbers, its Business stream is the largest single Associate Degree programme in Hong Kong.
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) is the flagship of PolyU in professional and continuing education. Established in 1999, the School now operates over 30 award-bearing programmes and 300 credit-bearing and non credit-bearing short courses. Since 2000, it has adopted a Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM), which allows learners to earn lifelong credits for academic awards through studying courses at the School. By early 2003, over 3,000 students have been registered under CAM.
The University of Leicester has been rated by the Financial Times (Financial League Table 2003) and Sunday Times (The Sunday Times University League 2002) amongst the top 20 leading universities in the UK. Its Centre for Educational Leadership and Management is one of the leading centres for educational research in the UK, employing the largest single group of academics working in the field of educational leadership and management.
The Certified General Accountants Association of Canada (CGA-Canada) is one of the three national accounting bodies in Canada. The Association is a self-regulating professional body that represents more than 55,000 Certified General Accountants and CGA students in Canada, Bermuda, the nation of Caribbean, Hong Kong and the Chinese Mainland.
