
[date]2003.01.02[/date]
[title]PolyU President's term extended[/title]
The Council of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has resolved to extend the appointment of Prof. Poon Chung-kwong as President of the University for another four years until 31 December 2008 following the expiry of his current term of office on 31 December 2004.
According to the Council Chairman, Dr Sir Gordon Wu Ying-sheung, it is important for the University to retain the service of such a dedicated and visionary leader as Prof. Poon to lead the University through the tough challenges lying ahead.
Throughout his past 12 years of presidency, Sir Gordon added, Prof. Poon had helped the University achieve impressive progress on many fronts. He had built a competent management team and cultivated a harmonious and open atmosphere across the campus. The high rating Prof. Poon received in a 360-degree performance review conducted in 2001 at his suggestion testifies well to the high level of acceptance he enjoys among all sectors of the PolyU community.
Earlier on, Sir Gordon also held informal consultation sessions with officers of the PolyU Staff Association, the PolyU Postgraduate Students Association and the Students?Union, during which widespread support for the re-appointment was received.
Sir Gordon congratulated Prof. Poon on the re-appointment and expressed confidence that the University would continue to flourish in the days ahead.
Meanwhile, Prof. Poon expressed his profound appreciation of the Council's decision and the goodwill and trust it represents.
He also thanked all members of the PolyU community ?students, staff, members of the Council and Court alike ?for their continuous support. He said, 'I'm proud and privileged to have been supported by such a dedicated and capable team of colleagues during the past 12 years and together we had overcome many challenges.?br&gt;
'In the knowledged-driven 21st century, we are determined to preserve our distinct characteristics and ethos in what we do. We are committed to enhancing the all-round development of our students, raising the profile of our research and postgraduate studies in a professional context and further developing management excellence as well as a culture of quality and innovation on campus.
'Guided by shared vision and commitment, my colleagues and I will continue to move ahead and rise to future challenges with confidence and enthusiasm,?Prof. Poon said.
