
[date]2003.07.06[/date]
[title]PolyU launches new range of continuing education programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University invites applications for its wide selection of professional courses and Associate Degree programmes offered through its School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) and the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC).
In the coming September, SPEED will launch two new Bachelor's Degrees in Travel Industry Management and Marketing and Public Relations. Designed for Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates, the two programmes will be available in both full-time and part-time modes of study. Full-time students may complete the degree within one and a half years.
Associate Degree and Higher Diploma holders are also invited to apply SPEED's popular degree programmes in business and logistics and supply chain management, offered in collaboration with the Heriot-Watt University and the Northumbria University.
At postgraduate level, SPEED will join hands with the University of Leicester to offer the Master of Science in Education Leadership and Doctorate of Education in September. Other new programmes include Master of Aviation of Massey University, Master of Professional Accounting of Edith Cowan University, and Master of Public Health of the University of Western Sydney. The latter programme is introduced to meet the growing demand for public health management specialists following the outbreak of SARS.
In a constant effort to expand the range of continuing education programmes available to the public, Dr Anthony Tam, Director of SPEED and Acting Director of HKCC, said: 'It is my belief that these exciting and forward-looking programmes will be of great benefits to those who wish to improve their career prospects, upgrade their skills and knowledge and keep abreast of the latest developments in their own fields of employment.?br&gt;
Following HKCC's 2003/04 Prospectus printed in end June, SPEED releases its new Prospectus featuring courses starting school from July to December 2003. Apart from the award-bearing programmes mentioned above, the Prospectus contains over 280 short courses including 122 credit-bearing courses offered under the School's Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM).
Many SPEED programmes have been included in the list of 'reimbursable courses?under the Continuing Education Fund, covering such areas as China business, design, financial services, logistics and supply chain management, language and tourism. Qualified students may apply to the Fund for reimbursement of up to $10,000 of the tuition fee.
For a copy of SPEED Prospectus, please visit its office at PolyU, or go to any District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Ltd and Hang Seng Bank.
Furthermore, SPEED and HKCC will jointly organise a four-day Education Expo on the University campus (Podium level, FG and FJ Wing) from 10 to 13 July 2003. The Expo aims to provide the public with firsthand information about the programmes offered by SPEED and HKCC. Featuring information seminars, consultation sessions and guided tours of the campus, the Expo offers opportunities for prospective students to meet face to face with school representatives and its partnering institutions.
For more details, please contact representatives of SPEED and HKCC through:
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED)
Address: Room QR 802, 8/F Shirley Chan Building (Core R), PolyU
Tel : 3400 2828 
Fax : 2363 0540
Email : speed@polyu.edu.hk
Website: www.speed.polyu.edu.hk
Hong Kong Community College (HKCC)
Address: Room QR 802, 8/F Shirley Chan Building (Core R), PolyU
Tel : 3400 2868 
Fax : 2994 8721
Email : ccoffice@polyu.edu.hk
Website: www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc
