
[date]2003.06.04[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding hotel and tourism alumnus[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently presented its Outstanding Alumni Award to Mrs Kitty Byron, Human Resources Services Manager of Walt Disney World Co. in the United States, for her outstanding professional achievements, significant contributions to the community and PolyU.
The "Outstanding PolyU HTM Alumni Award" is presented to give public recognition to outstanding HTM graduates.
"Mrs Byron is most deserving for this recognition. Her remarkable accomplishments in the hotel and tourism industry have made her a role model for our students. Students are encouraged to work hard and benchmark their aspirations against her outstanding achievements," said Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of HTM, who is also a member of the Panel of Judges.
Graduated from HTM in 1985, Mrs Byron first started working for Walt Disney World by participating in a cultural exchange programme. Since then, she has demonstrated her talents and calibre in a wide variety of projects. In 1996, she successfully spearheaded the First Asian Business Expo and Career Fair at Disney's Contemporary Hotel. She was also selected as a Walt Disney World Ambassador for 2000. As her career continues to fly high within Disney, Mrs Byron contributes significantly to the development of the University's hospitality education.
Mrs Byron's outstanding achievements have won her great acclaim within the industry. Over the years, she has been honoured the Leadership in Diversity Award by Asian American Heritage Council; Outstanding Achievement Award by US Pan Asian Chamber of Commerce; Outstanding Leadership Award by Asian American Chamber of Commerce, and Walt Disney World Minority Business Relations Partner Recognition.
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management was established in 1979 and has produced some 10,000 graduates. The School has been designated by the prestigious International Academy for the Study of Tourism as its world headquarters and Secretariat. It has also been ranked among the world's top 15 profilic hotel schools earlier this year, according to the authoritative Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Education. PolyU is the only Asian institution on this roll of honour.
