
[date]2003.01.21[/date]
[title]PolyU holds opening and naming ceremony for the Student Halls of Residence[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (21 January) officially opened its Student Halls of Residence, thus unfolding a new chapter in the University's history. On the same occasion, the west wing of the Halls was named after the Hong Kong Jockey Club in recognition of its generous donation made to the University on this project.
The ceremony was officiated at by Dr Alice Lam, Chairman of the University Grants Committee; Mr Ronald Arculli, Chairman of the Hong Kong Jockey Club; Dr Sir Gordon Wu, PolyU Council Chairman and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Speaking at the ceremony, Sir Gordon said: 'University education is more than imparting knowledge, it also involves enhancing personal growth, including one's moral, intellectual, physical, and social development. Considering all these factors, life at residential halls is therefore an extremely important element of the social dimension in university education.?
He also recalled his four years time spent in the residence halls of Princeton University during his undergraduate studies. 'It was a marvellous experience for me and I thoroughly enjoyed my hall life. I sincerely hope that our students will be able to take full benefit from their time at the halls,?said Sir Gordon.
Prof. Poon reiterated his earnest gratitude to the Government, the University Grants Committee and the Hong Kong Jockey Club for their unswerving support of the project, which spanned over six years. 'The opening of the student hostel is indeed another step leading the University to its vision of offering truly all-rounded education to our students,?he added.
The Hong Kong Jockey Club, through its Charities Trust, has pledged a generous donation of up to $117 million to PolyU for the hostel development project. However, the actual amount of donation may vary as a result of the considerable savings in construction expenditures.
Located 15 minutes away from the main PolyU campus, the 22-storey high rise occupies a site area of 5,868 square metres and provides 3,004 hostel places. Student residents are grouped into nine halls, with each hall taking two floors. The names of halls expound the meaning of PolyU's Motto: 'To learn and to apply, for the benefit of mankind? as reflected by the first Chinese character in each of the names of eight halls accommodating undergraduate students, with one more hall accommodating postgraduate students.
Shared between two residents, each standard room is air-conditioned and well-equipped with Internet connection, mini-fridge and TV outlet. The premises also house a 25-metre swimming pool, a spacious dining hall, an exhibition hall, a fitness room, a landscaped roof garden, student lounges and various multi-purpose activity rooms.
To enhance students?personal growth and sense of belongings, the Halls have actively run a series of academic, social and cultural activities. Last semester, the Halls had invited prominent figures in town to join and speak to some 1,800 PolyU student residents at three joint-hall high table dinners. A team of hall wardens, tutors and administrators are also on hand to provide pastoral care and intellectual guidance, support and encouragement to hall residents.
The Hong Kong Jockey Club has long demonstrated its support to PolyU's effort in nurturing ‘preferred graduates?to employers and the community. In addition to supporting this student hostel project, the Club has also made generous donations to the establishment of PolyU's Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre and the Jockey Club Auditorium.
