
[date]2003.03.27[/date]
[title]Five distinguished PolyU graduates honoured at gala ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its 'Outstanding Alumni Award?to five alumni yesterday (27 March) to pay tribute to their remarkable professional achievements and significant contributions to their alma mater and the community.
The award recipients, in alphabetical order, were:
Prof. John Lee Hak-shan, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, McGill University, Canada
Dr Rebecca Lee Lok-sze, Founder and Director of China Polar Museum Foundation 
Mr Humphrey Leung Kwong-wai, Founder, President &amp; Managing Director, Solomon Systech Limited 
Mr Liu Sing-cheong, Founder and Managing Director, Pearl River Hang Cheong Real Estate Consultants Ltd., Guangzhou 
Mr Samuel Wong King-on, Partner, Assurance and Advisory Business Services, Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants and International Deputy President, The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
At the award presentation ceremony held at the Hotel Inter-Continental Hong Kong, the coveted awards were presented by the Guest of Honour Dr Henry Tang Ying-yen, Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology. Over 500 guests comprising senior government officials, the University's Court and Council members, friends and supporters from industries, alumni and staff members, attended the ceremony to share the joy of the awardees.
Launched in 1996, the biennial "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" Selection is jointly organized by PolyU and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) for the fourth time. It aims to accord public recognition to outstanding graduates of the University and its forerunners, the Hong Kong Polytechnic, Hong Kong Technical College and Government Trade School. The Honorary Consultant for the selection is Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants.
The seven-member Panel of Judges, made up of government officials and renowned community leaders, is chaired by Dr Henry Tang Ying-yen. Its members (in alphabetical order) include:
Dr Allen Lee Peng-fei, Court Member, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; 
Mr David C. Lee, Council Member, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and Chairman &amp; Managing Director, David C. Lee Surveyors Ltd.; 
Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, Chairman, Federation of Hong Kong Industries and Chairman &amp; Chief Executive, Gold Peak (Holdings) Ltd.; 
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; 
Mr Otto Poon Lok-to, Managing Director, Analogue Group of Companies; and 
Mr William Tong, Chairman, Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations. 
Biodata of the awardees
Prof. John Lee Hak-shan
(Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, Hong Kong Technical College, 1957)
Prof. Lee is currently Professor of Mechanical Engineering in McGill University in Canada. As an international authority in the areas of detonation and explosion, nuclear engineering, environmental sciences and the treatment of hazardous waste, he is also Honorary Professor of the Institute of Mechanics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. Prof. Lee's scholarly career was founded on his studies in mechanical engineering at the Hong Kong Technical College in the late 50s. He pursued further studies at McGill University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been awarded the Numa Manson Gold Medal for 'Outstanding Contributions to the Fundamentals and Practical aspects of Explosion and Detonation Phenomena?by the Institute of Dynamics of Explosion and Reactive Systems; and the Dinoizy Smolenski Medal for 'Outstanding Contributions to the Advance of Knowledge in Combustion and Explosion Process?by the Polish Academy of Sciences. Prof. Lee has been generous in his advice to PolyU's Department of Mechanical Engineering in respect of the design of the curriculum for combustion and air pollution. He has further initiated collaborative research between PolyU and McGill University. PolyU's students have on many occasions also benefited directly from his inspiring teaching.
Dr Rebecca Lee Lok-sze
(Certificate in Commercial Design, Hong Kong Technical College, 1964)
Renowned as the world's first woman explorer who has reached the Arctic, the Antarctica and Mount Everest, Dr Lee has made immense contributions toward polar exploration over the past 20 years. In 1997, she successfully founded the China Polar Museum Foundation with an aim to consolidate scientific research findings about polar exploration from all over the world to advance global environmental protection. The Foundation's museum in Dalian is scheduled to open in 2004. Dr Lee is also actively involved in public education initiatives to increase public awareness of environmental protection. With her talents in photography and art, she has published numerous books and articles, produced TV documentaries and held photo exhibitions to share her insights and adventures. Dr Lee has been appointed Advisor (Science) for the Leisure and Cultural Services Department of the Hong Kong SAR Government; Advisor for the Polar Research Committee of the Chinese Academy of Sciences; and Vice President of the Hong Kong Association for the Advancement of Science and Technology.
Mr Humphrey Leung Kwong-wai 
(Higher Diploma in Electronic Engineering, 1978; Associateship in Electronic Engineering, 1981, Hong Kong Polytechnic) 
As one of the first semiconductors integrated circuit design engineers in Hong Kong, 
Mr Leung has contributed significantly to the growth of the local hi-tech semiconductor and electronics industries. His career has been characterised by more than a decade of service to a leading multinational Motorola and most recently by the founding and development of his own specialist semiconductor company. He is currently President and Managing Director of Solomon Systech Limited which he founded in 1999. Under his vision and leadership, the company has earned various industrial and customer awards including the 2002 Hong Kong Electronic Industries Association Gold Award and Grand Award for Outstanding Innovation and Technology Products, the 2001 Hong Kong Award for Industry: Export Marketing, and the 2001 Hong Kong New SME Gold Award. He has also dedicated his time and efforts toward the University's training and research programmes in electronic and information engineering. With his remarkable achievements, he was named a recipient of the Young Industrialists Awards of Hong Kong in 2001.
Mr Liu Sing-cheong
(Higher Diploma in Surveying (General Practice), 1977; Advanced Higher Diploma in General Practice Surveying; 1979, Hong Kong Polytechnic)
Mr Liu is Founder and Managing Director of Guangzhou Pearl River Hang Cheong (PRHC) Real Estate Consultants and Chairman of Guangzhou Top Home Technology Co. Ltd. Under his leadership, PRHC is the only non-local company which has been awarded the prestigious Class-A property consultancy/agency status in Guangzhou for six consecutive years since 1996. He is also Honorary Fellow and Adjunct Professor of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate. He has been enthusiastic in supporting research activities in the Department, giving generously of his time as an active co-investigator in several research projects. His company has endowed scholarships to sponsor academics from leading Chinese universities to conduct research on real estate markets in Hong Kong. He is also actively involved in public service, offering advice and service to a number of tertiary institutions and public organizations. He is affiliated with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors; Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors and the United States Urban Land Institute. He is a member of the Hong Kong Housing Authority and a sub-committee member of the Law Reform Commission of Hong Kong. He is also a Visiting Professional Fellow of the Cambridge International Land Institute of the University of Cambridge. 
Mr Samuel Wong King-on
(Higher Diploma in Accountancy, Hong Kong Polytechnic, 1977) 
After his early studies at the Hong Kong Polytechnic, Mr Wong received his MBA from the University of Bradford, where he was awarded the Binder Hamlyn prize for the best student in financial management in 1978. Mr Wong is currently Partner of Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants. He has been elected as Vice President and Deputy
President of ACCA Worldwide for the past two years and will be the President in 2003. He 
will thus become the first Chinese ever elected as an officer of this worldwide 
professional body since its establishment in 1904, leading nearly 300,000 members and students in 160 countries. He has also been selected as one of the Outstanding Accountancy Alumni and appointed Adjunct Professor by PolyU's Department of Accountancy. In addition, he has been the Honorary Student Mentor of the Department since 2001. His illustrious career and his many contributions to the accounting profession have won him many honours.
