
[date]2003.01.27[/date]
[title]PolyU listed Asia's top 20 IT-savvy organisations[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently been selected one of Asia's top 20 IT-savvy organisations in the third Intelligent20 Awards - an annual competition organised by the Singapore-based IT magazine Intelligent Enterprise Asia. This year only five organisations from Hong Kong were on the list.
The coveted award was presented by the Vice-Chairman of the SITF Wireless Chapter, Ms Chong Yoke-sim, to PolyU's Director of Information Technology Services, Mr Richard Li, at a gala presentation ceremony held on 16 January at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Singapore.
Delighted with this honour, Mr Li said, "This award has proven our leading position in the use of information technology. Benchmarked against other academic institutions, I believe PolyU stands proudly in the upper echelon of the most 'wired' universities worldwide."  The University was honoured for pioneering the use of portal in the local tertiary sector in 2002. Known as "myPolyU" the portal provides staff and students with personalised one-stop access to all essential information and electronic services. Through myPolyU, individual users can have access to role-based personalised facilities. They can also customise the portal interface by re-arranging the sequence of displaying items, using a different colour and subscribing to news channels.
The portal also includes a sophisticated content management system with access control on content search. It offers various news channels for administrative and academic departments to broadcast their news to selected groups of target audience, from university-wide notice to individual class announcement. In addition, myPolyU provides an electronic calendar for staff and students to set up their diary, make appointments, and check for key dates in the Academic Calendar.
With its single sign-on feature, end users only need to logon once to access e-mails, e-learning material, e-calendar, e-forms, weather information, local newspaper, library services and various other e-services at their own pace. These e-Services have largely replaced paper forms and over-the-counter services, thus promoting the wider use of information technology among the PolyU community.
The Intelligent20 Awards were presented to enterprises and organisations that make effective use of information technology to achieve new levels of operational excellence, customer service, and innovation. The winners were chosen by a 10-member panel of judges comprising senior representatives from leading global consulting and research firms such as Deloitte, Gartner and KPMG. Other winners include the Ministry of Defense in Singapore, the Hong Kong International Terminals, Bank of America (Asia) and Singapore Telecom.
This year the competition received more than 50 entries from leading enterprises and organisations in Singapore, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. For more details, please refer to the event website at URL: www.intelligentasia.com/i20.
