
[date]2003.03.11[/date]
[title]PolyU’s award-winning projects on display at House of Innovation[/title]
The cyber-looking House of Innovation is now standing proudly on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) as a new feature of the Institution. Home to its many award-winning projects, the new structure provides an eye-opening experience for visitors to learn about PolyU's strengths in applied researches and its multi-faceted consultancy services.
A guided press tour was held yesterday (11 March), hosted by PolyU Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang; Vice-President Dr Lui Sun-wing; and Mr Andrew Young, Head of Partnership Development Office. Many principal investigators are also on hand to answer media enquiries at the venue.
During the tour, its was announced that Prof. Choy Chung-loong and Prof. Helen Chan Lai-wa, who were winners of 2002 State Technological Invention Award, have also brought home a Gold Medal from the first Seoul International Invention Fair (SIIF) with their project in advanced composite materials.
Also on display is the Palmprint Identification System developed by Prof. David Zhang and his team at the Department of Computing. The innovative system provides a high speed, low cost solution for security control. This invention has won a Silver Medal in the same event.
At the Institute of Textiles and Clothing, Associate Professor Dr Li Yi and his team have also captured a Bronze Medal with their project in studying 'Advanced Micro-encapsulation Phase Change Materials (PCM) for Smart Apparel? Clothing made from this new material can help human body maintain its normal temperature in hot and cold environments and during high and low activity levels.
In explaining the University's close collaboration with the industry, Mr Young mentioned that PolyU has been working closely with the Europe-based design house Giugiaro in developing new models of light four-wheel vehicle.
Display panels of other award-winning projects, including the Space Holiners Forceps and Mars Rock Corer and the Telehealth System, are housed under the same roof.
The House of Innovation is open for visit upon request. For arrangement of visit, please contact the University's Partnership Development Office at 3400 2799.
