
[date]2005.08.11[/date]
[title]PolyU to host conference on hotel security and safety[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is hosting a conference on "Hotel Security and Safety" on 15 August to provide a forum for experts in the field to share their expertise and ideas.
Organized by PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) and Hotel Asia Pacific - a magazine for hospitality professionals, this one-day conference will provide a valuable occasion for close to 100 academics and practitioners in the industry from all over the world to discuss how they can best prepare for unforeseen crises such as natural disasters and terrorist activities.
As the host of the Conference, Prof. Kaye Chon, Head of SHTM said, "Hotel security and safety has become a hot topic of international debate following the significant rise in terrorism and disasters recently. The damages caused by terrorism and natural disasters to the hotel industry are far more extensive than mere physical property damage. Therefore, we very much hope that the conference will mark an important step in sourcing out precaution measures and help the industry to bounce back."
The conference will feature two keynote speeches to be delivered by Prof. Kaye Chon and Mr Alan Orlob, Vice President of Corporate Security for Marriot International Lodging. There will also be three panel discussion groups under three major topics: hospitality and terrorism, industry response to security and safety issues, and communication in crisis management.
SHTM is Asia's leading university in tourism and hospitality education. With a rich history of 26 years, the School has nurtured more than 10,000 young talents for the hospitality industry in Hong Kong. With over 1,200 registered students, 40 academic staff from 16 countries, SHTM is among the world's top 15 academic institutions in tourism and hospitality based on research and scholarly activities. The School was designated by the World Tourism Organization (WTO) as one of its Education and Training Network Centres around the world - the only one in Asia. Just weeks ago, the School has signed pact with the WTO to foster co-operation in research and industry support activities relating to tourism in the region.
For more information about the conference, please visit: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/hotelsecurity
