
[date]2005.10.17[/date]
[title]PolyU takes part in ’973 programme on acid rain[/title]
At the invitation of the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences (CRAES), The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has sent forth a top-notch environmental expert to take part in a National Basic Research Programme ('973 Programme) on the formation, transport and control of acid rain.
Prof. Wao Tang of PolyU's Department of Civil and Structural Engineering has been appointed Chief Scientist of this large-scale project and Research Professor of CRASE. This project is supported by RMB$26m from the '973 Programme.
The acid rain research project is affiliated with the State Environmental Protection Administration of China and being undertaken by CRAES. This project will bring together expertise from Peking University, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University, PolyU, Beijing Normal University and the Chinese Academy of Meteorological Sciences. The project team comprises over 140 research personnel, including over 80 full-time staff and more than 60 research students.
Citing current research statistics, Prof. Wang said about 30 percent of the land in the Chinese mainland is being affected by acid rain. It is also one of the three territories around the world with expanding area of acid rain. Since China is undergoing rapid economic growth, active steps must be taken to control the spread of acid rain.
Acid rain is defined as rainfall with a pH value of below 5.6. It is caused by sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides which mainly come from the combustion of fossil fuels. Acid rain is known to be detrimental to environment and ancient relics and hazardous to human health. It is also the major cause of smog in mainland cities. The direct and indirect economic losses which caused by acid rain have added up to over RMB110billion per year, hindering the sustainable development of China's economy.
It is anticipated the findings of this five-year study will provide further insight on the formation of acid rain and its impact on the environment. In the course of studying this subject, researchers will also come up strategies to tackle this problem.
Prof. Wang Tao has a wealth of experience in studying atmospheric chemistry. Since 1992, he has been actively involved in a joint project with NASA on the atmospheric change in North Pacific Region. He is now heading PolyU's Atmospheric Chemistry Research Laboratory in Hok Tsui at the south-eastern tip of Hong Kong Island.
Over the years, Prof. Wang and his colleagues have been studying changes in atmospheric chemistry through collecting and analyzing aerosol and other gas samples at the station. The team is also involved in air monitoring over the Pearl River Delta Region, Yangtze River Delta Region, Northern China and the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau; with a view to studying environmental pollution, global warming and climatic changes in these areas.
