
[date]2005.08.04[/date]
[title]SPEED enhances Pre-Associate Degree programme for HKCEE holders[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), an affiliate of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), yesterday (4 August) unveiled details of its enhanced Pre-Associate Degree programme for holders of HKCEE.
Since 2001, SPEED has taken the lead in offering Pre-AD programme for graduates of HKCEE and received overwhelming response among secondary school leavers, recording a remarkable growth of 37 students in 2001/02 to now 317 students in 2004/05.
Dr Dennis Chan, Acting Director of SPEED, said according to its 2004 graduate survey, among its 64 graduates, more than 90 per cent of graduates continued their full-time study in either local or overseas institutes. Among them, more than half of the graduates successfully enrolled on Associate Degree programmes offered by PolyU's Hong Kong Community College. Other graduates continued their study in other institutes' Associate Degree, Higher Diploma or Diploma's programmes.
'The high articulation and application rates are evidence to prove that more and more HKCEE graduates have chosen to pursue further study via the Pre-AD programme, providing them an alternative route for higher education,' said Dr Chan.
In 2005/06, SPEED offers a total of nine subject domains under its Pre-AD programme. Apart from the six existing domains which are Accounting and Office Administration, Business Accounting, Business and Logistics Management, General Management, Business and Digital Entertainment, Travel and Tourism, there are three new domains to be introduced.
Three new domains are Business and Mobile Entertainment, Game Design and Business, and Hotel and Catering. Students who study Hotel and Catering at Hong Kong YWCA will be able to practice at its guestrooms and catering practical room.
With an aim to provide students with a broad-based and holistic post-secondary education, SPEED's Pre-AD programme is designed for HKCEE graduates who hold five passes in the HKCEE or satisfactory completion of the Project Yi Jin. Expected to complete in one year, the full-time Pre-AD programme is composed of six compulsory subjects, five elective subjects and a guided project.
