
[date]2005.09.01[/date]
[title]PolyU shows strong commitment to internationalization[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s new academic year kicked off with a series of welcoming ceremonies held on campus for its 6,500 new full-time students yesterday (1 September).
The restructuring of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences also came into effect yesterday. The new 'Department of Health Technology and Informatics' brings together PolyU's three well-established disciplines of Biomedical Engineering, Medical Laboratory Science, and Radiography for synergistic advancements in these fields. The former Department of Optometry and Radiography is renamed the 'School of Optometry' to reflect its steady growth and highlight its role as the sole provider of tertiary education in optometry in Hong Kong.
This academic year 2005/06 sees the admission of some 4,600 UGC-funded full-time first-year students, comprising about 2,365 undergraduate students and 2,235 higher diploma students. About 88 per cent undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as one of their top three (Band A) choices.
In addition, there are 1,900 new self-financed associate degree and top-up degree students admitted to the PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED).
PolyU has taken a big leap forward in cultivating its international ties. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 450 international students and sends forth a similar number of its students abroad for exchange this year. Currently, more than 200 overseas students have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester. The students come from different parts of the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Sweden, the UK and the US.
Apart from overseas students, PolyU has also actively recruited students from the Chinese mainland. Among the 2700 applications received from over 17 provinces and cities, 190 students have been admitted to PolyU this year. They will start a one-year foundation programme for undergraduate studies in this academic year 2005/06 prior to their progression to Bachelor's degree studies. It is the University's belief that the interaction between local and non-local students will bring an important and enriching dimension to campus life and help cultivate the students' global outlook.
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, about 700 students are admitted to the University via JUPAS 'Sub-system for School Principals' Nominations' and PolyU's 'Non-academic Achievements Self-Recommendation Scheme' and 'Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme.'
At the associate degree level, about 1,700 students are admitted to study in the 13 programmes offered by HKCC this year. The associate degree programmes cover a wide range of areas, including arts, applied social sciences, business, beauty and health therapy, bilingual communication, China business, design, engineering, English for business communication, healthcare, information technology, sciences, as well as statistics and computing for business.
To provide associate degree students with fuller campus life experience and more comprehensive facilities, HKCC has successfully acquired a site for the construction of a new campus building in Hung Hom Bay, scheduled to complete in 2007.
In addition, to recognize students with outstanding performance and to help develop students' potential, HKCC has introduced new scholarships and student enriching initiatives in the new academic year, totalling more than four million dollars. Furthermore, to provide pathways for students to advance to further studies, HKCC has established articulation agreements with over 30 well-established institutions at home and abroad.
SPEED has also admitted about 250 students to study in its top-up degree programmes in the new academic year. Apart from the existing BA in Applied and Media Arts, Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management, the School will introduce two new degree programmes, namely, BA in Business and BA in Applied Sociology.
