
[date]2005.07.25[/date]
[title]Learn real world business at PolyU Summer Camp[/title]
One hundred Secondary Six students from Hong Kong and overseas have taken part in a summer camp organized by the Faculty of Business of PolyU, exploring how the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA) and Pan-Pearl River Delta (PPRD) regional cooperation might impact their lives in the years ahead.
Spending four days and three nights at PolyU's Student Halls of Residence from 18-21 July, students from more than 40 secondary schools in Hong Kong gathered to find out more about the recent developments in the world of business and how the changes would influence their career choices and prospects.
This has been the second year for the Faculty of Business to organize summer camp for Secondary Six students. By integrating lectures, action-learning workshops, games and personal encounters into the programmes, the Camp aims to help youngsters understand key business principles and improve interpersonal skills needed to thrive in today's competitive environment.
Business-specific contents such as "The Art of Strategic Thinking: CEPA-PPRD and You" and "Hong Kong and Mainland's Business Relationship" were included in the programmes. Special workshop named "Communication &amp; Problem Solving in Teams" and a business plan competition was also organized to groom student's communication and leadership skills. Students were also given the opportunity to spend an evening with PolyU's MBA students to work on a case study project.
Students were impressed by the Camp and the following are some of their feedbacks:
Grace Suen, an 8A scorer in her HKCEE, from Li Po Chun United World College of Hong Kong, said the camp was very useful for her future career. "I would like to work for foreign companies in developing business in the Mainland. I find the PolyU Summer Business Camp an enchanting experience," she said.
"I really appreciate the opportunity to meet with MBA students and I learn a lot from their ways of thinking and their working experience in the business world," said Johnny Chung of St. Francis Xavier's College.
Michael Chan of Diocesan Boys' School said, "I have learned to live and work with different people in this camp, and especially how to cooperate with team members in the 'Communication &amp; Problem Solving in Teams' workshop."
"This camp helps me a lot in identifying my future study path. I think it has been a wise choice to pick the PolyU Summer Business Camp among the many summer programmes offered by universities around the world," concluded Kitty Au of Steveston Secondary School in Canada.
Camp Organizer, Dr Stephen Luk from the School of Accounting and Finance, said at the closing of the Camp: "We really appreciate the support given by the secondary schools in making our event a success. I am sure that participants not only gain knowledge of the real business world, but also build up their confidence and insights on their planning for future studies and careers."
