
[date]2005.09.08[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold the Thirteenth Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, yesterday (8 September) held its Thirteenth Congregation on the PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated at by Prof. Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of Warwick Manufacturing Group; Mr Yeung Kwok-keung, Executive Director of the Hong Kong Productivity Council; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President. During the ceremony, Mr Roy Chung Chi-ping, a graduate of the IEBMP programme and Group Managing Director of Techtronic Industries Company Limited, was also re-appointed as Industrial Fellow of the University of Warwick. 
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon congratulated the Warwick Manufacturing Group on its 25th Anniversary and paid tribute to Prof. Lord Bhattacharyya for his vision in introducing the novel approach of grooming students with knowledge of both engineering and management disciplines as early as in 1980. The model has since then been modeled upon by institutions around the world. 
Launched in 1990, the IEBMP is a unique industry scheme comprising three tiers, namely Engineering Doctorate Programme (EngD), Integrated Graduate Development Scheme (IGDS) which offers Master's and Postgraduate Awards, and Integrated Manager Development Scheme (IMDS) which offers Post-experience Diploma and Certificate awards. 
This year's the programme has sent forth a total of 123 graduates including one from EngD, 113 from IGDS and nine from IMDS. Among them, six mainland students have made special trips to Hong Kong to join the ceremony. 
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and management. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, global e-business, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management. 
The success of IEBMP saw its expansion into the Chinese mainland. In 2000, PolyU joined hands with the Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) to offer IGDS programmes in Wuhan. Since 2005, a dedicated unit named the HUST-HKPolyU Institute of Manufacturing Excellence has been set up to explore further provision of IEBMP programmes in the mainland. 
