
[date]2005.09.22[/date]
[title]PolyU cultivates students’ global outlook through overseas exchange programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is organizing a series of student exchange activities between 22 and 29 September on campus. Themed 'Global Citizens with a Global Outlook', the event aims to promote the University's student exchange programme, introduce overseas study opportunities to its students and enhance cultural exchange. The event was kicked off at an opening ceremony held yesterday (22 September), with PolyU Vice President Prof. Suleyman Demokan as the officiating guest. In addition, representatives from the Consulates of Australia, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Finland, France, Germany, Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States also officiated at the ceremony. Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Demokan said: 'In line with the University's strategic objectives to promote internationalization and to help students develop global outlook, PolyU has continued to expand its student exchange programme in recent years. The University now works closely with more than 120 partner universities in 18 countries all over the world for its student exchange programme.' This year, the University targets to send forth 450 local students abroad for exchange and receive a similar number of international students on campus. For the first semester, about 200 PolyU students have been selected for exchange to 14 countries, and 200 overseas students have been admitted to the University for exchange. PolyU has taken a big leap forward in cultivating its international ties. Compared to the figures of 40 inbound and 60 outbound students when the student exchange programme was first launched in 2001, there is a significant increase in the number of exchange students.Apart from expanding its student exchange programme, the University also strives to achieve internationalization through the recruitment of non-local students. At present, there are over 600 non-local and exchange students from more than 25 countries studying at PolyU. Organized by the Academic Exchange and Collaboration Office, the event comprises a variety of activities, including booth exhibition by the consulates, roadshow, quiz game and cultural performance. In addition, an international cultural night will be held on 29 September at the Student Halls of Residence for the local and non-local students to get together and share the cultures of different countries. The University has received great support to the event from the following Consulates and offices, to whom its thanks are due: Consulates of Australia, Finland, France, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland and the US, the British Council, Canadian Education Centre, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in HKSAR, DAAD Information Centre of Germany, and Korea Tourism Organization. 
