
[date]2005.08.24[/date]
[title]PolyU and industry jointly promote awareness of primary eye care[/title]
With strong support from the optometry profession, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has taken the lead in establishing the PolyVision Primary Eye Care Consortium to promote the awareness of primary eye care in the community.
The inauguration ceremony of the Consortium held yesterday (24 August) was officiated at by Mrs Carrie Yau Tsang Ka-lai, Permanent Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the HKSAR Government; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Introducing this initiative, Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) said the PolyVision Consortium also aims at further improving the standard of service delivery in the optometry profession.
Prof. George Woo, PolyU's Chair Professor of Optometry, further pointed out that Hong Kong people are relatively unaware of the importance of regular checkup for their eyesight and the range of eye care services that could be offered. He said the comprehensive examination of the eyes should be conducted at least once a year and checking should cover more than the mere measurement of refractive error.
'As the sole provider of tertiary education in optometry in Hong Kong, PolyU is mindful of its responsibility in uplifting professional standard. With the establishment of PolyVision Consortium, we hope that at least 10 per cent of our population can receive quality primary eye care services within the next decade,' he said.
Consortium Members and their 13 centres are allowed to use the trade name of PolyVision. They are also required to follow the practising standards prescribed by the Consortium together with PolyU's School of Optometry, which will monitor their service standards.
'By providing high quality and professional eye care services, members of the PolyVision Consortium would set a fine model for the industry to follow, thus setting a higher standard and further improving the service level of the optometry profession,' said Prof. Woo, 'we believe the public will benefit from this improved level of eye care service.'
Yesterday's ceremony also marked the official opening of PolyVision Eyecare (Wanchai) Centre, a Consortium Member operating under the aegis of PolyU's subsidiary PolyVision Eyecare Company Limited, on the Hong Kong Island.
The new Centre is well-equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. On top of providing comprehensive eye care services and dispensing of optical and contact lenses, the Centre offers specialised vision screening services for young children. It also provides vision training services for children with amblyopia ( 'lazy eye') and misalignment of the eyes ( 'squint').
The PolyVision Eyecare (Wanchai) Centre is conveniently located at Room 4201, 42/F of the Hopewell Centre in Wanchai. For booking and further enquiries, please call 2866 9660 or visit its website at URL : www.polyvision.com.hk.
