
[date]2005.11.08[/date]
[title]PolyU achieves breakthrough in glaucoma detection[/title]
With the use of advanced multifocal electro-retinogram (mfERG) technology, researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Optometry have developed a novel method which can improve the accuracy of glaucoma detection to as high as 93 per cent.
This pioneering study is co-funded by the Research Grants Council's Competitive Earmarked Research Grants and PolyU. It was conducted by PhD student Mr Patrick Chu Ho-wai under the supervision of Associate Professor Dr Henry Chan Ho-lung of the School of Optometry. The findings have been accepted for publication in the authoritative journal Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science.
Glaucoma is a common eye disease that causes a gradual loss of eyesight. It is generally characteristised by increased pressure within the eyeball, and may ultimately lead to total blindness. This disease usually occurs among middle-aged persons, and accounts for nearly a quarter of all blindness for people aged 45 or above.
Patients suffering from glaucoma will also experience narrowing of visual field. In turn, the measurement of eye pressure and visual field are considered as critical tools for glaucoma detection. The accuracy and results of these two measurements, however, would be affected by corneal thickness and patients' subjective response respectively. In addition, glaucoma is assessed by observing the appearance of optic nerve head, but this traditional method relies heavily on the experience and subjective judgment of medical practitioners and frontline optometrists.
Dr Chan added that the narrowing of visual field is usually clinically detected at a stage when the patient has already lost about 30 per cent of the total number of retinal nerve fibre. Hence there is an urgent need to develop new technique for more accurate detection of glaucoma.
The new method provides a more objective and comprehensive measurement of retinal function. This new protocol of mfERG measurement is based on the responses of retinal adaptation under different contrast stimulations. This procedure can help to quantify the adaptive mechanism in our retina.
Before going for the mfERG test, patients are required to apply some eye drops which can dilate their pupils for subsequent examination of the retina using special equipment. It only takes less than one hour to complete the assessment.
To further improve the accuracy of glaucoma detection, Dr Chan said the new procedure can be used in conjunction with other existing methods such as measurements of intraocular pressure and visual field.
He said the new technique is recommended for those patients with family history of glaucoma. In conducting further researches on the topic, he is also optimistic that the new technique can be enhanced for earlier detection of glaucoma.
Statistics from the Hospital Authority revealed that glaucoma is a major cause of blindness in Hong Kong. In 2001-02, 23.6 per cent of patients with eye diseases were registered to be permanent blindness due to glaucoma.
