
[date]2005.11.02[/date]
[title]Number of HKCC graduates advancing to degree study doubled[/title]
According to the latest graduate survey announced by PolyU's Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) yesterday (2 November), over 70 per cent of respondents further their studies in first degree programmes, while graduates who engage in full-time work enjoy an average monthly salary within the range of $8,000 to $9,000. The graduate survey was conducted in September, capturing responses from 1,074 respondents among this year's 1,180 graduates, representing a response rate of 91 per cent. This year, 769 graduates (over 70 per cent of respondents) are continuing their degree studies in either full-time or part-time mode, which more than double last year's figure (333). Furthermore, the number of graduates who are studying for government-funded programmes offered by local universities has increased more than four-fold, from 60 last year to 270 this year. Among them, 61 per cent have taken up degree programmes offered by PolyU or its related institutions, including the PolyU-affiliated School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), or programmes offered in Hong Kong by non-local universities via SPEED. More than 40 per cent of survey respondents received more than one offer for their articulation study.Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC, said, 'It is indeed encouraging to note that, the percentage of HKCC graduates advancing to degree study has reached over 70 per cent over the past three years. 'The survey results show that our graduates enjoy good prospects, which is a strong recognition of the College's efforts in providing quality programmes and producing quality graduates. HKCC will continue to follow the good practices of PolyU in nurturing all-round students.' According to the latest survey, 12 per cent of respondents are working and studying at the same time. About 20 per cent of respondents are now in full-time employment. Of them, 95 per cent found their first job within three months upon graduation and 52 per cent had more than one job offer. Over 70 per cent of respondents fell into the salary range of $6,000 to $9,000 and about 10 per cent earned more than $10,000 per month. HKCC graduates are employed in various sectors, including wholesale and retail, import and export trades, banking, finance and insurance, hotels and restaurants, education, social services, marketing and advertising.
