
[date]2005.09.26[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index indicates continuous rise in flat prices despite impact of interest rate hike[/title]
According to the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), public confidence in the residential property market remains positive and flat prices are expected to continue to rise on an upward trend despite increases in interest rates.
The same survey, conducted by the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE), also finds a stronger influence of recent interest rate increases on housing price expectations as more respondents (34 percent as compared to 17 percent of the last survey) said the impact was "significant" and "very significant".
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE index for the third quarter of 2005 stood at 704, down 4 points from 708 in the June survey. This is, the first-time dip in confidence among respondents since the March 2004 quarterly release. The said survey, conducted from 12 to 16 September 2005, showed a response of 17.5 percent with 1,029 interviews completed.
According to the survey, Homeowners (HOs) predicted that the market would rebound and housing prices would increase by 5.0 percent (last survey: 1.7 percent), while Non-Homeowners (NHOs) predicted a 4.0 percent (last survey: 4.4 percent) increase in the next three months. About 38 percent of HOs and 34 percent of NHOs rated property investment as "good" or "very good', while 24 percent of HOs and 30 percent of NHOs were neutral. However, like previous surveys, a vast number of HOs (74 percent) and NHOs (79 percent) had no idea whatsoever to buy a property in the near future. Overall, only 1.5 percent of respondents planned to buy a property in the next three months, indicating the wait-and-see attitude among respondents is not yet over.
Similar to the past findings, 61 percent of HOs (last survey: 56 percent) and 75 percent of NHOs (last survey: 70 percent) maintained that current housing prices, in general, were "somewhat too high" or "extremely high". There were some important similarities of HOs and NHOs in talking of a bubble, 47 percent of HOs (last survey: 43 percent) and 52 percent of NHOs (last survey: 53 percent) agreed that a bubble existed. Apparently, more and more people were worried about the real estate market although property prices were expected to continue to be on an upward trend.
The local economy is expected to improve further. Fifty-eight percent of HOs (last survey: 56 percent) and 52 percent of NHOs (last survey; 48 percent) expected that the overall economic conditions in Hong Kong would be "better" or "much better" in the next three months. Nineteen percent of HOs (last survey: 16 percent) and 19 percent of NHOs (last survey: 12 percent) believed their ability to pay for a home would get "better" or "much better" in the next three months. Similar to the past findings, the three important factors affecting respondents' housing decision were, in order of importance: family income, economic condition and location, followed by interest rate. One striking feature of the findings is that more importance is now attached to the interest rate in midst of the recent interest rate hike, as 70 percent of HOs thought it was an "important" or "very important" factor compared to 65 percent surveyed in June.
Prof. Eddie Hui, Professor of BRE and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE), remarked that recent increases in interest rates deterred some potential home buyers and property speculators. Nevertheless, with the improving economic conditions in Hong Kong, it is expected the confidence over the residential property market will remain positive.
Prof. Francis Wong, Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE noted the impact of the interest rate hike but added that the inflation-adjusted interest rates were still relatively low and rapid increases in interest rates over the past quarters seem to be stabilized by the end of this year. With salaries rising and improved negative equity quality and economic conditions, Hong Kong property still remains affordable and the rising trend in housing prices is moderate. He expected to see a steady growth this year.
Since its inception in December 2003, the BRE Index has been released quarterly by RCCREE in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University, Texas A&amp;M University, USA and the University of Cambridge, UK. Conducted for the eighth time, the telephone survey continues to monitor the development trend of consumer confidence in the residential property market.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm.  Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
