
[date]2005.08.17[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes new Department of Health Technology and Informatics[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is setting up a new Department of Health Technology and Informatics (HTI), under its Faculty of Health and Social Studies, in the academic year commencing on September 2005.
Introducing this initiative, Prof. Arthur Mak, Chair Professor and Head of HTI, said the new department is well poised to enhance inter-disciplinary collaborations and broad-based developments in the areas of Biomedical Engineering, Medical Laboratory Science and Radiography; and meet the community's needs for professional manpower with broader perspective.
In addition to providing the BSc (Hons) in Biomedical Engineering, HTI is offering several unique undergraduate programmes in the territory. These include the BSc (Hons) Programme in Medical Laboratory Science, which has been fully accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science in the UK; and the revamped BSc (Hons) Programme in Radiography now covering both medical imaging and radiation therapy in one generic programme. Besides being highly regarded internationally, these programmes have been formally recognized by local professional bodies.
He added that the Biomedical Engineering, which is globally recognized as one of the fastest growing areas of innovation, has been recently designated by the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers (HKIE) as one of its 17 engineering disciplines. Graduates from PolyU's BSc (Hons) Programme in Biomedical Engineering can be qualified for professional registration with both HKIE and the Hong Kong Society of Certified Prosthetist-Orthotists. This dual recognition is only achieved by PolyU and not by other tertiary institutions providing similar programmes in Hong Kong.
The University also provides a double-degree option for students pursuing Biomedical Engineering. They can simply spend one more year on self-financed basis to complete another BSc(Hons) degree in Applied Biology with Biotechnology.
Prof. Mak said this restructuring exercise has put PolyU in a better position to contribute to the development of medical devices and diagnostics, especially to those over 100 related industries in the Pearl River Delta region. He said HTI would be prepared to work closely with related industrial sector in the years ahead.
Moreover, HTI is home to the Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre and Clinic. The former is a specialist unit with a mission to undertake applied research and development in rehabilitation engineering, whereas the latter is an on-campus clinic providing customized rehabilitation engineering services to individual clients who need prostheses, orthoses, functional electrical stimulation, integrated special seating systems, assistive devices, and motion and postural assessments.
The Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Clinic was named after the Jockey Club in 2004 in recognition of its longstanding support for PolyU over the years and its recent donation of $19.38 million to support the University's development of technology for the elderly and the disabled.
