
[date]2005.10.03[/date]
[title]Launch of HK Academic Library Link hailed by Institutions[/title]
With the launch of the Hong Kong Academic Library Link (HKALL), university staff and students can now enjoy more convenient access to library resources across all institutions funded by the University Grants Committee (UGC).This initiative was officially launched yesterday (3 October) at a special ceremony held in the Pao Yue-kong Library of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Officiating guests included Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Convenor of the Heads of Universities Committee and President of PolyU; Prof. Steve Ching, Chair of the Joint University Librarians Advisory Committee (JULAC); and Dr Tony Ferguson, Chair of the HKALL Steering Committee.Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said the completion of this project, which was funded by a $10 million grant from UGC's Restructuring and Collaboration Fund, is a shining example of showing how local tertiary institutions can work together for the well being of staff and students. 'There are bound to be more opportunities for inter-institutional collaborations in the years ahead. In building more productive and closer working relationships among our institutions, we will be one step closer in realizing our vision of becoming the education hub of the region,' said Prof. Poon. To commemorate the launch of HKALL, he also reserved a book through this service. HKALL is a web-based system that allows library users to reserve books through the Internet after verifying the genuine identity of staff/students. The system has widened the access of university staff and students to the rich academic resources of other institutions. It also saves them travelling from one institution to another. With concerted efforts, HKALL has created a mega collection of over four million titles across UGC-funded institutions. Although similar projects exist elsewhere, HKALL is the first to include a large number of Chinese vernacular items. The system is built-in with a user-friendly interface providing powerful search functions by the name of author, book title, subject, keywords or International Standard Book Number (ISBN). Borrowers can renew their books through the HKALL network, provided that no other users have made a reservation.
