
[date]2005.07.14[/date]
[title]Maiden Flight: Poster Design Exhibition by multimedia design students[/title]
From 18 July to 7 August, PolyU's School of Design will hold a Poster Design Exhibition for its first year students from the Higher Diploma in Multimedia Design and Technology on campus. Apart from enhancing public's understanding of the programme, the annual exhibition showcases the outstanding works of its students.
Themed "Maiden Flight", echoing with the old philosophy that "a slow sparrow should make an early start", the Exhibition will mark the students' first debut to the public. With confidence and ambition, all students have strived for their best by involving in every step, from idea generation, exhibition planning to execution.
"Maiden Flight" features more than 20 poster works based on the brands of three commercial companies and a non profit making organization. Students are encouraged to exploit the multimedia technology for the communications of the brands.
An integrated design process has been adopted by the students, allowing them to differentiate one's communication strategy through literal thinking and personal values towards the cultural and social phenomenon. Selected works include:
Student Wong Wai-shan's poster presents young couples who have inherited an extreme family planning perception stopping them from being parents during their golden age of life. With the visual of "aged" Lego figures, Wai-shan put the figures into different toiling tasks, highlighting the financial consequences of any extreme family planning in a long term;
By making use of the cross-section of many different books, student Xelia Yuen composes a Chinese and English character of "Book" and "書". This pure typographical approach also implies the cross-linking of literatures.
Student Kau Chong-xi executes the fallible pronunciation of Chinese literature title into eccentric everyday object. The humorous approach reminds audience of the right time to start the first chapter.
The opening ceremony of the Exhibition will be graced by the presence of Tan Khiang, Editorial Board Member of Long Yin Review. The Exhibition is free and is open to public with details as follows:
Date: 18 July to 7 AugustOpening hours: 10:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m.Venue: SD Gallery (Room A101 in Core A, PolyU)
