
[date]2005.09.29[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures entrepreneurial spirit of students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) honoured eight winning teams for their creative and business talent at the award presentation ceremony of the fourth PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest held on campus yesterday (29 September).
This year, 42 teams comprising a total of 132 students from different disciplines competed in three categories, namely, Health Care and Personal Devices, Telecommunication and Home Appliances, and Toys. After rigorous screening, eight winning teams were selected out of those 23 teams entering the final round of competition.
The contestants were required to formulate and present their business plans which focused on innovative technology or product development, under the guidance of an academic staff for each team. All full-time PolyU students were eligible to join the contest.
PolyU Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, said, "The University launched the contest in 2001 in an attempt to groom the business minds of PolyU students and encourage them to explore new ideas in innovation and technology."
Mr Tzang also expressed his sincere gratitude to IDT International Limited, which has generously sponsored the contest for four consecutive years. Mr Andy Ma, General Manager of Oregon Scientific Global Distribution Ltd., a subsidiary of IDT International Limited, presented the awards to the winners.
This year, a total of nine awards were presented to the winning teams at the ceremony. The Diamond Award of Innovation winner, category winners and first runner-ups each received a certificate of merit, a plaque or a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $8,000 respectively. The Diamond Award of Innovation winner was selected among the three category winners who presented their business plans in front of the judging panel before the ceremony. The judging panel included Mr Andy Ma, Mr Peter Lau, Chairman and CEO, Giordano International Ltd. and Mr Daniel Li, Executive Vice President, Group Human Resources, IDT International Limited.
The winning entries are listed as follows:
Health Care and Personal DevicesThe Diamond Award of Innovation Winner and Category Winner: TREE[Tao Man-wai, Yao Zhengzhong, Chong King-hang, Hui Fung-fung;Advisor: Dr K. Y. Tong, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Technology and Informatics(HTI)]
1st runner-up: Make Your Dream Come True [Wong Yeung-fan, Yeung Wing-tung, HTI, Chan Ho-ming, Leung Wan-sze, Department of Management and Marketing (MM);Advisor: Prof. Daniel Chow, HTI]
1st runner-up: ABCc[Ng Hon-ming, Lo Pui-kwan, MM, Tong Nga-lai, School of Accounting and Finance; Advisor: Dr Theresa Lau, Associate Professor, MM]
Telecommunications and Home AppliancesCategory Winner: Footwear Protective Machine[Ng Ka-wai, Chan Kwok-hing;Advisor: Dr S. K. Chan, Lecturer, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering(ISE)]
1st runner-up: Bathroom Interactive Audio System [Gu Fenghuan, Fung Siu-ming, Tsui Chin-ho;Advisor: Ms Catherine Hu, Associate Professor, School of Design]
Toys Category Winner: The Development of an Interactive Toy-Clock for Sleepy Heads[Wong Mei-chun, Chan Dam, Leung Yuen-ying;Advisor: Dr C. K. Kwong, Associate Professor, ISE]
1st runner-up: Free Kick [Chow Chi-kin, Li Ming-hei, Bachelor Degree in Applied and Media Arts (AMA);Advisor: Mr Lam Yan-kit, Lecturer, AMA, School of Professional Education and Executive Development]
1st runner-up: Rainbow Railway[Chan Wing-yan, Ho Wai-han, Lee Ka-wing;Advisor: Dr C. K. Kwong, Associate Professor, ISE]
The judging of presentations was based on five criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technological novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/development plan, and presentation skills.
