
[date]2005.07.27[/date]
[title]PolyU wins international acclaim on alumni development and fund-raising[/title]
Concerted efforts of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on the development of alumni and fund-raising activities have recently won high acclaims in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards, organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). PolyU is the first institution from Hong Kong to receive such honours.
With its innovative alumni and fund-raising initiatives, the University were presented with four coveted awards, including a Gold Medal and a Grand Gold Medal in the "Alumni Relations Programmes" category in honour of its "Greening HK by PolyU Alumni" activity in November 2004; a Silver Medal in the "Fund-raising Programmes" category for the Chinese publication of "Ming Tao" in January 2005; and a Bronze Medal in the "Special Events" category for the programme, "An Evening with Prof. Jackie Chan", in January 2004.
Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President, who is also in charge of the University's alumni and fundraising development, said, "PolyU is proud to have won these honours. The CASE awards not only recognized the University's commitment and achievement in alumni affairs and institutional advancement but also reaffirmed the solidarity of the PolyU community."
Grooming more than 200,000 alumni over its past 67 years, the University successfully mobilized 1,000 alumni, their friends and families to plant more than 5,000 shrubs at the King's Park on 7 November 2004. Known as "Greening Hong Kong by PolyU Alumni", the event aimed at fostering the alumni's fellowship and the community's effort for the betterment of Hong Kong. With overwhelming support received last year, the event will be organized again in this coming November.
A preferred university in the eyes of students and public, PolyU published a Chinese book named "Ming Tao" in this January, featuring interviews of 50 distinguished persons from various sectors of Hong Kong, ranging from writers, industrialists, entrepreneurs to politicians, for their stories of success. This special publication raised around $1.5 million for the University's Student Development Fund. The second edition is now under plan and is scheduled to release early next year.
In recognition of international movie star Jackie Chan's contribution to the tourism and entertainment industry of Hong Kong, "An Evening with Prof. Jackie Chan" was staged on 29 January 2004. The glamorous evening began with the University's conferment of the title of Honorary Professor of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management on Jackie, followed by a premiere of the movie Traces of a Dragon - a documentary of Jackie's success story, and a gala dinner well-attended by students, alumni, friends and supporters of PolyU.
An international organization with more than 3,000 institutional members, CASE is set to promote effectiveness of alumni relations, communications and fund-raising efforts among educational institutions. This year's Circle of Excellence Awards attracted more than 2,800 entries from 560 institutions, competing in the areas of alumni relations, fund-raising, advancement services, public relations, electronic and new media, publications, periodicals, photography, and design.
