
[date]2005.07.28[/date]
[title]New Website launched for Centre for Professional and Business English[/title]
The Centre for Professional and Business English (CPBE), a leader in business English training and a sub-unit of the School of Professional Education and Executive Department of PolyU, has recently launched a fresh new look for its Website.
The Website is designed to guide different audiences to the provision that fits their needs. One of the target audiences is individual learners who are looking for programmes to enhance their business English competency . To ensure learners are matched with the right course, CPBE invites applicants to sit a short test and have an informal interview with an experienced English language trainer before course enrolment.
Specialist language courses are also offered by CPBE for professionals, such as accountants, tax specialists, auditors and engineers, to help them master English more effectively for the workplace. These courses count towards the professionals' continuing professional development (CPD) requirements stipulated by professional associations. Other CPBE programmes in high demand are language and methodology programmes for serving teachers as well as newcomers to the teaching profession.
As the largest course provider for the Language Proficiency Assessment (LPATE) for the primary and secondary school English teachers in Hong Kong, CPBE has offered courses for over 5,000 teachers since 2001. To help local English teachers to meet the LPATE requirement set by the Education and Manpower Bureau, more preparation modules are on offer for the teachers.
Ms Alison Ridley, Assistant Programme Director of CPBE, said 'Having engaged in the professional English training sector for more than 15 years, CPBE has a bank of training expertise and knowledge of exactly what adults in different workplaces need. By giving our website a new look and reorganisation, we hope users will obtain information of our programmes and consultancy services in a more user-friendly and efficient way.'
Apart from individual learners, companies who are looking for a language consultant to enhance the English language efficiency of their companies are also encouraged to approach CPBE. A leader in business English training, CPBE provides a one-stop service by first learning about the corporate culture of the client company and then identifying the language needs of the target group through on-site visits, interviews and data collection. Practical training solutions are then proposed to the client in accordance with the set budget.
For more details, please visit CPBE's new website at www.cpbe.polyu.edu.hk.
