
[date]2005.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU and HK Design Centre Jointly Organise 1st International Conference on Brand Strategies and Management[/title]
World-class experts on branding and industry leaders are gathering in Hong Kong later this month to attend the first International Conference on Brand Strategies and Management, which is jointly organised by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University ("PolyU")'s Faculty of Business and the Hong Kong Design Centre.
The conference, to be held on 19 November (Saturday) in the Sheraton Hotel, will be officially opened by Mr Victor Lo, Member of the Executive Council and Chairman of both PolyU Council and the Hong Kong Design Centre's Board of Directors; Mr Fred Lam, Executive Director of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business said, "PolyU is honoured to host this international conference which aims to promote brand management and design innovation activities to multi-national executives in Hong Kong and the Region."
"This event will provide an important platform for the participants to meet international experts in brand management and keep abreast of the latest practices and research. It will also help them identify global trends and opportunities in developing brand strategies and explore the use of innovative design in brand building and enhancing brand image and equity," she added.
The morning session will feature two keynote addresses, including Prof. Kevin Keller, EB Osborn Professor of Marketing of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College in the US; and Mr. Wally Olins, co-founder of the world-renowned Wolff Olins and chairman of the company until 1998.
Prof. Keller is a prolific academic and has also served as brand consultant for some of the world's most successful brands, including Walt Disney, Nike, Procter &amp; Gamble, and Starbucks. He will draw on his wealth of experience and deliver the presentation on "Building Strong Brands: Lessons from the World's Strongest Brands."
The other keynote speaker Mr. Olins is currently Chairman of Saffron Brand Consultants based in London and Madrid. His book "Corporate Identity" has become a classic reference for academia and industry, and he has also advised many of the world's leading organizations, including Prudential and Renault and Volkswagen, on corporate identity, branding, communication and related issues.
During the afternoon session, Prof. Leslie de Chernatony; Professor of Brand Marketing and Director of the Centre for Research in Brand Marketing from the Birmingham Business School of the University of Birmingham, will deliver a speech on "Key Considerations in Services Brand Building". Prof. John Davis, Head of Business Development at Singapore Management University, will also deliver the presentation on "Brand Ambition"; while Dr Tony Ap?ria, Assistant Professor of Stockholm University's School of Business, will speak on "Brand Reality Model on Brand Management : Cases of IKEA and Sony Ericsson."
Notably, many industry leaders will also share their insights and exchange ideas on brand strategies at the practitioner forums of the conference. These speakers include Mr. Simon Leung, Regional President of Motorola (Asia Pacific) Ltd.; Mr. Zhang Ji Wen, Group Assistant General Manager of China Vanke Co, Ltd.; Mr. Peter Lau, Chairman and CEO of Giordano International Ltd.; Ms. Bonnie Brooks, President of The Lane Crawford Joyce Group; and Mr. Charlie Steward-Cox, General Manager, Marketing, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
The conference is staged as a flagship programme of this year's Business of Design Week. It is sponsored by the Gold Peak Industries Ltd, Motorola (Asia Pacific) Ltd., the Hong Kong Institute of Marketing, and Hong Kong Trade Development Council.
It is also supported by the following organisations (in alphabetical order): Hong Kong Association for Customer Service Excellence, Hong Kong Brand Development Council, Hong Kong Designer's Association, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong Post, Superbrands (HK), the Association of Accredited Advertising Agents of Hong Kong, the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong, the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, the Hong Kong Advertisers Association, the Hong Kong Management Association, the Hong Kong Retail Management Association, the International Association of Business Communicators/Hong Kong, and the Trade and Industry Department's Support and Consultation Centre for SMEs
The Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC), which co-organised this conference with PolyU, is a non-profit organisation founded by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations. It was established in 2001 to drive Hong Kong to become a highly competitive, internationally recognised source of innovative products and design talents. The Centre has been serving as a vital link between business and designer professions in Hong Kong.
For registration and further details, please call 2766 7368 or visit the conference website at www.polyu.edu.hk/mm/ICBSM.
