
[date]2006.09.16[/date]
[title]SPEED offers tailored training programme for Li &amp; Fung merchandisers[/title]
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University signed a collaboration agreement with Li &amp; Fung (Trading) Limited yesterday (15 September) to offer an in-house training programme in merchandising. Upon completion of the programme, trainees will receive the Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) Diploma awarded by PolyU SPEED. SPEED is operated by College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE) which is an affiliate of PolyU.
The agreement was signed by Mr Bruce Rockowitz, President of Li &amp; Fung (Trading) Limited, and Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of CPCE, in the witness of Dr Victor Fung Kwok-king, Chairman of Li &amp; Fung Group and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President cum CPCE Council Chairman.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, President Prof. Poon remarked, 'We are delighted to partner with Li &amp; Fung, a leader in global supply chain management, to help train its staff as merchandising specialists. SPEED shares PolyU's mission in forming dedicated partnerships with businesses and industries for the continuous advancement of society. Since its establishment, SPEED has been providing in-house training programmes of various natures and delivery modes to upgrade the knowledge and skills of different workforce.'  
'Human capital is the most valuable asset in our corporation, and it is vital to the growth of our business,' said Dr Fung. 'We strive to enhance our staff's professionalism through comprehensive training and development programmes. We also have the vision to benchmark our merchandising training with world-class training programmes, and PolyU is well known for its application-oriented teaching to nurture professional talent. Therefore, we have complete trust in the success of this programme.' 
This training programme is managed by SPEED while teaching is conducted by the faculty from PolyU's Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering (ISE) and Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) in their own areas of expertise. The curriculum of the programme is specially designed according to the merchandiser competency requirements of Li &amp; Fung. High-quality teaching staff of ISE and ITC, supported by state-of-the-art learning and research facilities, will no doubt bring maximum benefit to the trainees of this programme. The 20-month programme is comprised of 12 subjects covering the complete merchandising workflow. They include material sourcing, sample submission, shipping, trading, vendor coordination, product development and costing from fundamental to intermediate and advanced levels. Over 30 Li &amp; Fung staff are currently enrolled in this programme. 
In line with SPEED's mission of promoting lifelong learning, this programme is offered under the Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) to provide flexibility in accumulating credit for further studies. 
       
