
[date]2005.11.16[/date]
[title]PolyU and CII-HK release joint report on healthy buildings[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has since September 2003 teamed up with the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK) to conduct a study to formulate measures for the implementation of healthy residential buildings as a post-SARS precautionary measure. Entitled "Solutions Implementation for Healthy Buildings in Hong Kong", the joint research project was completed after 12 months' study, and the report was officially released yesterday (16 November) after consolidating views and inputs from the industry.
The followings are some key recommendations of the study, taken into account the feedback from the industry:
(1) General considerationsAlthough it is not possible to establish a direct causal relationship between building parameters and an occupant's health, the regression analysis indicates that a statistically significant correlation exists between the condition of residents' health and the built environment, in particular the building orientation, the level of the flat above ground, and the immediate outdoor environment of the flat.
(2) Indoor environmental quality controlBuildings should be designed and constructed for minimum air leakage, they must include purposely-designed features to provide a desirable level (not less than 0.6 ACH) of natural ventilation. The re-entrant of a residential building is recognized as a contaminated area, which should be used for air exhaust only. To achieve this goal, trickle ventilators could be installed to control "vent-out" only to re-entrants.
(3) Drainage design and installation worksGood housekeeping (filling the floor drain traps periodically) can help to address the problem of drying out of the trap seal induced by current drainage design. The current design of floor drain traps should not be revised without careful evaluation of the performance of alternative design. The 'common trap' design has been used in various overseas countries for many years and its potential for use in Hong Kong to establish a problem-free, fool-proof design should be further explored. The provision of cross vents and the separation of drainage stacks in upper and lower zones are recommended.
(4) Refuse management systems and property managementAn in-depth study on the costs and benefits of Automatic Refuse Collection Systems, and the actual impact of the refuse collection methods on health should be conducted to decide whether the systems should be promoted in future.
(5) ImplementationThe research team suggests the Government should consider the mandatory requirements of the provisions of: a minimum required level of background natural ventilation rate to habitable spaces under all situations; openings/ windows to external walls of lift lobby and common corridor to induce desirable natural ventilation; louvres in every toilet door/ kitchen door to facilitate air flow through a desirable path; and the separation of drainage stack for the lower floors (to include the lowest 5 floors) for better safety margin against backflow.
The project was the first large-scale collaborative research jointly funded by PolyU and CII-HK. It aimed to identify and evaluate factors that affect the implementation of healthy residential buildings in Hong Kong, to develop guiding solutions and to propose a mandatory or self-regulatory framework for the implementation, in an attempt to avoid risks of communicable diseases transmission in future. A holistic approach was adopted to ensure various aspects were critically and fairly considered, including government regulatory framework, design standards, construction quality and management, indoor and surrounding environment of residential buildings, as well as social and economic factors.
To ensure its well running, the study was overseen by a research supervisory board headed by Prof. Andrew Baldwin, Dean of Faculty of Construction and Land Use, and Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, both from PolyU; and Dr Nicolas Yeung, Director of CII-HK. The study was conducted by a 13-member research team, led by Prof. Edwin Chan of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate, drawing together the expertise from researchers of the University's departments of Building Services Engineering, Civil and Structural Engineering, and School of Nursing.
In addition, a CII-HK Task Force was formed to collect inputs from experienced practitioners to ensure thoroughness and applicability of the study. Chaired by Mr Francis Law of the Hong Kong Housing Society, the Task Force consisted of 11 professionals from leading organizations.
PolyU and CII-HK will be organizing a Conference on Healthy Building, Community Health and the Built Environment at the Conrad Hong Kong Hotel on 30 November. During the conference, the research findings will be shared with the academics, construction stakeholders, medical practitioners, policy makers and members of professional institutions, aiming to further promote the awareness of the importance of a healthy built environment.
