
[date]2006.09.09[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold the Fourteenth Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, yesterday (9 September) held its Fourteenth Congregation on the PolyU campus. The Congregation was officiated at by Prof. Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of Warwick Manufacturing Group and Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President. Mr Kenneth Ting Woo-shou, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, was the Guest-of-Honour. Addressing the ceremony, Mr Tzang congratulated the graduates on the successful completion of the programme.  He said, 'The IEBMP has nurtured a significant pool of versatile and talented professionals with engineering and business management knowledge over the years. Many IEBMP graduates have assumed leading positions in their professions and made significant contributions to the continuous development of the local and global economy.' First launched in 1990, the IEBMP is a unique engineering business management scheme comprising three tiers, namely Engineering Doctorate Programme (EngD), Integrated Graduate Development Scheme (IGDS) which offers Master's and Postgraduate Awards, and Integrated Manager Development Scheme (IMDS) which offers Post-experience Diploma and Certificate awards.  This year, the Congregation saluted a total of 111 graduates including 104 graduates from IGDS and seven graduates from IMDS. By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management and advanced manufacturing technique.  In recent years, the number of students from business sector increase sharply in view of the economic change. Managers and executives from business sector are aware the importance of understanding business operation and technology development of engineering and industry in enhancing corporate competitiveness.  The success of IEBMP saw its expansion into the Chinese mainland. In 2000, PolyU joined hands with the Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) to offer IGDS programmes in Wuhan. A dedicated unit named the HUST-HKPolyU Institute of Manufacturing Excellence has been set up to explore further provision of training programmes in the mainland. 
