
[date]2006.01.19[/date]
[title]Over 300 PolyU staff honoured for loyal service[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented Long Service Awards to a total of 302 staff members, including its President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, in appreciation of their loyal service to the Institution over the years yesterday (19 January). Officiating at the ceremony was Mr Victor Lo, Chairman of PolyU Council, while Dr Alice Lam, Chairman of University Grants Committee (UGC), was the Guest of Honour.
Among this year's awardees, 163 staff members have served in our Institution for 15 years, 46 have served for 20 years, 41 for 25 years, and 52 for as long as 30 years or more. Each awardee was presented a certificate and a souvenir as a token of appreciation from the University. Highlight of the ceremony was the presentation of the Long Service Award to Prof. Poon, who has served PolyU for 15 years, by Dr Lam.
Addressing at the ceremony, Mr Lo said, "On behalf of the University Council, I would like to express my sincere appreciation and congratulations to each and every recipient. It is their collective efforts which have helped realize the most impressive progress of PolyU."
Mr Lo also commended Prof. Poon for his dedicated service and visionary leadership demonstrated throughout his past 15 years of presidency. Joining the Institution as Director of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1991, Prof. Poon has steered the Institution through a period of significant developments, including its transformation from polytechnic to university. It was recognized in UGC's 1999 Management Review that, 'the President has clearly been instrumental in guiding through the transition period.'
With Prof. Poon's commitment in leading the University to fulfil its role in the provision of application-oriented education and research, PolyU was publicly commended by UGC as a top performer in its Performance and Role-related activities and was given an additional bonus grant of $20 million in 2004.
According to Mr Lo, Prof. Poon has also bravely taken up the challenge of securing additional resources for the continued development of the University in the face of funding cuts by the Government in recent years. During the period from March 2003 to June 2004, PolyU gathered contributions from more than 4,500 individuals and organizations, raising over $215 million which were eligible for the Government's matching grants, bringing the total funds raised to more than $400 million. Mr Lo reiterated that, while the collective efforts of PolyU members attributed to the success of the University's fundraising drives, a large number of donations were secured through the untiring efforts of Prof. Poon.
In addition, Prof. Poon has built a competent management team and cultivated a harmonious and open atmosphere across the campus. The high rating of 8.1 (with 10 being the best score) he received in a 360-degree performance review conducted in 2001 at his suggestion, testifies well to the high level of acceptance he enjoys among all sectors of the PolyU community.
The Long Service Award scheme has been introduced since 1990 to foster a sense of belonging among PolyU staff. The award presentation ceremony provides a warm gathering for the long-serving staff and an opportunity for the University to publicly acknowledge their years of dedication and devotion.
