
[date]2006.09.27[/date]
[title]PolyU President greets 94 scholarships recipients[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has awarded scholarships to a total of 94 first-year-first-degree students from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas countries under its new scholarship scheme. 
The awardees include 21 outstanding local students who achieved excellent results in the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by the international standards. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance per year, have been granted to the recipients.  
The University has also provided full scholarships to 66 mainland students who achieved impressive results in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination. This year PolyU received 9,600 applications from mainland students, a more-than-threefold increase from last year's 2,700 applications. Among them, nearly 70 per cent met the entrance requirements of state key universities. PolyU subsequently admitted 237 mainland students, as compared to 180 last year. They are attending a one-year foundation programme to prepare for first degree studies. In addition, PolyU has awarded full scholarships to seven overseas students. The scholarship recipients were welcomed by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and other senior members at a tea reception held in their honour yesterday (27 September) on the university campus.
Addressing the audience, Prof. Poon said: "The University is as good as its people, and our scholarship recipients are undoubtedly an important asset of our Institution. I hope the award of full scholarships has given you encouragement and support to embark on an exciting study journey at PolyU. But this is just the beginning."
"Nowadays, the lifespan of knowledge has been significantly shortened by the pace of technological advancement. It is therefore very important that you realize the importance in developing your generic skills such as leadership, communication skills, and the ability to think independently and critically while studying at PolyU," stressed Prof. Poon. 
He added that PolyU would afford each student with an opportunity to take up internship or participate in an exchange programme during their university years. By taking part in these schemes, students would be able to develop a global perspective and set sights on the whole world. 
The University has also achieved further internalization through the intake of non-local students and exchange students. This year PolyU has admitted 237 students from the Chinese mainland and 11 overseas students from eight countries and territories. 
Currently, more than 230 students from 17 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester. 
The University also plans to receive another group of about 250 international students and sends forth an equivalent number of PolyU students abroad during the second semester.
