
[date]2005.11.23[/date]
[title]First HK-based virtual university celebrates its fifth anniversary[/title]
More than 100 students, alumni and friends of the Hong Kong CyberU (HKCyberU), the online education arm of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), celebrated its fifth anniversary at a special reception held on PolyU campus yesterday (23 November). Officiating at the ceremony were Mr Linus Cheung Wing-lam and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President. Addressing at the reception, Prof. Poon said, 'PolyU is committed to providing learning opportunities to individuals for enhancing personal competitiveness and career advancement. The establishment of HKCyberU is a major breakthrough in the local tertiary education. Riding on the development of the Internet, HKCyberU strives to help learners, busy working executives and professionals in particular, to pursue quality and professional education through part-time and Web-based studies with maximum flexibility, practicality and convenience.' Founded in 2000, HKCyberU is the first virtual university in Hong Kong, supported by PolyU's expertise in professional education and PCCW's telecommunication and broadband capabilities. Over the years, the online university has gained recognition among learners and it became a wholly-owned subsidiary of PolyU in 2003. To date, more than 5,000 students have enrolled in the wide range of programmes offered by the institution. Apart from local students, there are also students from the Chinese mainland, the US, Macau and Taiwan. Apart from celebrating the success of its online education, the reception also saw the inauguration of PolyU'HKCyberU Alumni Association, with Mr Edmund Yip as the first elected President. In addition, scholarships were presented to 17 students who scored outstanding academic results during their study in various master's degree programmes offered by PolyU via HKCyberU. HKCyberU offers quality professional programmes, mainly at postgraduate level, in collaboration with various PolyU departments and renowned universities on the mainland and abroad, leading to PolyU and other academic awards. To name a few, HKCyberU has collaborated with Australia's Edith Cowan University in offering the first Master of Security Management programme in Asia, with UK's Heriot-Watt University for the Master of Business Administration programme, with East China Normal University for the master's programmes in China insurance business, commercial bank management, property and real estate, securities and investment in China. HKCyberU also offers programmes covering a wide range of areas such as business intelligence, Chinese traditional medicine, e-commerce, IT management and environmental management. The programmes are offered in a blended mode which combines the flexibility of Web-based learning and personal guidance of face-to-face learning and teaching activities. Without the constraints of time and space, learners will be able to pursue further studies tailored to their personal needs and acquire recognized university and professional qualifications, thus enhancing their personal and career advancement. 
