
[date]2006.02.09[/date]
[title]PolyU celebrates inauguration of new overseas association in Singapore[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has celebrated the inauguration of its fifth overseas association in Singapore. Named the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Association (Singapore), the new body will unite PolyU graduates and past employees in Singapore and foster their links with the University. This is the fifth PolyU association founded overseas since 1997, on top of the four others in Western and Eastern Canada, Australia and the US. The inauguration of the new Association, held in Singapore on 21 January, was officiated at by Mr Lam Kam-kwong, Director of Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in Singapore, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of the University.  This memorable event also attracted about 60 alumni and guests and representatives from various organizations, including the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, Kowloon Club and the Hong Kong Singapore Business Association. Friends from other PolyU overseas associations and alumni associations of other Hong Kong universities in Singapore also attended the dinner.Members of the Organizing Committee of the Association are as follows: Chairman: Mr Patrick Wong (Business, 1979)Vice Chairman: Mr Kwok Ying-man (Computing, 1982)Secretary: Mr Newton Lee (Electrical Engineering, 1989)Assistant Secretary: Ms Kammy Chim (Hotel &amp; Tourism Management, 1996)Honorary Treasurer: Mr Steven Tsui (Computing, 1993)Members: Mr Anthony Yiu (Textiles &amp; Clothing, 1965)Mr Charles Chau (Electrical Engineering, 1976)Ms Patricia Tsui (Business, 1990)Ms Elaine Leung (Design, 2000)Ms Carmen Lee (Hotel &amp; Tourism Management, 1999)The formation of the Association was initiated by Prof. Poon and some graduates residing in the Singapore during Prof. Poon's visit to Singapore last summer. An Organizing Committee was soon formed in Singapore, leading to the successful establishment of the new Association within six months. All graduates and former staff residing in Singapore are welcomed to join the association. Those who wish to obtain an application form to join the Association or more details about it, please send an e-mail to: alsing@polyu.edu.hk.
