
[date]2006.10.10[/date]
[title]PolyU broadens students&amp;#39; horizons through overseas exchange programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is organizing a series of activities to promote its  student exchange programme, introduce overseas study opportunities and enhance cultural exchange, between 10 and 12 October on campus.  Themed "Global Citizens with a Global Outlook", the event was kicked off at an opening ceremony held yesterday (10 October), with PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong as the officiating guest. In addition, representatives from the Consulates of Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, Switzerland, the UK and the US also officiated at the ceremony. Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said: "Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU has developed an extensive network with about 500 partner institutions located across some 35 countries. To help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University now works closely with more than 170 partner universities in 20 countries all over the world for its student exchange programme." This year, the University targets to send forth 500 local students abroad for exchange and receive a similar number of international students on campus. Currently, more than 230 students from 81 institutions in 17 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester. Compared to the figures of 40 inbound and 60 outbound students when the student exchange programme was first launched in 2001, there is a significant increase in the number of exchange students. Apart from expanding its student exchange programme, the University also strives to achieve internationalization through the recruitment of non-local students. This year, PolyU has admitted 250 students from the Chinese mainland, as compared to 180 last year.  Organized by the Academic Exchange and Collaboration Office, the event comprises a variety of activities, including booth exhibition by the consulates, roadshow, games and cultural performances. In addition, the "International Flea Market" has been launched this year, in which local and international students are encouraged to exchange with each other items that represent the culture of their home countries, providing a special platform for students to learn different cultures.  An international cultural night will also be held on 12 October at the Student Halls of Residence for the local and non-local students to get together and share the cultures of different countries. Over 1,000 exchange and non-local students from more than 30 countries currently studying at PolyU will participate in the series of activities.      
