
[date]2006.10.16[/date]
[title]Over 1,000 HKCC graduates articulated to degree study[/title]
Over 1,000 of the latest batch of graduates of the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) continue their degree studies either in Hong Kong or overseas, while 14 per cent of those who engage in employment earn a monthly salary of $10,000 or more, according to its latest graduate survey.
Conducted by the PolyU-affiliated HKCC this September, this graduate survey captured the feedback of 1,596 respondents out of this year's 1,833 graduates, representing a response rate of around 90 per cent. The findings show that about 1,100 students (nearly 70 per cent of the respondents) further their degree studies in either full-time or part-time mode. As compared to last year's figure, the number of students pursuing further studies has increased by more than 320 this year. They include graduates from the Engineering, Statistics and Computing for Business, and Information Technology Associate Degree programmes, which articulation rates are 97 per cent, 88 per cent and 85 per cent respectively. Furthermore, the number of graduates studying in government-funded programmes offered by local universities has increased nearly 50 per cent to 394 this year. 
Director of HKCC Dr Simon Leung remarked, "It is encouraging to learn that such large proportion of our graduates enjoy good articulation prospects and continue to advance in academic development after graduation. The high articulation rate of our graduates has become the driving force behind our commitment to provide high quality associate degree education." 
Among the graduates who pursue further studies, 39 per cent have taken up degree programmes offered by PolyU; 20 per cent are studying in PolyU associated institutions, including PolyU-affiliated School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) and overseas universities which offer programmes locally in collaboration with SPEED. Also, 42 per cent of those respondents continuing schooling received two or more offers for their articulation study. Furthermore, over 100 students articulated to degree study right after completing year one of the associate degree programmes.
According to the survey, seven per cent of the respondents are working and studying at the same time while 19 per cent are in full-time employment. For those graduates who have entered the job market, 96 per cent found their first job within three months upon graduation and 49 per cent had two or more job offers. Out of these working graduates, 70 per cent enjoy a monthly salary in the range of $7,000 to $9,999 while 14 per cent earn $10,000 or more per month. These facts indicate that HKCC's quality graduates are widely accepted by employers.
HKCC graduates secured jobs in different professions, including finance, insurance, social services, education, wholesale, retail, import and export trades as well as commerce and business.
