
[date]2005.12.07[/date]
[title]PolyU invites applications for a wide range of programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is now inviting applications for its 2006/07 full-time degree, sub-degree and postgraduate programmes. To give prospective applicants first-hand information on the University's postgraduate programmes, a series of seminars will be organized by various academic departments on the Info Day on 10 December (Saturday) from 2.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. on campus.Themed 'Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU', the Info Day entitled 'Postgraduate Study at PolyU' will give prospective applicants in-depth details of its postgraduate programmes through over 60 information seminars organized by six Faculties namely Applied Science and Textiles, Business, Communication, Construction and Land Use, Engineering, Health and Social Sciences, and the independent School of Hotel and Tourism Management. For more details on the event, please visit the official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/study.Commencing on 16 December, 83 taught postgraduate programmes will be on offer, with nine new programmes or specialisms in response to the rising demand for trained professionals in emerging industries like medical imaging, environmental management and engineering. These programmes are: • MEng in Electrical Engineering (mixed-mode)• MEng in Electronic and Information Engineering (mixed-mode)• MEng in Engineering (mixed-mode) • MEng in Industrial and Systems Engineering (mixed-mode)• MEng in Mechanical Engineering (mixed-mode)• MSc/PgD in Environmental Management and Engineering• MSc/PgD in Health Care (Medical Imaging and Radiation Technology)• MA in Social Work (Social Service Administration)• MA in Teaching Chinese as a Foreign LanguageIn 2006/07, a total of 47 full-time degree and 18 full-time sub-degree programmes are open for applications until 18 January and 18 April for local and non-local applicants respectively. Among them, a total of 15 full-time double degree programmes combining the strengths of different academic disciplines will be offered, meaning that students can obtain a second degree in a different academic discipline by spending an extra year on a self-financed basis.Starting last academic year, all PolyU full-time Bachelor's degree programmes has included a mandatory work-integrated education component, through which students will gain valuable workplace learning experience during their studies at PolyU. For more application and programme information, please visit the dedicated webpage www.polyu.edu.hk/study. Alternatively, please visit our Admissions Application Form Distribution Counter (Room P202). The counter is open from 9:00am to 6.30pm on weekdays and 9:00am to noon on Saturdays (except public holidays). Applications can be submitted online at www.polyu.edu.hk/admission or by post. As all applications received will be considered on a rolling basis, applicants are advised to submit their applications as early as possible.For more information, please call Enquiry Hotline: 2333 0600.
