
[date]2005.11.30[/date]
[title]HKCC presents $500,000 scholarship to outstanding students[/title]
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, hosted a scholarship presentation ceremony on campus yesterday (30 November) to honour a total of 98 Associate Degree students who had made outstanding academic performance in year 2004/05. Officiating at the ceremony were Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC; Dr Chan Shui-duen, Head of the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies (CBS); and Dr Shae Wan-chaw, Associate Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences (APSS) of the University. More than 100 students, parents and teaching staff members attended the ceremony. Addressing at the ceremony, HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung said, 'The Outstanding Student Award Scholarship scheme has been introduced since 2003 to pay tribute to distinguished students who have worked hard to gain excellent performance in their studies. I am very happy to note that the number of scholarship recipients this year has more than doubled compared to last year's figure, showing that more of our Associate Degree students have excelled in their academic pursuits.'This year, HKCC presented 15 Gold, 30 Silver and 53 Bronze awards to students of its 11 Associate Degree programmes, including Applied Social Sciences, Beauty and Health Therapy, Bilingual Communication, Business, China Business, English for Business Communication, Design, Engineering, Information Technology, Health Studies, and Statistics and Computing. Each gold winner received a scholarship grant of $12,000 while silver and bronze awardees received $6,000 and $2,500 respectively, totaling the scholarship amount to about $500,000.In addition, ten students of the Associate Degree in Bilingual Communication were awarded the 'CBS Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' which was sponsored by the CBS department; while another three students were awarded the 'APSS Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' sponsored by the APSS department. Each CBS and APSS award recipient was presented $2,000 and $5,000 scholarship respectively. In this academic year, to further fulfill its mission in inspiring students' potentials through holistic education, HKCC has introduced new scholarships and student enriching initiatives, totaling more than four million dollars. The wide range of personal development and learning activities include: complementary study programmes, leadership training, mentorship, English and Putonghua enhancement programmes, community services, career development workshops, international summer school and overseas study tours. The scholarship schemes and learning activities will not only help recognize outstanding students, but also promote all-round education, internationalization and cultural exchange. 
