
[date]2006.10.17[/date]
[title]PolyU-affiliated HKCC and SPEED send forth 2,300 graduates[/title]
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and the School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED), operated under The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s College of Professional and Continuing Education, yesterday (17 October) held their fourth Joint Graduation Ceremony which sent forth over 2,300 graduates.
Among the latest batch of graduates, 1,833 graduated from HKCC's 13 Associate Degree programmes, namely, Applied Social Sciences, Arts, Beauty and Health Therapy, Bilingual Communication, Business, China Business, Design, Engineering, English for Business Communication, Health Studies, Information Technology, Science and Statistics and Computing for Business. The largest cohort of 1,038 graduates came from the Associate in Business, including 13 mainland students who completed their study in the Zhuhai campus.
Among the 468 SPEED graduates, 372 were from its top-up Bachelor's degree programmes in Applied and Media Arts, Housing Management, Marketing and Public Relations as well as Travel Industry Management. Another 96 graduates were presented with various awards, including Diploma in Human Resource Management, Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) Diplomas in Industrial Management (Print Media), Human Resource Management and Information Technologies for E-Commerce, as well as various PCE qualifications awarded through the Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM).  These include Bachelor of Arts/Science, Associate of Arts/Science, Diploma and Certificate. 
Addressing the graduates, Director of SPEED Dr Dennis Chan said, "SPEED shares PolyU's commitment in providing practical training for students. The results of the latest graduate survey are very encouraging and show that SPEED's graduates are highly competitive in terms of their first salary and the time needed to secure the first job. 
"In future, SPEED will continue to work closely with industries to provide ample students placement and mentorship opportunities so as to get our students ready to work in different professions."
Speaking at the ceremony, Director of HKCC Dr Simon Leung remarked, "HKCC graduates enjoy very good prospects according to the graduate survey conducted this September with a response rate of around 90 per cent. About 1,100 students (nearly 70 per cent of the respondents) are continuing their degree studies either in Hong Kong or overseas. As compared to last year's figure, the number of students pursuing further studies has increased by more than 320 this year. Also, the number of graduates studying in government-funded programmes offered by local universities has increased nearly 50 per cent to 394 this year.'
The graduate survey results also show that, for those associate degree graduates who engage in full-time or part-time employment, 96 per cent found their first job within three months upon graduation. Out of these working graduates, 70 per cent enjoy a monthly salary within the range of $7,000 to $9,999 while 14 per cent earn $10,000 or more per month.  
Established in 2001, HKCC is a leader in associate degree education. Currently, it has a student population of 4,000 and offers 22 programmes covering a wide range of disciplines. They include arts, applied social sciences, beauty and health therapy, bilingual communication, design, engineering, English for business communication, health studies, information technology, sciences, social policy and administration, statistics and computing for business as well as the new Associate in Business Scheme with 10 different business streams introduced in this academic year. 
Founded in 1999, SPEED is a pioneer of lifelong learning, through the provision of quality programmes from sub-degree to doctoral levels in different study modes. The current student enrolment is 3,000. This year, SPEED offers 22 programmes leading to awards of PolyU SPEED or overseas universities. The PolyU SPEED award top-up degree programmes are Bachelor of Arts in Applied and Media Arts, Business (Finance/International Business), Housing Management, Marketing and Public Relations, Travel Industry Management and Policing and Public Order. 
        
