
[date]2005.12.19[/date]
[title]PolyU Scientist wins Science and Technology Progress Award in Surveying and Mapping, China[/title]
Prof. John Shi Wen-zhong of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, a pioneering scientist studying the uncertainty theory to Geographical Information Science (GIS) and remote sensing, has been recently bestowed with the National Science and Technology Progress Award in Surveying and Mapping (First-class Prize) in recognition of his remarkable achievements in advancing the studies of GIS and remote sensing.
Jointly presented by the State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping and the Chinese Society of Geodesy Photogrammetry and Cartography, the coveted award is the most prestigious honour given by state authorities in recognition of research advancement in this field. This year the selection committee has identified about 30 projects for the presentation of prizes which range from first to third class; and Prof. Shi is the only Hong Kong scientist bestowed with first-class honour. This is also the first time such a first-class award is given to a scholar from Hong Kong (as the primary contributor) and a university from Hong Kong as the primary contributing organization.
In advancing the study of spatial data quality and uncertainty theory, Prof. Shi has brought together a large research team comprising members from Tongji University, the Chinese Academy of Surveying and Mapping, Wuhan University, Information Engineering University and Beijing University.
The State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping highly commended Prof. Shi for his pioneering work of establishing principle of modeling uncertainties in spatial data and analysis. He is also renowned for discovering the theoretical defects of the ε-band model, which was commonly used by scientists for nearly 40 years. He developed a series of new mathematical models and improved solutions in this area. This breakthrough is considered setting the stage for the current research on uncertainty modeling in GIS.
The culminated efforts of Prof. Shi and his co-researchers have provided a solid foundation for modern GIS in terms of uncertainty theory for spatial data and analysis. The dynamic data models and mathematical analysis built upon this theory can greatly improve the accuracy and quality of spatial data, thereby promoting the further advancement of GIS in both theory and practices, such as digital city.
Prof. Shi is a prolific researcher. During over the past ten years, he has more than 300 research articles and over 10 books. His theory is now included in the syllabus of many higher education institutions in China and designated as a major subject of study.
His expertise is sought after at home and abroad. He chaired or participated over 50 projects in the last decade, for example, the project on uncertainty-based spatial data mining from Ministry of Science and Technology of China under the 973 program, the project on spatial information technology funded by Hong Kong Research Grant Council under Collaborative Research Center program, develop quality model for topographic data, Lands Department, HKSAR. He is contributing a chapter on spatial data quality for the classic reference 'GIS Manual' edited by American Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing.
His theory on position error modeling of lines in GIS was used by in Europe for modeling errors of land used maps in Italy. Some of research findings from him and his collaborators on spatial data evaluation are used in the 'Specifications for Digital Geological Data Evaluation' of China Geological Survey.
