
[date]2006.09.19[/date]
[title]Top HK and Mainland Students attracted to PolyU's BBA Programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Programme has scaled new heights this year, with more and more outstanding Hong Kong and mainland students attracted to the programme.
PolyU's BBA in Accounting and Finance, established merely two years ago, has become one of the most sought-after programmes of its kind in Hong Kong by outstanding students. It ranks among the top in comparable programmes, in terms of the average of the two best HKALE scores of admittees ' the standard used by Universities Grants Committee (UGC) to measure students' academic quality across all UGC-funded tertiary institutions.
"This shows that our BBA in Accounting and Finance is a top quality programme offered by PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance, the only school in Hong Kong that combines the two disciplines; the programme well meets the needs of students and professional communities, especially taking into consideration that the programme has enjoyed only two-year history," said Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean, Faculty of Business.
The University's undergraduate accounting programme is the most well-established and reputed accounting programme in Hong Kong. BBA in Accounting and Finance, however, is a relatively new programme combining specialization in both accounting and finance.
PolyU's BBA in Accounting and Finance has drawn top students not only from Hong Kong, but also from the Chinese mainland. There are more than 2,000 mainland applicants for the programme, and the admission rate is only two per cent, which is another indication of top-notch students being attracted to the programme.
All 41 mainland students admitted to the programme are cream-of-the-crop students. Fifteen of them are awarded scholarships because of their outstanding academic qualities, and the rest fee-paying students have average Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) scores that could have admitted them to prestigious state key universities in the Chinese mainland, yet they have chosen PolyU.
Overall, 120 mainland students have been admitted to the Faculty of Business's undergraduate programmes spanning from Accounting and Finance, Marketing and Management to Logistics, and 39 of them have received entry scholarships.
Prof Judy Tsui says: "BBA programme is PolyU's top programme, having attracted students of the best academic quality, and a high number of top quality applicants from the Chinese mainland. We will strive to continuously improve the learning experience of the students at the Faculty, focusing on our core value 'Qualified for the Real World'."
