
[date]2006.07.17[/date]
[title]HKCC and British Council team up to sharpen Associate Degree students&amp;#39; English language skills[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a leader in Associate Degree education, yesterday (17 July) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the British Council in offering free Preparatory Course for the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) examinations for HKCC's freshmen in the 2006/07 academic year. 
The MoU was signed by Dr Simon Leung, HKCC Director and Mr Peter Loughran, Acting Director English Language Services of the British Council. This pioneer partnership to provide IELTS Preparatory Course is the first of its kind in the local higher education sector. Starting this September, new students of HKCC are offered the opportunity to take the IELTS Preparatory Course for free.  The course consists of 24 hours of class time to be conducted by British Council teachers who are native-speakers (or have native speaker proficiency) holding internationally recognized English language teaching qualifications with full-time teaching experience.     Speaking at the signing ceremony, Dr Simon Leung said, "HKCC is dedicated to promote quality education and all-round academic and career development of aspiring students. We join forces with the British Council in organizing this IELTS Preparatory Course to help sharpen students' English language skills. IELTS is a highly renowned internationally recognized assessment of English language ability for both education and work purposes. Good scores in the IELTS examinations will no doubt facilitate students' advancement in studies and future employment." 
According to Mr Peter Loughran, "Promoting more effective learning and teaching of English is a core British Council objective. In Hong Kong we are well-known for our English teaching centres where we teach several thousands of young learners and adults per year. Our aim, though, is to reach every teacher and learner of English and to give them access to the skills, ideas and materials they need from the UK.  Our new collaboration with Hong Kong Community College takes this vision forward. IELTS is increasingly recognised worldwide as a reliable benchmark and having offered preparation courses for over ten years, helping thousands of students to enter educational programmes overseas, we are well placed to meet Hong Kong people's desire for self-development."
Under this collaboration, the British Council will develop the syllabus and teaching materials for the Preparatory Course. The lessons are specifically designed to equip students with IELTS test-taking skills for the four different papers according to the assessment criteria adopted by IELTS. The British Council will also closely monitor the students' progress and prepare a report for each course participant outlining his/her learning progress at the end of the course. 
HKCC, on the other hand, will provide its well-equipped teaching venues and facilities as well as follow up regularly with the British Council on the students' development and identify any special learning needs for individuals.
Application to the HKCC Associate Degree programmes is now open.  Successful applicants who completed the registration procedures on or before 22 July 2006 can enjoy free enrollment in the IELTS Preparatory Course. Information sessions of the course will be held on 18 &amp; 19 July 2006 at 2.30 ' 4.30 pm in QR402, Core R, PolyU campus.
IELTS is also a voluntary English proficiency assessment for students graduating from University Grants Committee (UGC)-funded institutions.  It is jointly managed by the British Council, the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate, and IDP Education Australia. Consisting of four parts, writing, listening, reading and speaking, this test is designed to assess the English standard of non-native speakers.
About the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC)HKCC is committed to providing quality associate degree programmes which aim at all-rounded development of students.  It has a strong team of 19 full-time English teachers dedicated to nurturing students and organizing various extra-curricular activities to promote the learning and use of English. HKCC supported the English Festival 2006 and organized the "English Survivor Competition", a contest in which more than 150 teams of local secondary school students raced against time to repeat tongue twisters, guess song lyrics and tell stories in English. HKCC's team of English experts has also produced a series of short videos to teach the application of English related to job interviews and career development. In addition, HKCC's English teachers regularly contribute articles to newspapers offering practical and easy-to-understand tips to improve English.
About British CouncilThe British Council is the United Kingdom's international organisation for educational opportunities and cultural relations.  We build mutually beneficial relationships and understanding between people in Hong Kong and the UK by meeting local needs through UK's strength in innovation.  The areas we focus on are creativity, education and civil society.  The British Council operates in 220 towns and cities in 110 countries, and is a non-political organisation.  In Hong Kong we established in 1948 and started providing English learning services since 1976.
