
[date]2005.11.04[/date]
[title]Jockey Club Summer Internship Programme benefits 846 students[/title]
More and more tertiary students are benefiting from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Summer Internship Programme (JCSIP) for Tertiary Students, with the number of participants increasing more than twofold from 262 in 2004 to 584 this year. Co-ordinated by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and jointly organised by eight publicly funded tertiary institutions, JCSIP aims to provide job placement opportunities for local university students. It was kicked off in 2004 with a donation of HK$16 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. A homecoming event was held yesterday (4 Nov) at the PolyU campus for students representatives to share their experience of participating in JCSIP. The ceremony was officiated by Ms Olga Chew, Charities Manager of The Hong Kong Jockey Club; and Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President (Student Development). Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Leung expressed profound gratitude to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust for making this meaningful programme a reality. He said internship is an effective and fruitful training for students. In addition to professional knowledge and hands-on experience, students are rewarded with friendship and social skills.These students come from various disciplines of eight UGC-funded institutions. With financial support from JCSIP, they were placed with companies and organisations in Mainland China and overseas to gain valuable working experience and broaden their horizon during the past summer.Among 600 students undertaking internships in the summer, about 500 were placed in Mainland cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Harbin and Guangzhou, while 100 undertook their internships in countries such as Australia, the United Kingdom, Sweden and the United States. Areas of internship included mass communication, information technology, legal, accounting and financial services, biochemistry and manufacturing. Prior to their departure, a preparatory training programme was held in May to equip them for the summer internship. A maximum subsidy of $7,000 and $16,000 respectively was granted to each student for placement on the Mainland and abroad. The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has long been supportive of various youth development programmes. The sponsorship for this major internship project fits well with the Jockey Club's vision of promoting continuous and practical development of our young people. For more details about JCSIP, please refer to the programme website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/sao/jcsip- End -
