
[date]2006.07.05[/date]
[title]PolyU Development Foundation established[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Development Foundation was officially inaugurated on 4 July with the support of more than 100 community leaders, industry friends and major associations.
The inauguration ceremony was officiated at by Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, PolyU Council Chairman, Sir Gordon Wu, Chairman of Board of the PolyU Development Foundation and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Victor Lo said, "We are impressed that just a few months after the establishment of the Foundation, more than HK$101 million has been raised. Together with donations received from other fund-raising activities, PolyU has raised $189 million during the period of Government's second matching grant, and received a matching grant of $80 million from the Government."
Prof. Poon, in appreciation of Sir Gordon Wu's continuous support as the Chairman of the first Board of the Development Foundation following his services in the University Court and Council, said, "We are confident that under the able leadership of Sir Gordon, Foundation members will give their valuable advice which helps further advancement of the University."
The Foundation will channel half of the donations to appropriate investment vehicles while the remaining half of the donations, together with the investment proceeds earned each year, will be dedicated to enhance the quality of teaching and learning through improvement of facilities, enhance applied research in support of business and industries, and foster students' all-round development.
Founding members of the Foundation include members of the University Court and Council and leaders in town like Dr Stanley Ho, the Hon. Vincent Fang Kang as well as leading corporations like The Bank of East Asia, Kerry Holdings Limited and Shangri-la Asia Limited, to name just a few.
The Foundation is governed by a Board of Directors which consists of about 25 members. Members of the Board are appointed by Council Chairman and President of the University. The Foundation will hold annual meeting to report on its operation and financial status to members of the Foundation and the public.
