
[date]2006.10.19[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to five distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Five renowned scholars from the mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (19 October) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme".  The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.   The five distinguished scholars are: Prof. Yu Ruqin, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Professor of the Hunan University; Prof. Chang Shana, Professor and Counsellor in Academic Development of the Academy of Arts and Design, Tsinghua University; Prof. Chen Yazhu, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Professor of the Shanghai Jiaotong University; Prof. Chen Zuyu, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Professor of the China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research and Prof. Gu Guanqun, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Professor of the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Southeast University.   During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, are presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. They will also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics.   Prof. Yu Ruqin graduated from the Department of Chemistry, St Petersburg University, Russia. As an analytical chemist, Prof. Yu Ruqin has a wide interest in research, covering chemometrics and chemo/biosensors. His research team made a systematic study of robust chemetric methodology and introduced the morphological approach and the chaos concept in analytical chemometrics. In the chemo/biosensor field, his research team studied the plasma-polymerized film and nanoparticle techniques in sensor interface design. Dozens of enzymatic, immune and DNA sensors, in particular sensors for the diagnosis of some important diseases such as acute leukaemia have been designed. His research in the field of chemometrics and chemo/biosensors earned him two national natural science awards and an award of the National Science Conference. He was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1991.   Prof. Chang Shana was born in Lyon, France. She returned to China with her parents. Her father, Mr Chang Shuhong, a renowned artist and Dunhuang scholar, took the family to Dunhuang and encouraged her to study Dunhuang mural arts. Five years later, she went to the US for further studies in the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Apart from being an educator, Prof. Chang devoted much effort to the protection of Dunhuang Mogao Grottoes. Since 1950s, Prof. Chang has also played an active role in the design and decoration works of a number of landmark buildings in Beijing, including the Great Hall of People, Cultural Palace for Nationalities, Capital Theatre, Beijing Capital International Airport, Yanjing Hotel and China World Hotel Beijing.   Prof. Chen Yazhu graduated from the Department of Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiaotong University. In 1985, she was promoted to Professor. In 1996, she was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. She is currently Head of the Biomedical Instrument Institute of the College of Life Science &amp; Biotechnology. Earlier on, Prof. Chen engaged in such areas as high voltage technology, especially in the area of high voltage equipments insulation, over-high voltage protection and numerical computation of static electrical field for high voltage. With her significant contributions and achievements, she earned various State prizes for Scientific Technology Progress. Prof. Chen integrated the knowledge of multidisciplinary studies and advanced technology in developing the new medical technology, Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy, and also did a lot of advanced studies about the hydroelectric effects caused by strong pulse discharging in the water. She has successfully developed China's first generation ESWL. This technology has been adopted both locally and internationally and generated great economical and social benefits. In recognition of her achievement, she was granted the First Class Award of the National Science and Technology Progress Prize in 1987.   Prof. Chen Zuyu is a well-known expert of geotechnical engineering in China. Following his graduation from the Department of Hydraulic Engineering of Tsinghua University in 1966, he became an Honorary Research Associate of the Monash University, Australia. In 2005, he was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Prof. Chen's further research was concerned with the extension of an upper-bound method to slope stability analysis. In a paper co-authored by Prof. Chen, published in Canadian Geotechnical Journal in 1996, a vigorous and practical method, which involved an inclined slice failure pattern, was presented. Prof. Chen's recent research work focuses on applications of the above-mentioned method in 2D cases and 3D problems, making it feasible to solve a number of difficult technical problems in China's hydropower projects. In 2004, he published a generalized solution for rock wedge stability analysis, which is a fundamental challenge to the conventional methods given in textbooks.    Prof. Gu Guanqun received his Bachelor's degree in Computing Technology and Equipment from the Nanjing Institute of Technology (now the Southeast University). He was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering in 1997 and he was President of the Southeast University from 1997 to 2006. Prof. Gu has been involved in the research and development of computer architecture and application systems for more than 40 years. In 1965, Prof. Gu began to develop the first transistor numerical integrator and has achieved remarkable success. He presided over the development of the first urban area OSI network in China and the first open EDI System in 1992. In addition, as a Chief Chinese Expert, he presided over the Jiangsu Computer Application Network in the cooperative Euro-China programme and participated in the setup of China Research Network (CRN) and China Education and Research Network (CERNET). In the late 1980s, Prof. Gu devoted himself to the research and application in the field of CIMS.   
