
[date]2005.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to Chun Wo Holdings[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (25 November) named a computer centre after the Chun Wo Holdings Limited in recognition of its generous donation of $1 million in support of the development of PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Land Use.The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Pang Kam-chun, Chairman of Chun Wo Holdings Limited, Mr Clement Kwok, Managing Director of Chun Wo Holdings Limited, Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President (Student Development) and Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Research Development). Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Leung thanked Chun Wo for their longstanding support. He said, 'We are most happy to have Chun Wo's support. This donation not only signified its recognition of PolyU's role in providing high quality programmes of a practical nature for the community, but also provided a strong boost to the advancement and development of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use.' Mr Pang said, 'The University and Chun Wo share the same view on pursuing for excellence. We wish our support can encourage more companies in the industry to give support to the University for nurturing more professional talents for the community.'The newly-named Chun Wo Computer Centre, already in operation, provides students with access to advanced computing facilities and software, serving to enhance the quality of learning and teaching of the University. Chun Wo Holdings Limited was founded in 1968 and listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 1993. The Group focuses on the development of construction business for more than 30 years and becomes a renowned construction company in Hong Kong. The majority of our contracts are secured through the Group's wholly-owned subsidiaries, including building construction, foundations, civil engineering, electrical and mechanical engineering, and maintenance works. Currently, Chun Wo has been diversifying the business into property development, property management and security services, as well as investment in pharmaceutical business. The Group now has portfolio in Mainland China, Macau, Taiwan and Vietnam.    
