
[date]2005.11.20[/date]
[title]Greening Hong Kong by PolyU Alumni[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD) again joined hands to plant over 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Ma On Shan Park yesterday (20 November). More than 800 PolyU alumni, their friends and family members participated in this fun-filled event.This activity was kicked off by Dr Patrick C.P. Ho, Secretary for Home Affairs; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Eddy Yau Kwok-yin, Assistant Director (Leisure Services), Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President; Dr Lam Tai-fai and Mr Johnny Fan, FHKPUAA Vice Presidents. Miss Vivienne Tam, world-famous fashion designer and one of the recipients of the First Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award, also attended the ceremony to show her support to her alma mater.Miss Viann Liang, a famous young artist and PolyU alumnus, sang with a group of young children together with members of the event's organizing committee at the closing ceremony.Speaking at the opening ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'This event not only unites PolyU alumni's efforts toward the betterment of Hong Kong's environment, but also further strengthens the sense of fellowship among graduates of PolyU and its predecessors, i.e. the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School.'Other programmes such as drama and dancing performances by children and game booths were staged by PolyU alumni associations and other supporting organizations. Local and overseas alumni bodies of PolyU have rendered their support to this meaningful event by contributing cash sponsorships. Texment Fashions Limited and Asia Pacific Catering respectively sponsored the windbreakers and refreshments for the participants. The proceeds generated from this event will be used to support the Community Chest of Hong Kong and future PolyU alumni development activities.This is the second time that PolyU organizes this greening activity. The first event launched last November has seized Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the 'Alumni Relations Programmes' category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first institution from Hong Kong who has received such honour.
