
[date]2006.04.13[/date]
[title]Centre for Professional and Business English helps working executives excel in Cambridge Business English Certificate exams[/title]
The Centre for Business and Professional English (CPBE), a leader in business English training and a sub-unit of the School of Professional Education and Executive Development of PolyU, is inviting applications for its preparation courses for the University of Cambridge Business English Certificate (BEC) examinations for new intakes in May and July. Cambridge BEC is an internationally recognized qualification from the University of Cambridge that shows that the holder has learned English to a predetermined standard and can use it in a professional context. 
CPBE is the first Hong Kong approved BEC examination centre and remains the largest. Since 1998, nearly 4,000 students have enrolled in its Cambridge BEC preparation courses. In 2005, the average pass rates of its students rose up to 72% for BEC Preliminary and 81% for BEC Vantage. 
Cambridge BEC is an English language benchmark test recognized by the HKSAR Government and the preparation courses offered by CPBE are approved Continuing Education Fund courses. 
Cambridge BEC is a good choice for employers and employees as it tests business-specific communication ability, which is different from general English exams. The advantage for BEC certificate holders is that their qualification has the Cambridge guarantee of quality and reliability in all four skills of writing, speaking, listening and reading. 
Ms Alison Ridley, Assistant Programme Director of CPBE, said, 'With over 15 years of experience in professional English training, CPBE is known for its quality English courses which fit the needs of working adults. We will continue to help learners enhance their standard of workplace English so as to help them further their careers and enhance the overall competitiveness of the Hong Kong workforce.'      
There are three levels of BEC: Preliminary, Vantage and Higher. BEC Preliminary is for people at an elementary or low-intermediate level of proficiency. It addresses the communication needs of employees in routine business situations. The Centre's preparation course is organized around business topics such as customer service, product description, company performance and employment opportunities. 
BEC Vantage is for people at an intermediate or upper-intermediate level of proficiency. It addresses the communication needs of employees in more demanding business situations. The preparation course is organized around business topics such as public relations, reporting results, corporate hospitality and business documentation. 
BEC Higher is for people at an advanced level of proficiency. It addresses the communication needs of middle and senior management and senior support staff in complex business situations. The preparation course is organized around business topics such as corporate culture, e-business, staff motivation and business ethics. 
Classes for each level are three hours per week for 20 weeks, with compulsory out of class assignments. The courses not only prepare students for the examinations but aim at achieving a significant gain in all round proficiency. 
The BEC examination was first developed in 1993 for China and the Asia Pacific region, and has now expanded its use worldwide. The Examining Body, University of Cambridge ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages,) is the largest testing agency for British English and offers a full range of examinations worldwide including IELTS and BULATS. Over the years, hundreds of thousands of candidates have sat Cambridge BEC examinations in different countries. 
CPBE was established in 1990, with the aim of designing and delivering quality English language training programmes for adults of all levels in the Hong Kong workplace.  The Centre also offers specific programmes for English teachers, engineers, accountants and lawyers. Its services include: tailor-made English courses for corporations, one-to-one executive training, language benchmarking and corporate style guides. 
