
[date]2006.10.06[/date]
[title]PolyU to host International Symposium on Functional Foods[/title]
About 400 participants from six countries and territories will gather at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to attend the second International Symposium on Functional Foods, with the theme Nutrigenomics.
The two-day event will be kicked off on 12 October with an opening ceremony officiated at by PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Prof. Suleyman Demokan;  and Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. It will provide a forum for academics, researchers and industry professionals to keep abreast of the latest developments in functional foods, and especially on the exciting new field of nutrigenomics.
According to Prof. Georges M. Halpern, Distinguished Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, nutrigenomics is the application of sciences of genomics to human nutrition, especially the relationship between nutrition and health. He added that functional foods are becoming more and more important in Asia against the backdrop of an ageing population.
At the invitation of PolyU, many internationally renowned experts will deliver speeches on different aspects of functional foods and related research and development. (Please refer to the attached programme rundown for more details.)
Three PolyU researchers, namely Prof. William Chan Tak-hang; Prof. Samuel Lo Chun-lap and Prof. Halpern of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, will also present their latest research findings during the Symposium.
Prof. Chan will present a paper on "The Story of Green Tea: Chemical and Biological Studies of Green Tea Polyphenols as Anti-caner Agents". He will talk about the prospect of using green tea polyphenols as anti-cancer agents through controlling the purity of green tea extract; isolating and purifying the active ingredient; and improving the absorption of this ingredient by the human body.
On the other hand, Prof. Samuel Lo will present his latest findings on the influence of fatty acids on inflammation in adjuvant-induced-arthritis. In his animal studies conducted with a rat model, he found that an omega-3 fatty acid-rich extract can control pain at the initial phase of the development of arthritis and even cure the disease within one year.
It is anticipated that Prof. Lo's pioneering study will pave the way for further research on the use of natural anti-inflammatory substances, with specific influence on genes associated with chronic inflammatory disease and ageing.
During the second day of the Symposium, Prof. Halpern will speak on the topic of "9,000 years of Nutrigenomics ' and still thriving: Wine is Medicine". He will analyze the composition of different wines and the anti-oxidant properties of wine ingredients, as well as various health indicators associated with non-alcoholic wine drinking.
This Symposium is sponsored by the Croucher Foundation. It is also supported by the Hong Kong Science and Technology Park; Hong Kong Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine Ltd; Hong Kong Health Food Association; Hong Kong Nutrition Association Ltd; Hong Kong Dietitians Association Ltd; Modernized Chinese Medicine International Association; and Hong Kong Food Science and Technology Association Ltd.
