
[date]2006.01.23[/date]
[title]Press Statement[/title]
In view of the allegations made by Next Magazine last April against The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang Hing-chung, an independent enquiry panel was then set up by the University Council at the suggestion of the President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong to look into the allegations. The enquiry panel was chaired by Mr Victor Cha Mou-zing, Member of Council and Chairman of Council's Audit Committee. Its members include Prof. John Leong Chi-yan, President of The Open University of Hong Kong; Mr Herbert Tsoi Hak-kong, a solicitor and Member of Council; and Mr William Wu, Head of the University's Internal Audit Unit, who served as secretary to the panel.The enquiry panel has completed the investigation and submitted the report to the Council. The panel has made the following conclusions: Allegation 1: There exists a possible (undeclared) conflict of interests over Mr Tzang's dealings or involvement in I-LeapHK (or companies associated with I-LeapHK), which was awarded a contract to run the Leadership and Competence for Success Programme (LCSP) for the PolyU's students. The Panel's conclusions: 1. Although Mr Tzang has obtained approval from the President for the directorships in both I-LeapHK and I-LeapInt'l, such approval was made retrospectively and was contrary to the provisions in the Regulation Governing Conflict of Interest, Outside Activities and Consultancy Work. 2. Although Mr Tzang has made declaration to the PolyU for his directorship in I-LeapHK, he was concurrently a user and the supplier's director and the Chairman of the Tender Committee. Mr Tzang should have refrained from participating in the whole tendering process for awarding the LCSP contract to I-LeapHK to avoid any conflict of interest.3. Although Mr Tzang does not directly hold shares of I-LeapInt'l, there may be a public perception that there is an issue of conflict of interest because of: (i) The company structure of I-LeapInt'l and related companies with which Mr Tzang is connected as a shareholder or director; (ii) Several shareholders of these companies have a proximity relationship with Mr Tzang, as his relatives or close associates.4. Mr Tzang's action of writing to the Tender Committee Chairman on 11 April 2005 could well have been interpreted as an attempt to influence the tender process. However, the Panel accepts his explanation that his act was just an overzealous action in trying to support a proposal aimed at increasing the enrolment numbers of the LCSP.Allegation 2: Mr Tzang was receiving an advantage of using a car provided by BDG Communications Management Ltd. (BDG), one of the shareholders of I-LeapInt'l, and I-LeapInt'l was also a shareholder of I-LeapHK. The Panel's conclusions: The Panel considers that Mr Tzang has not received an advantage of using the car provided by BDG based on the following observations:1. Mr Tzang has been using a car provided by BDG before and since he joined Hong Kong Polytechnic (then the PolyU) in 1994. It was a commercial settlement in 1998, long before the incorporation of I-LeapHK, that Mr Tzang would continue to use the car after he ceased to be a shareholder of BDG. 2. The use of the car was confirmed by BDG management in a letter of authorisation. Although the letter was prepared upon the request of the Panel for documentary evidence to support the use of the car, the information and reasons provided in the letter are considered acceptable explanations. 3. There is a considerable time interval between replacement of a new car by BDG for Mr Tzang in 1999 and BDG making the indirect investment in I-LeapInt'l in February 2002. This considerable interval indicates against Mr Tzang having accepted an advantage from a supplier.Allegation 3: Use of CarparkThe Panel's conclusion: The Panel considers that Mr Tzang's use of the car park has been in compliance with the procedures of the PolyU.Allegation 4: Involvement in the PolyU Modern TCM Research Institute Ltd (PTCMR) The Panel's conclusions: The Panel considers that there is nothing irregular in relation to Mr Tzang's involvement in PTCMR based on the following observations:1. Mr Tzang's involvement in the setting up of PTCMR, his appointment as the Managing Director and his receipt of honorarium has been brought to the attention of the PolyU Council.2. It is reasonable to remunerate Mr Tzang as the managing Director to avoid the PolyU subsidizing his services at PTCMR.3. Proper declaration to the PolyU has been made by Mr Tzang and approval has been obtained from the President.The University Council examined and deliberated the report at a meeting held yesterday (23 January), and accepted the enquiry panel's conclusions. The Council also agreed that a letter of caution be issued to Mr Tzang by the University Management. The Council also expressed gratitude to the enquiry panel for their strenuous efforts. 
