
[date]2006.02.07[/date]
[title]CUHK and PolyU experts recreate drawings of St John's Cathedral[/title]
To address the lack of detailed architectural drawings to aid the planning of preservation works for St John's Cathedral, a declared historical monument in Hong Kong, Prof. Ho Puay-peng from the Department of Architecture of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) and Dr Bruce King from the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have joined forces in a pioneering project to recreate the architectural drawings of the Cathedral.
The story of this joint project, along with its results, will be on display for free public viewing in an exhibition entitled "Dots to drawings" at Li Hall, St John's Cathedral, Garden Road, Central, on 10 to 15 February from 9:30am to 5.30pm. The event will be formally opened in the afternoon of 10 February by Dr Louis Ng, Executive Secretary, Antiquities and Monuments Office of the Government's Leisure and Cultural Services Department.
Through the application of both conventional and advanced surveying techniques, the surveyors measured, laser scanned and photographed the Cathedral and Li Hall creating data accurate to the millimetre level that the built heritage specialists turned into a complete set of drawings. The whole project took nearly two years to complete and was funded by the Cathedral and through research grants from PolyU and CUHK. In addition, the project offered a unique opportunity for surveying students to gain meaningful experience with the new technology of laser scanning.
The foundation stone for St John's Cathedral, Central, was laid in 1847 and survived through the years including the Japanese occupation during World War II. The Cathedral is the oldest Western church in Hong Kong and is recognized as one of the finest in the region. Its cultural significance was recognized by becoming a declared monument by Hong Kong's Antiquities Authority in 1996. Unfortunately, no architectural drawings were available, making any maintenance, refurbishment or restoration projects difficult.
The creation of architectural drawings of modern buildings is comparatively straight forward due to their mostly geometric and uniform shape. For older colonial and oriental buildings, the intricate details found in their design means that accurate measurement is an extremely difficult and time consuming task. Obtaining the necessary detailed and accurate measurements is the realm of the land surveyor and the skills and knowledge necessary to turn them into meaningful architectural drawings belongs to built heritage specialists.
This project marks the first time that the two teams of experts from CUHK and PolyU have worked together. Previously, the necessary dimensions for architectural drawings were collected manually using tapes and other simple measurement tools with access to difficult-to-reach areas assisted by ladders and scaffolding. Objects containing intricate details were obtained by sketching and photography. Such an approach to a building rich in architectural details and of large and varied shape would have been a daunting task, not to mention the impact effecting scaffolding inside the Cathedral would have had on the day-to-day running of the church.
Laser scanning is a relatively new technology that solves many of these problems and, when combined with photogrammetry, presents new opportunities to those people and organizations interested in the recording and preservation of historic buildings that have significant cultural and heritage value.
Invitation
Members of the media are welcome to view the exhibition and cover its opening ceremony. Details of the opening ceremony as follows:Date: 10 February 2006Time: 4:30 pmVenue: Li Hall, St John's Cathedral, Garden Road, Central
Programme:
4:30pm Opening address by Dr Louis Ng, Executive Secretary, Antiquities and Monuments Office, Leisure and Cultural Services Department, Government of the HKSAR
4:45pm Presentation by Prof. Ho Puay-peng, CUHK: "Heritage in Hong Kong"
5:00pm Presentation by Dr Bruce King, PolyU: "Surveying technology for heritage recording"
5:15pm Presentation by Prof. Ho: "Dots to drawings"
5:30pm End of Opening
