
[date]2006.04.24[/date]
[title]PolyU grooms future entrepreneurs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) awarded 10 winning teams of the PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest 2005/06 during yesterday's (24 April) awards presentation ceremony on campus. This competition, running for the fifth year, provides a platform for full-time PolyU students to formulate their creative ideas in developing sound business ventures. 
PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr. Lui Sun-wing said, 'This contest has been held for five consecutive years with an aim to foster entrepreneurship spirit among the younger generation and prepare youngsters for the ever-changing and highly competitive real business world.  We want to express our heartfelt thanks to IDT International Limited for its generous sponsorship of this competition in the past five years.'
This year, 44 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of 132 students competed in three categories, namely, Health Care &amp; Personal Devices, Telecommunications &amp; Home Appliances and Toys.  17 qualifying teams were chosen to enter Round II with three teams competing in the Final Round, in which they presented their business proposals in details to the panel of judges, comprising of Mr. David Mak, President of IDT Electronic Products Ltd., Mr. Andy Ma, General Manager of Oregon Scientific Global Distribution Ltd. and Dr. Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), PolyU. 
The contestants were required to formulate their business plans under the guidance of an academic advisor.  Training workshops of relevant topics such as 'Marketing Research and Planning', 'Business Plan Writing Skills', 'Financial Planning for Business Plan' and 'Presentation Skills' were provided to the contesting students free of charge.  
Diamond, Platinum and Gold prizes were awarded basing on the following five judging criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technology novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/ development plan and presentation skills.  Diamond, Platinum and Gold awards winning teams received a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000 respectively while the category first and second runners-up received the Excellence Awards of $5,000 and Merit Awards of $3,000 respectively.
The winning entries are listed as follows:
Health Care &amp; Personal DevicesDiamond Award of Innovation &amp; Category Winner: Dr. StimulusStudents: Fan Man Chun, Li Ho Wa, Lau Sze Man, Chan Shing San Advisor: Dr. Raymond Kai-yu Tong, Assistant Professor, Department of Health Technology and Informatics
Excellence Award: PowerSuitStudents: Ching Ka Yan, Fung Yi Ning, Ma Hoi Man, Chan Wai ChiAdvisor: Prof. Jin-tu Fan, Professor, Institute of Textiles &amp; Clothing
Merit Award: TeleporterStudents: Chan On Yi, Chan Yuen Chung, Mak Wing YanAdvisor: Dr. Kin-tak Lau, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Telecommunications &amp; Home AppliancesPlatinum Award of Innovation &amp; Category Winner: M.PAD mobile phone generatorStudents: Lui Shui Kei, Lau Hiu Pong, Tse Yin Man, Lam Chi ChunAdvisor: Dr. K.H. Lau, Lecturer, Department of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering
Excellence Award: Automated Parking Space Reservation System (APSRS)Students: Song Peikang, Ji Chao, Ai Wen YuAdvisor: Dr. Tao-chiu Lam, Assistant Professor, Department of Management &amp; Marketing
Merit Award: INFO-ToothStudents: Wong Ho Yin, Yung HerbertAdvisor: Dr. Theresa L.M. Lau Ng, Associate Professor, Department of Management &amp; Marketing
Merit Award: Electric Soup-Dispensing BoilerStudents: Wong Yuen Ling, Fok Chi Kiu, Leung Daniel Kwai Yan Advisor: Dr. K.H. Lau, Lecturer, Department of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering
ToysGold Award of Innovation &amp; Category Winner: New Toy Development ' Tarot The TowerStudents: Jack Wu Chun Ho, Kathleen Lo Kit Ying, Chong Ma Ka Chong, Crystal Wong Miu Advisor: Dr. C.K. Kwong, Associate Professor, Department of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering
Excellence Award: U-Guide ' A Chest to KnowledgeStudents: April Cheng Ka Po, Jack Fong Ho Ching, Angela Cheng Sau Ling Advisor:  Dr. Tao-chiu Lam, Assistant Professor, Department of Management &amp; Marketing
Merit Award: Fly &amp; Explore The WorldStudents: Poon Kin Chung, Chan Kwong Wai Advisor: Ir. Albert C.K. Choi, Assistant Professor, Department of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering
