
[date]2005.11.14[/date]
[title]Greening Hong Kong by PolyU Alumni[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD) will again join hands to plant over 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Ma On Shan Park on 20 November. It is expected that more than 800 PolyU alumni, their friends and family members will participate in this fun-filled event.
This activity will be kicked off by Dr Patrick C.P. Ho, Secretary for Home Affairs; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Eddy Yau Kwok Yin, Assistant Director (Leisure Services), Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President; Dr Lam Tai-fai and Mr Johnny Fan, FHKPUAA Vice Presidents. Miss Vivienne Tam, world-famous fashion designer and one of the recipients of the First Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award, will also attend the ceremony to show her support to her alma mater.
Miss Viann Liang, a famous young artist and PolyU alumnus, will sing with a group of young children together with members of the event's organizing committee at the closing ceremony.
This event will not only unite PolyU alumni's efforts toward the betterment of Hong Kong's environment, but also further strengthen the sense of fellowship among graduates of PolyU and its predecessors, i.e. the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School.
Other programmes such as drama and dancing performances by children and game booths will be staged by PolyU alumni associations and other supporting organizations.
Local and overseas alumni bodies of PolyU are rendering their support to this meaningful event by contributing cash sponsorships. Texment Fashions Limited and Asia Pacific Catering are respectively sponsoring the windbreakers and refreshments for the participants. The proceeds generated from this event will be used to support the Community Chest of Hong Kong and future PolyU alumni development activities.
This is the second time that PolyU organizes this greening activity. The first event launched last November has seized Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the 'Alumni Relations Programmes' category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first institution from Hong Kong who has received such honour.
   
Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the opening ceremony of the event. Details are as follows:
Date: 20 November 2005 (Sunday)
Time: 11.00 a.m.
Venue: Ma On Shan Park, Ma On Shan, N.T. (A map showing the Press Reception Counter is enclosed)
