
[date]2006.09.28[/date]
[title]PolyU names lecture theatre after Mrs Samantha Wan[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (28 September) named a lecture theatre on campus after Mrs Samantha Wan, wife of PolyU alumnus and successful businessman Mr Glory Wan, in recognition of the couple's support and contribution to the University. Officiating at the ceremony were the Wan couple and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong.  Mr Wan was a fashion and clothing graduate of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in the 1980's, and completed his Master of Business Administration study in PolyU in recent years. He is Founder of the Texment Fashions Ltd, and is currently the company's Executive Director and General Manager. Over the years, Mr Wan has strongly supported his Alma Mater's many activities and made generous donations in support of the University's Development Fund and Student Development Fund, with a total amount of over $3 million. 
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, "We are honoured to have received important donations from our alumnus, signifying his great support and recognition of our University's education philosophy. It is encouraging to note that our alumni have a strong sense of belonging towards their Alma Mater, and the naming of the lecture theatre will remind our staff and students of this spirit. We also hope that students will follow the fine example of Glory who cares to repay the society and supports the development of education.
"Let me assure you all that PolyU will continue to groom outstanding graduates and offer quality programmes and professional services, for the well-being of our society and our motherland." 
Mr Wan is also Vice Chairman of PolyU's Student Competitiveness Development Committee. Capitalising on his wealth of experience and extensive network in the business sector, Mr Wan will help the University develop more collaborations with the industry and provide more learning opportunities to students. It will help broaden the horizons of students and sharpen their competitive edge.  
Mr Wan has supported the University in different ways, including sharing his success story in the University's publication Ming Tao II, which aims to show youngsters the keys to success. He also sponsored the University's design alumnus Miss Gigi Leung's  homecoming fundraising concert, and various large-scale university-wide activities such as the Walk for Millions and Greening Hong Kong.  
Mr Wan established the Texment Fashions Ltd. in 1987 and the company has recorded positive growth over the years. Apart from fashion manufacturing and retailing, his business now also covers food chain stores, furniture and fabrics production, with offices set up in six countries. To further develop in the fashion industry, the company has in recent years established Si, a local brandname for high-end ladies' fashion and organized fashion design competition for the University's textiles students, encouraging young talents to demonstrate their creativity.        
Located in core building PQ304, the Samantha Wan Lecture Theatre has a seating capacity for about 120 persons and offers excellent audiovisual equipment. The lecture theatre is widely used for general teaching purpose, seminars and academic workshops.
