
[date]2005.10.26[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (26 October) publicly honoured six Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences/Engineering at a special ceremony commemorating the launch of the University's 'Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme 2005'. The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.The distinguished scholars are: Prof. Wang Sijing, Member of Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) and Professor of Institute of Geology and Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS); Prof. Li Deren, Member of CAS, Member of CAE and Director of State Key Laboratory of Information Engineering in Surveying, Mapping and Remote Sensing, Wuhan University; Prof. Ji Guobiao, Member of CAE and Scientific Expert in the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council; Prof. Guo Guangcan, Member of CAS and Professor of University of Science and Technology of China; Prof. Liu Renhuai, Member of CAE and President of Jinan University; Prof. Xue Yusheng, Member of CAE and Chief Engineer of the Nanjing Automation Research Institute, China. Since the inception of the 'Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme' in 1994, PolyU has invited over sixty prominent Chinese scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, to take part in this large-scale exchange activity. The Scheme has fostered partnership between PolyU and the distinguished scholars and enhanced institutional collaboration and exchange. During their stay in Hong Kong, the scholars will present a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. They will also share their ideas and give advice to the departments concerned on various topics. The background and accomplishments of the visiting scholars are briefly described as follows:Prof. Wang Sijing is a world-renowned specialist in environmental geology, engineering geology and rock mechanics. He has been awarded with the Outstanding Achievement Award by the Southeast Asian Association of Geology and the Scholarship Medal of Lyon May. He has been appointed as a member of the consultative committee on state projects such as Three Gorges Project on Yangtze River, Ertan Hydropower Station on Yalong River and Xiaolangdi Hydropower Project on Yellow River. Currently, he is Director of the Division of Energy and Mining, CAE, Chief Editor of Chinese Journal of Engineering Geology and Scientia Geologica Sinica.Prof. Li Deren is a distinguished specialist in photogrammetry and remote sensing. His achievements have won him the Prize of Progress in Science and Technology by the Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation and over ten State and Provincial Awards. He was elected as Member of the Euro-Asian Academy of Sciences in 1995. Currently, he is President of the Asian Association of Geographic Information System, Vice President of the Chinese Society of Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography, Vice President of the Chinese Society of Image and Graphics.Prof. Ji Guobiao is an eminent expert and pioneer in chemical fibre engineering and technology. His significant contributions in advancing the development of chemical fibre technology have brought him the Guanghua Award of Engineering and Technology. He is currently the Scientific Expert in the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, President of the Modern Textile Institute of the Dong Hua University, Professor of the Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology and the Zhejiang University of Technology.Prof. Guo Guangcan is a specialist in the field of quantum optics and quantum information. His research achievements on quantum optics, quantum codes, quantum communication and quantum computation have won him Second Prize of State Science Award and the Award of Progress in Science and Technology by the Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation. He is currently Director of the State Key Laboratory of Quantum Information of the CAS, Chief Scientist of the 973 Projects in Ministry of Science and Technology, Chief Scientist of the New-Oriented Projects, CAS. Prof. Liu Renhuai is a prominent specialist and one of the pioneers in plate and shell structural theory. His research achievements and outstanding contributions to the field of education have been well recognized by many important awards, such as Second Prize in Science and Technology Achievement and Third Prize in Science and Technology Achievement by the CAS, Second Prize in Science and Technology Development by the Ministry of Education and Top Prize in Teaching Achievement of Guangdong Province. Currently, he is also Member of the Standing Committee of the Division of Engineering Management, CAS, Chairman of the Department of Management of the Committee of Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, Vice Chairman of the Guangdong Provincial Association of Science and Technology. Prof. Xue Yusheng is a renowned specialist and pioneer in the field of power system stability analysis and control. His quantitative method for general motion stability of any non-conservative and non-autonomous systems has been successfully commercialized in both domestic and global markets. His outstanding achievements have won him many State Awards, including First and Second Prizes of Scientific and Technological Progress Award and Second Prize of the State Technological Invention Award. He is now Chief Editor of the Journal Automation of Electric Power Systems, Committee Member of the Chinese Society of Electrical Engineering and Member of the 10th National People's Congress.
