
[date]2005.11.04[/date]
[title]PolyU-affiliated SPEED and HKCC send forth 1,386 graduates[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) and the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), operated under The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE), yesterday (4 November) celebrated their third joint Graduation Ceremony and sent forth their latest batch of 1,386 graduates. Among them, 1,180 were graduates from HKCC's nine Associate Degree programmes, namely, Associate in Business, Bilingual Communication, Design, Engineering, Applied Social Sciences, Information Technology, Health Studies, Arts and Science. The largest cohort of 666 graduates came from the Associate in Business, including 18 mainland students who completed their study in the Zhuhai campus. For SPEED, it sent forth 206 graduates, including the first batch of 131 graduates from its top-up Bachelor's degree programmes in Marketing and Public Relations, and Travel Industry Management, which were launched in 2003. To provide Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates with more further study opportunities, SPEED has also introduced two new top-up degree programmes in Business and Applied Sociology in this academic year. SPEED's another 75 graduates were presented with various awards, including Diploma in Human Resource Management, Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) Diploma in the areas of Information Technologies for E-Commerce, Human Resource Management, Industrial Management (Print Media), Service Management (General), as well as PCE awards under Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM). Speaking at the Ceremony, Dean of CPCE Prof. Thomas Wong congratulated all graduates for successfully obtaining the academic awards and reiterated, 'SPEED and HKCC share the University's same commitment to providing quality programmes that cater for learners' varied needs and interests, thus enhancing the overall competitiveness of our society in the long run. SPEED's wide range of programmes have attracted thousands of enrolled students, reflecting its leading position as a provider of continuing education. 'I am also pleased to note that, according to HKCC's latest graduate survey conducted this September, over 70 per cent of its graduates are continuing their degree studies, and the number of graduates studying government-funded programmes offered by local universities has increased more than four-fold to 270 this year. The survey results show that our graduates enjoy good prospects, indicating the College's efforts in producing quality graduates are strongly recognized.' This year, 769 out of 1,074 graduate respondents are continuing their degree studies in either full-time or part-time mode, which more than double last year's figure (333). For graduates who engage in full-time employment, 95 per cent found their first job within three months upon graduation. Over 70 per cent of respondents enjoy an average monthly salary within the range of $6,000 to $9,000 and about 10 per cent earned more than $10,000 per month. Established in 2001/02, HKCC offers quality full-time Associate Degree programmes in support of the Government's policy in providing senior school leavers with post-secondary education opportunities. Currently about 3,700 students are studying at HKCC for its 13 Associate Degree programmes covering a wide range of areas including Business, Bilingual Communication, Design, Engineering, Applied Social Sciences, Information Technology, Health Studies, Arts, Science, China Business, Statistics and Computing for Business, English for Business Communication, and Beauty and Health Therapy. To further provide an ideal learning environment for HKCC students, two new campuses in Hung Hom Bay and West Kowloon are now under construction, expected to be completed in 2007. Founded in 1999, SPEED is a full-fledged continuing education institution offering full-time and part-time programmes leading to PolyU SPEED and overseas academic awards, in partnership with various PolyU departments and renowned overseas universities. It also offers credit-bearing courses under its flexible lifelong learning framework of CAM. In addition, through its Centre for Professional and Business English (CPBE), SPEED offers English language courses tailor-made for professionals working in the business and education sectors. At present, SPEED offers 26 academic award-bearing programmes ranging from sub-degree to doctoral level with over 2,100 enrolled students. Since the year 2000, over 8,000 learners have registered under CAM, while CPBE's English courses have attracted over 6,000 learners in 2004/05. 
