
[date]2006.02.14[/date]
[title]PolyU-affiliated HKCC to offer 22 AD programmes by strong staff team[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a leader in Associate Degree education, yesterday (14 February) introduced details about its forthcoming development plans, including launch of new Associate Degree programmes in the academic year 2006/07, bringing the total number of programmes to 22, to be taught by its strong team of academic staff.Among HKCC's 91 teaching staff members, 97% has Masters/postgraduate qualification, of which over 20% has doctoral qualification. In addition, 24% of the teaching staff is currently pursuing doctoral degree studies, demonstrating the strong support of its quality staff team to further the College's long term development.To promote the learning of the English language, HKCC has a team of 19 full-time English teachers dedicated to organizing various teaching and learning and extra-curricular activities. With their concerted efforts, HKCC's English activity proposal, entitled ‘English Survivor Competition', has recently been selected by the Standing Committee on Language Education and Research of the Education and Manpower Bureau for its English Festival 2006. Over a hundred secondary schools have showed interest in taking part in the Competition, which aims to promote the use of English among secondary school students. The Competition will take place on the University campus from March to June 2006.According to HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung, 'Established in 2001/02, HKCC has achieved encouraging growth over the past five years with the support of the community at large. To further fulfil our mission in inspiring students' potentials through holistic education, HKCC will continue to keep up our efforts to become a quality college, which places great emphasis on achieving the highest quality in our five core elements: programmes, staff, learning and teaching environment, student development and graduates.'For the forthcoming academic year 2006/07, HKCC will offer a total of 22 AD programmes, including the new Associate in Social Policy and Administration and eight new specialized programmes under its Associate in Business Scheme. HKCC's Associate in Business has been one of the most popular AD programmes among students since its launch. The number of enrolled students has increased eight-fold from 240 in 2001 to about 2,000 currently. To meet the increasing demand for business talents for the local and the mainland markets, HKCC will introduce more programmes covering various business streams.Under the new Associate in Business Scheme, there will be 10 programmes for students to select. Apart from the existing programmes of Associate in Business and Associate in Business (China Business), eight new programmes will be introduced. They are: Accounting and Finance, Business Management, Hospitality Management, Information Systems and Knowledge Management, Human Resources Management, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Marketing, and Tourism and Recreation Management. Among them, the Associate in Business (Information Systems and Knowledge Management) is the first of its kind among the AD programmes introduced in Hong Kong.To provide a quality learning environment for students, HKCC is constructing two dedicated campuses in Hung Hom Bay and West Kowloon, scheduled to open respectively in 2007 and 2008. The new campus in Hung Hom Bay, with a gross floor area of 26,000 square meters, will offer primarily non-business AD programmes, while the one in West Kowloon, with a gross floor area of 31,000 square metres, will be devoted to AD programmes related to business studies.Both campuses will provide comprehensive teaching and learning facilities for students, including lecture theatres and classrooms, library, computer centre, cafeteria/canteen, multi-purpose hall, laboratories, etc. There will also be supporting facilities for the HKCC Students' Union for its organization of activities and provision of services to students.HKCC provides students with ample personal development and learning activities. These include complementary study programmes, leadership training, mentorship, young entrepreneur scheme, cultural talks, English and Putonghua enhancement programmes, community services, career development workshops, summer internship and overseas exchanges. More than 200 co-curricular events will be held in 2005/06, providing over 7,000 places for students' participation.
