
[date]2005.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU launches community service programme to serve the needy[/title]
With the aim of encouraging students to develop their social commitment and responsibility through serving the community with their professional knowledge, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is holding its large-scale campus-wide Community Service Learning Programme 2005/06.The inauguration ceremony of the event was held yesterday (3 November), during which awards were presented to exemplary community service projects organized in the past year to recognize the outstanding performance of PolyU students and staff. Out of 39 nominations, eight groups of students who initiated community projects to serve the needy in Hong Kong and the mainland were honoured in the ceremony.Among the winning entries, one team of students from the School of Nursing practised their community nursing knowledge by visiting a leprosy village in Dongguan. Apart from providing wound care and dressing, students worked to empower the vulnerable groups and enhance their self-care ability. Another group of students from the Department of Electronic and Information Engineering reaped the award by developing assistive devices to help students with special needs to operate computers easily for learning.The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Lee Jark-pui, Chairman, Agency for Volunteer Service, and Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President (Student Development). Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Leung said, 'We are pleased that our students have taken an active role in providing volunteer services to serve those people in need in the community. Their spirit and sense of social responsibility should be positively acknowledged.'The programme was organized with the combined efforts of Student Affairs Office, over 20 academic departments and the Students' Union. It is expected that a total of over 2,000 PolyU students and staff will be involved in conducting various community service projects in collaboration with over 50 outside organizations in serving the community throughout the year 2005/06.At the same time, the Showcase on Community Service Learning Projects will be held from 3 to 5 November on campus. The Showcase will display the many meaningful projects launched in the past year, and feature the collaboration between the University and various non-government organizations (NGOs) to be launched in 2005/06. Over 600 elderly and disabled people from various NGOs will join the showcase, which include activities like free health screening services, stall games, exhibition and performances.
