
[date]2005.12.14[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) paid tribute to staff members for their outstanding performance in the presentation ceremony for the "President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement 2004/05" held on campus yesterday (14 December).
During the ceremony, apart from the "President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement", the "Faculty Awards for Outstanding Performance/ Achievement" and "Outstanding Performance/ Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff" were also presented. The award winners, including academic, administrative and general grade staff, were honoured under four categories: Teaching, Research and Scholarly Activities, Services, and Overall Contribution. The awards were presented by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang and the Faculty Deans.
Since its introduction in 1996, the award scheme has become an important channel for the University to show appreciation to staff members and motivate them to excel in their work performance. This is the third year that the Award Scheme was re-structured to a two-tier system to give recognition to a wider representation of staff members. A total of 66 staff members were honoured, including those who received the individual and team awards.
Under the system, all nominations were first submitted to the selection panels of the Faculty Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The best among the awardees were then shortlisted and recommended for the President's Awards. As a result, among the 15 individuals and six teams selected in the first tier, five individuals and two teams were chosen as the final winners for the President's Awards. They are:
Individual Awards
Teaching:
Dr Robert P. Wright, Assistant Professor, Department of Management and Marketing
Prof. Yip Kam-shing, Professor, Department of Applied Social Science
Research and Scholarly Activities:
Prof. Zhilin Li, Professor, Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics
Overall Contribution:
Mrs Sally Yu Poon Wai-ping, Manager, Management and Executive Development Centre
Ms Mandy Hui, Development Officer, PolyU Outpost Centre
Team Awards
Research and Scholarly Activities:
Dr Thomas Y.C. Leung, Associate Professor and Dr Lo Wai-hung Thomas, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology
Overall Contribution:
Ms Cora Sit, Acting Head, Ms Ada Leung, Senior Development Manager, and Miss Ng Yuk-fung, Development Manager, Alumni Affairs and Development Office
Dr Wright joined the University in 2002. He is extremely interested in teaching innovation and is enthusiastic in promoting this culture within his department. He is also determined to equip students for the real world by securing placements for them and his individual-centred approach has made him outstanding among faculty members.
Prof. Yip first served the University from 1987 to 1992 and then re-joined in 1995. The elective subject entitled "Social Work in Mental Health", which he has taught for over ten years, is one of the most popular subject being offered in the department. He has also strived relentlessly to relate theory and practice throughout his teaching career.
Prof. Li joined the University in 1996. An internationally-renowned scholar, Prof. Li's research achievements has won him many prestigious awards and accolades. Most recently in March, he was presented with a State Natural Science Award by the Central Government of China for his significant contribution to "Dynamic and multi-dimensional modeling digital ground surface". He was the only academic from Hong Kong to receive this award.
Mrs Yu joined the University in 1996. She has been proactive in fostering close collaboration with many PolyU departments to provide customized training and consultancy services to both the private and public sectors. In those partnerships, Mrs Yu has demonstrated her coordination skills by successfully mobilizing a large number of staff from various departments.
Ms Hui joined the University in 1998 and was transferred to PolyU Outpost Centre upon the unit's establishment in 1999. She has successfully completed many major assignments including the ground work in establishing the PolyU's Shenzhen Outpost and the launch of PolyU's first executive and postgraduate management programme in South China, which have paved the way for other academic departments to offer programmes in the region.
Dr Leung and Dr Lo have worked closely together as a team in recent years, attaining outstanding achievements in interdisciplinary research. Their novel treatment for liver cancer has won a Gold Medal and a Special Gold Award in the 33rd International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products of Geneva. The new drug, which offers a ray of hope for liver cancer patients, is the first drug developed in Hong Kong that has been able to come to the stage of clinical trial.
Ms Sit, Ms Leung and Miss Ng, with the support of a relatively small number of staff, have taken up the two important roles of alumni development and fund-raising for the whole University since the establishment of Alumni Affairs and Development Office in 2001. Their tremendous efforts in this two major areas have fostered a widespread "caring and giving" culture amongst our donors, sponsors, alumni, staff, students and all members of PolyU community.
