
[date]2006.02.02[/date]
[title]PolyU SPEED invites applications for its wide range of programmes[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is now inviting applications for its wide array of quality programmes and courses which will soon commence classes.In the current academic year, the School will offer a total of 25 award-bearing programmes leading to awards of PolyU-SPEED and renowned overseas universities. To meet the different needs of learners, SPEED offers various levels of programmes which range from pre-Associate Degree, Bachelor's degree, Executive diploma, Master's to doctoral level. Among them, programmes leading to PolyU-SPEED awards include the top-up Bachelor's degree programmes in Applied and Media Arts, Applied Sociology, Housing Management, Marketing and Public Relations, Travel Industry Management, Business with specialisms in Finance and International Business, and the Executive Diploma in human resource management. Furthermore, in collaboration with Heriot-Watt University and Northumbria University, SPEED offers about 10 Bachelor's degree programmes in areas of business and finance, computing and human resource management. SPEED also collaborates with the University of Birmingham, University of Leicester and University of Western Sydney in the provision of several postgraduate programmes, including special programmes such as Master of Public Health, MSc in Educational Leadership and Doctor of Education. In addition, SPEED will offer over 100 short courses covering a diverse range of areas, including accounting and finance, environmental/occupational safety and health, China business, logistics and supply chain management, management studies, marketing, design, language and translation. The courses are designed to meet learners' varied needs and enhance their professional development. Many of them are listed as 'reimbursable courses' under the Continuing Education Fund.To allow more flexibility for learners, SPEED has introduced a unique Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) since 2000 to enable learners to study at their own pace and accumulate credits which are valid for lifetime. So far, over 9,000 learners have registered under CAM.Enrolment for SPEED's courses has now commenced. For a copy of the Prospectus, please visit the SPEED office located at Room QR802, 8/F, Core R, PolyU. Limited copies are also obtainable from the District Offices, public libraries and major outlets of the Commercial Press, Joint Publishing Limited and Hang Seng Bank.Office hours of SPEED are:Mondays to Fridays: 8:30 am ' 7:00 pmSaturdays: 9:00 am ' 12:00 noonSundays and Public Holidays: ClosedEnquiries: 3400 2828 
