
[date]2006.03.14[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni to have fun in carnival[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) will jointly stage the 'PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival 2006' on campus this Sunday (19 March) from 12.00 noon to 6.00 p.m. to cultivate close links between the University and its graduates by bringing them back to campus for a fun-filled Sunday.
The opening ceremony of the carnival will be officiated at by Mr Roy Chung Chi-ping, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President; Dr Lam Tai-fai, FHKPUAA First Vice President; and Mr Johnny Fan Siu-kay, FHKPUAA Second Vice President, and will be joined by three recipients of the past Outstanding PolyU Alumni Awards: Ir Prof. Ng Sai-ho, PolyU Court Member; Mr Otto Poon Lok-to, Chairman, Energy Advisory Committee; and Ir Roger Lai Sze-hoi, Director of Electrical and Mechanical Services, HKSAR Government. The carnival will kick off with a brisk performance by Hong Kong Vigor Marching Band before the opening ceremony which also celebrate the inauguration of FHKPUAA's newly elected Board of Directors.
This year, the event will feature the first ever 'PolyU Alumni 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament', as well as the second 'Federation Cup Inter-Alumni-Association Soccer Tournament'. In addition, participants can brush up their artistic skills in the handicraft corner, share some fun with their kids in the family world or enjoy horse riding, campus orienteering and other activities in the games ground. Other attractions of the carnival will include drum ensemble concert, monocyle performance, rope skipping show, tai-chi demonstration, kids singing and dancing, and magic show. 
Furthermore, participants can tour around PolyU's facilities, including House of Innovation, Intelligent Home, Pao Yue-Kong Library, Student Halls of Residence, Nanotechnology Centre, Optometry Clinic and Multimedia Innovation Centre. A number of sports facilities will also be opened for use for free.
A variety of appetizing snacks will be served in food stalls set up by many sponsors, including Four Seas Global Food Co. Ltd, King Bakery, Mr Brown Coffee and TCBY. They have kindly agreed to donate all the net proceeds to PolyU.
'PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival' has long been a popular event among the PolyU graduates. The last carnival in 2004 drew more than 6,000 participants to PolyU. Over 200 volunteers from more than 30 alumni associations contributed their efforts towards the success of the carnival.
Since its inception in 1937, PolyU has sent forth nearly 240,000 graduates over the years. The event offers the alumni a golden opportunity to reminisce about their campus life. All graduates of PolyU, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School are welcome to bring along their families and friends to the carnival to enjoy the games free of charge. 
For more details, please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/alumni/carnival2006 and for enquiries, call the FHKPUAA office on 2766 5123.
