
[date]2006.09.01[/date]
[title]PolyU further promotes internationalization through admission of new students from across the world[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) officially welcomed in its some 4,500 new full-time first-year undergraduate and higher diploma students at the Welcoming Ceremony held on campus yesterday (1 September). Officiating at the ceremony was President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. The restructuring of PolyU's Faculty of Communication (FCOM) also came into effect yesterday. It involves the detachment of the School of Design (SD) from the Faculty to operate as a separate unit. It highlights SD's special role as the sole provider of tertiary education in design in Hong Kong and a niche area of the University.This academic year 2006/07 sees the admission of 4,135 students funded by UGC, including 2,345 undergraduate and 1,790 higher diploma students; and 400 self-financed undergraduate students.  About 86 per cent of the undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) Main Round Offer have chosen PolyU programmes as one of their top three (Band A) choices. This year, the University has provided full scholarships to about 20 outstanding local students who have achieved excellent HKALE results or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by the international standards. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance per year, have been granted to the students basing on their academic results or performances in non-academic aspects.  PolyU has also admitted 250 students from the Chinese mainland, as compared to 180 last year. The University received 9,600 applications from mainland students this year, a threefold increase from last year's 3,000 applications. Sixty-five of the mainland admittees who achieved excellent results in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) have been awarded scholarships. They will start a one-year foundation programme for undergraduate studies in this academic year prior to their progression to Bachelor's degree studies.With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 537 students are admitted to the University via the 'Sub-system for School Principals' Nominations Scheme', 'Self-Recommendation Scheme' and 'Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme.' In addition, the University has admitted about 13 overseas students from 10 countries this year. They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different application-oriented programmes offered by the University. Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU has developed an extensive network with about 500 partner institutions located across some 35 countries. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 500 international students and sends forth an equivalent number of its students abroad for exchange this year. Currently, more than 230 students from 81 institutions in 17 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.  It is the University's belief that the interaction between local and non-local students will bring an important and enriching dimension to campus life and help cultivate the students' global outlook. 
