
[date]2006.10.09[/date]
[title]PolyU names hotel and tourism resource centre after Dr Che-woo Lui[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (9 October) named its Hotel and Tourism Resource Centre after Dr Che-woo Lui, Chairman of K. Wah Group, in honour of his philanthropic support for PolyU's education and research in hotel and tourism.
Under the name of K. Wah Group, Dr Lui donated $14 million to PolyU to support SHTM's efforts in enhancing the professionalism of hotel chain and hotel brand management in China.
The naming ceremony, held at the Jockey Club Auditorium on PolyU campus, also saw the presentation of PolyU's award parchment for the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration to Dr Lui by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU. The coveted award was conferred on Dr Lui in his absence last year in recognition of his outstanding achievements and contribution to the community.
At the ceremony Dr Lui unveiled a commemorative plaque together with Prof. Poon and Director of SHTM Prof. Kaye Chon before the donation cheque presentation. Another highlight of the event was a talk given by Dr Lui on the world trends in the hotel and tourism industry and the development of tourism in Hong Kong and Macau.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon thanked Dr Lui, a Founding Court Member of PolyU since 1995, for his staunch support to the University. 'PolyU has benefited from Dr Lui's invaluable insights and support in developing our hotel and tourism programmes,' Prof. Poon remarked. 'The donation will not only enable PolyU to gather fund from the Government's third Matching Grant Scheme but also facilitate SHTM's efforts in raising hotel management standards in the Chinese mainland.'
Part of the donation will be used to establish 10 scholarships to support SHTM students to gain one-year practical experience in major hotel chains overseas or in the Chinese mainland.
The rest of the sum will be channelled to conducting researches, holding forums and developing the professional knowledge of SHTM staff. The research projects will review chain hotel management or hotel brand management in China, and with the two themes in focus, a forum on China hospitality research will be held. Furthermore, staff of SHTM will be sponsored to undertake academic exchange with other prominent hotel schools worldwide. 
In his talk to faculty members and students, Dr Lui predicted that resort destinations catering for the different interests of all members of a family would be most sought after in the Asian tourism market. In his opinion, Hong Kong and Macau have their own respective competitive strengths and unique positioning, and the economy of South China will benefit from the synergy of the development of the two cities. Dr Lui was also optimistic about the future of the MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, Exhibitions) industry, which, he believed, would be an important direction of development for the tourism industry in Asia and China. He added that chain hotel brand management would be a major development trend in the Chinese hotel industry. Dr Lui also stressed that his Group would adhere to the principles of preservation, enhancement and innovation in its business development in Macau.
Dr Lui is a renowned entrepreneur in Hong Kong. He was the founder of the K. Wah Group, which has made remarkable achievements in the hotel, property development and construction materials industries throughout its 50 years of operation. In 2002, K. Wah, having been granted a gaming licence in Macau, started to participate in the city's gaming, entertainment and hotel industries.
Dr Lui is also a pioneer in the hotel industry. He seeks to nurture the growth of locally developed hotel brands, and to play a significant role in the professional development of the industry. In recent years, he was much devoted to propelling the long term advancement of hotel chains in the Chinese mainland.
The Che-woo Lui Hotel &amp; Tourism Resource Centre on PolyU campus caters for the research needs of PolyU students, staff and the hotel and tourism industry. With a floor area of 250 square meters, the Centre is a depository of hospitality and tourism books, journals, magazines, statistical bulletins and audio-video learning materials from around the world. 
