
[date]2005.11.23[/date]
[title]Smart Fabrics for Magic Cosmetics[/title]
Making use of patented shape memory fabric technology, pioneering researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textile and Clothing (ITC) have produced a new generation of magical facial masks which can "sense" the temperature of human skin and then release nutritious ingredients.
This breakthrough is a further development of the world's first cellulose-made shape memory fabric; which was invented by a research team headed by Prof. Hu Jinlian, Principal Investigator of the shape memory project and founder of the University's Shape Memory Textile Centre.
This project is funded by the Research Grants Council and the team has filed several patent applications for this new technology. In addition, Mr Liu Baohua, PhD student working under Prof. Hu's supervision on this new topic, has recently won the "Best Original Paper Award" and the Herman and Myrtle Goldstein Student Paper competition award by the US-based Fiber Society and the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists (AATCC) respectively.
According to Prof. Hu, the temperature-control function of these facial masks will be triggered by contact with human skin, whose temperature is around 36 Celsius degrees. Not only can the facial masks release ingredients such as vitamins and aloe vera, it also feel less sticky and more comfortable to delicate human skins. Moreover, these facial masks can preserve ingredients much better and hence avoid unnecessary wastage of expensive ingredients in the process of packing and storage.
She added that with the addition of chitosan, an ingredient extracted from the shells of seafood such as crabs and shrimps, anti-bacterial function can be further achieved. This make materials made from shape memory fabrics more versatile for other purposes, for instance, in making anti-bacterial wound dressings. Over the years, Prof. Hu and her team have registered a total of eight patents for the development of shape memory fabrics in the US and China. Since the special fabrics can readily recover their original shapes, this makes them ideal materials for the textiles and garment industry. Shape memory garments are distinguished from other wrinkle-free garments by achieving crease retention, flat appearance, and bagging recovery when washed in hot water and /or steam.
Prof. Hu and her team have also achieved international reputation for their insight in this emerging area. She received the Award for Distinguished Achievement in Fiber Science from the Fiber Society in 2001; and the Excellent Research Papers Award by the China Textile Engineer Society in the past years. She also won a Silver Award for her discovery in the Brussels Eureka 2004, also known as the 53rd World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology.
The PolyU's Shape Memory Textile Centre was established with an $8M grant from the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund in June 2003. With strong support from the Government, industry and the University, it further secured another more than $12M for developing shape memory fibers in 2004. Prof. Philip Yeung Kwok-wing, Chair Professor of Textiles and Clothing, is the Centre's adviser.
