
[date]2005.10.30[/date]
[title]PolyU to confer four honorary doctorates at Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon four prominent figures in recognition of their outstanding achievements and contribution to the community at its 11th Congregation to be held on 3 December. This year's honorees are Mr Kenneth Fang Hung and Dr Lui Che-woo, both of whom will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration, Mr Kan Tai-keung, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Design, and Mr Barry Lam, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Technology. Mr Fang, Chairman of Fang Brothers Knitting Limited, is a highly respected and successful industrialist in the textiles and clothing sector. He has made outstanding contributions to the industry and was a recipient of the Industrialist of the Year Award in 2002. Mr Fang is currently Honorary Chairman of the Hong Kong Textile Council, Honorary President of the Hong Kong Wollen and Synthetic Knitting Manufacturers Association, and Honorary Advisor of the Garment Advisory Committee of Hong Kong Trade Development Council. Mr Fang also achieved remarkable accomplishments while serving as Chairman of the Hong Kong Productivity Council from 1994 to 2002. He is currently Member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), Member of the Standing Committee of Jiangsu Province of CPPCC, and Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Quality of Water Supplies. He had served as Member of the University Grants Committee and Founding Member of the PolyU Court. In recognition of his significant contributions to the social and industrial development of Hong Kong, Mr Fang was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government in 2004. An internationally famed designer and painter, Mr Kan embarked on his career as a designer in 1967. Rising fast to prominence in the design field, Mr Kan launched his own design company in 1976. His talents and distinctive style of tapping Chinese arts in his influential works have won him over 300 awards both at home and abroad over the years. Mr Kan's works have been featured in many leading international publictions and collected by many renowned museums in the world. In 1993, he was selected by Japan's prestigious design magazine IDEA as one of the world's 100 Graphic Designers and was the first Chinese to be included in Who's Who in Graphic Design in 1995. He was not only the first from the design profession to have received the 'Ten Outstanding Young Persons' Award in 1979, but also recipicent of the Urban Council Design Grand Award (Best Designer of the Exhibition) in 1984, Artist of the Year Award ' Designer of the Year in 1991 and Outstanding Achievements Award in 1998 respectively. In 2002, he was named the World's Outstanding Chinese Designer by the Hong Kong Design Centre. Mr Kan takes an active role in promoting art and design and advancing art and design education in Hong Kong and the mainland, publishing more than ten books on design principles. In 2003, at the invitation of Shantou University to help organize the Cheung Kong School of Art and Design, he became Dean of the School, furthering his commitment in the development of China's modern design.Mr Lam, an internationally recognized notebook computer tycoon, founded Quanta Computer in 1988 and has since been the Chairman and CEO of the company. Under his capable and insightful leadership, his company quickly stood out in the computing industry and became a leading notebook computer manufacturer in the world. With over 30 years of experience, Mr Lam is widely hailed as a visionary and has been recognized globally for his accomplishments. In 1999 and 2001, Mr Lam was twice chosen by Business Week as one of the 50 'Stars of Asia'. With his unique management philosophy, he was on Business Week's list of the top 25 managers of the year in 2002. Mr Lam is also reputed for his dedication to the promotion of arts. In 1999, he set up Quanta Education Foundation to support charitable activities and to promote arts and culture. He is also the Director of Cloud Gate Theatre Group and a Director of the Taipei Modern Art Museum.Dr Lui is a distinguished entrepreneur and philanthropist. He is Chairman of K. Wah Group, the parent company of K. Wah International Holdings Ltd., K. Wah Construction Materials Ltd., K Wah Properties (Holdings) Ltd., and Stanford Hotels International. Apart from making remarkable contributions to the development of the local economy, Dr Lui is also a staunch supporter of education and community services. He has been serving as Founding Court Member of PolyU since 1995. He has held many public offices over the years, in such capacities as Chairman of the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Hotel Owners and Member of the Ninth National Committee of the CPPCC. Dr Lui is also widely known as an ardent supporter of professional training for the hotel industry in Hong Kong. Dr Lui's outstanding achievements and contributions have won him many honours. He is an Honorary Citizen of Nanjing, Guangzhou and Jiangmen. In 1995, an asteroid was named 'Lui Che Woo Star' by the International Asteroid/ Comet Naming Committee. In 2001 and 2004, he received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Victoria and the University of Concordia in Canada respectively.
