
[date]2007.01.04[/date]
[title]HKCC celebrates the topping-out of Hunghom Bay Campus[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a leader in Associate Degree education, yesterday (4 January) held a Topping-out Ceremony for its first independent campus at Hunghom Bay. Scheduled to be open in mid 2007, the new campus will provide state-of-the-art teaching, learning and student development facilities for about 3,000 Associate Degree students.  Addressing the ceremony, PolyU President and Council Chairman of College of        Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE), Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'HKCC's Hunghom Bay Campus is not merely a comprehensive teaching building, but a lively, intelligent and environmentally friendly landmark with its own character. Integrating aesthetic design with functional considerations, the new campus will facilitate HKCC's future initiatives and help meet the needs of its growing student population.'  The 19-storey high, 4,400 square metres new campus is the fruitful result of the Government's granting of the site alongside a medium-term loan of $424 million for the construction and equipment costs in mid 2003. Speaking at the ceremony, Associate Dean of CPCE Dr Linda Fan remarked 'It is my belief that this vibrant campus environment and the 200-plus learning-enriching extra-curricular activities will complement HKCC's quality holistic education in developing students' potentials to the fullest.'  The well-equipped campus has full wireless coverage to facilitate students' connectivity to the internet as well as HKCC's e-learning platform. It also provides spacious terraces and communal areas with greeneries for out-of-classroom discussions and recreation purposes. During construction, various designs have been used to save energy and minimize waste, which led to the campus in achieving Hong Kong Building Environmental Assessment Method (HKBEAM) award.  A second campus of the HKCC in West Kowloon is under construction and targeted to be put into operation in early 2008. The land site in West Kowloon is also granted by the Government with a loan of $458 million. Together, these two campuses will accommodate HKCC's estimated student population of 6,600 by the year 2012 and contribute to the nurturing of the younger generation in this knowledge-based economy.    
