
[date]2006.11.14[/date]
[title]$380,000 scholarships for outstanding HKCC students[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) held a scholarship presentation ceremony yesterday (14 November) to honour a total of 82 Associate Degree students who attained distinguished academic performance in the year 2005/06. 
This year, a total of 67 students were presented with the HKCC Outstanding Student Award Scholarship, including 9 Gold, 27 Silver and 31 Bronze awardees who received scholarship grants of $12,000, $6,000 and $2,500 respectively. These scholarship recipients came from a variety of disciplines including Applied Social Sciences, Arts, Beauty and Health Therapy, Bilingual Communication, Business, China Business, Design, Engineering, English for Business Communication, Information Technology as well as Statistics and Computing for Business.
In addition, 11 students of the Associate in Bilingual Communication were awarded the 'CBS Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' granted by the Department of CBS. Among them, five Year 1 students were presented $2,000 each while six Year 2 students were presented $1,666 each. Also, four students from the Associate in Statistics and Computing for Business received the 'AMA Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' which was sponsored by the Department of AMA.
In this academic year, besides setting aside $3 million for various scholarships, HKCC has also planned 200-plus co-curricular activities, including internship programmes, cultural exchange, leadership training, mentorship programmes, English and Putonghua enhancement projects, study tours, complementary studies courses, social services, and many others. All these projects and activities will complement HKCC's quality education and vigorous campus environment in cultivating students' holistic growth.
Speaking at the ceremony, HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung said, 'At HKCC, we stress the utmost importance of inspiring individuals' potentials through whole-person development. To this end, we have introduced a total of 10 different types of scholarships and support funds. Among them, the HKCC Outstanding Student Award Scholarship is set up to award those students who have excelled in their first year of studies. Only the students with very best academic performance selected among the top five per cent are granted the award this year.' 
Officiating at the ceremony were Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of the PolyU-affiliated College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE); Dr Linda Fan, Associate Dean of CPCE; Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC; Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Head of the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies (CBS); and Dr Chan Cheong-ki, Head of the Department of Applied Mathematics (AMA) of the University. More than 100 students, parents and teaching staff attended the ceremony.  
