
[date]2006.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU excels in building services engineering teaching and research[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Building Services Engineering (BSE) has recently been honoured with the Happold Brilliant Award for Excellence in Teaching 2005/06 by the UK-based Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE), in recognition of its contributions to the education and research in the field. 
Speaking at a press briefing yesterday (29 November), Prof. John Gilleard, Head of BSE, said: 'I am pleased to note that our department, being one of the largest academic units worldwide, and a major institution in Hong Kong devoted to building services engineering, has been acclaimed for its teaching excellence and high quality of applied research since its establishment in 1981.
'The international recognition has further reinforced our efforts. Credits must be given to our faculty members whose hard work and concerted efforts have contributed to the outstanding development of the department.'
Prof. Gilleard also remarked: 'The essence of building services engineering is to assure optimum design and efficient operation of the buildings. Given the strong impacts buildings have on the occupants and on the environment, building services engineers and facility managers play an important role. We will continue to offer quality programmes and nurture professional talents in the field.'
PolyU has long been rendering its expertise through active participation in applied researches and major consultancy projects for the government and industry. During the press briefing, some of the department's research breakthroughs on energy optimization technologies were introduced.
BSE's Building Automation and Intelligent Control research group, led by Associate Head Prof. Wang Shengwei, is currently working with the industry on 'Building energy efficiency through intelligent control and diagnosis'. With energy optimization technologies and diagnosis tools, energy consumption in buildings can be minimized. The research team has constructed a virtual building, including cooling plant and air-conditioning systems, in order to test and analyse the best strategies to determine the optimal control of the building services systems prior to site implementation.
The research group has strong international collaborative links with universities and research institutes from across the globe, including the US, Canada, Europe, Japan, SE Asia and the Mainland. An expert in the field, Prof. Wang is an active member of the Energy Conservation in Building and Community Systems research programmes of the International Energy Agency. 
In an attempt to address the problem of global warming, BSE's Research Centre for Building Environmental Engineering, led by Associate Professor Niu Jianlei, is working on the development of 'New Thermal Energy Storage (TES) material to realize low-energy building cooling and heating'. One of the technologies developed is the nano-technology based, micro-encapsulated phase-change material. When it is mixed with water, milky slurry is formed, and it can function as TES and heat transfer working fluid to replace the plain water or ice-slurry now commonly used in building cooling systems. Depending on local climatic conditions, TES can eliminate the use of electricity-driven chillers, which consume the most electricity in current air-conditioning systems.
In the research community, efforts to develop TES material could be dated back to the energy crisis in the 1970's. Dr Niu, Principal Investigator of the project, attributes the breakthrough to the interdisciplinary research collaboration with PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, Tsinghua University, and Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands. Scientific research results have been accepted by authoritative International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer. The research is supported by the Governments's Innovation and Technology Fund and Competitive Earmarked Research Grant of the Research Grants Council.  
BSE offers programmes in building services engineering, from higher diploma, undergraduate, postgraduate diploma to master's level. It also offers Master of Science/ Postgraduate Diploma in Facility Management and Master of Science/ Postgraduate Diploma in Fire and Safety Engineering.
Established in 1976, CIBSE is dedicated to the development of better buildings through education and research for the benefit of all. It is an international body which represents and provides services to the building services profession, with a membership of 17,000.
