
[date]2006.11.28[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 2nd International Conference on Brand Management[/title]
More than 600 professionals from business and academic sectors were attracted to the 2nd International Conference on Brand Management jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Asian Centre for Brand Management (ACBM) and the Hong Kong Design Centre held at PolyU yesterday (28 November).
Themed 'Creating Value with Brands: A Global Perspective', the conference aimed at exploring different aspects and approaches to create customer value that will enhance brand equity of a company. It also provided an important platform for the participants to meet international experts in brand management.
The opening ceremony was officiated at by Mr Francis Ho, Permanent Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology (Communications and Technology), The Hon. Victor Lo, Member of the Executive Council and Chairman of PolyU Council and HKDC's Board of Governors and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong.
Addressing at the opening ceremony, Prof. Poon said, 'By bringing together world class brand management experts from academia and the related business sectors, this Conference surely provided an invaluable platform for participants to explore further ideas on this important concept of brand management.'
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business said, 'The conference has helped focus on the topical research issues related to service brand which has importance for creating firm values.'
Several prominent academics in the branding and marketing areas participated in keynote presentations at the conference. They included Prof. Roland T. Rust, Chair of Department of Marketing and Executive Director of Center for Excellence in Service of Robert H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland and Prof. Rod Brodie, Professor of Marketing and Associate Dean of Business School of The University of Auckland.
Leaders from business and industry also shared their experiences and reflection in two practitioner forums. They included Mrs Margaret Leung, General Manager, Global Co-head, Commercial Banking, The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and Dr Eden Woon, Vice President, Greater China, Starbucks (China) Coffee Company.
The Conference was staged as one of the flagship programmes of this year's Business of Design Week. It is sponsored by the God Peak Industries Ltd., Hong Kong Institute of Marketing and the Hong Kong Trade Development Council and was supported by the following organizations (in alphabetical order):
ATV news, China Enterprise Reputation &amp; Credibility Association (Overseas) Ltd, Hong Kong Association for Customer Service Excellence, Hong Kong Brand Development Council, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong Productivity Council, Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency, PolyU Institute for Enterprise CEO Club, Quality Tourism Services Association, Support and Consultation Centre for SMEs Trade and Industry Department, The Association of Accredited Advertising Agents of Hong Kong, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, The Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong, The French Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Hong Kong, The Hong Kong Advertisers Association, The Hong Kong Designers Association, The Hong Kong Management Association, The Hong Kong Retail Management Association, The Singapore Chamber of Commerce (Hong Kong), The Wall Street Journal and Tradelink.
The Hong Kong Design Centre, which co-organized this Conference with PolyU, is a non-profit making organization established in 2001 by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations to promote design as an essential component in business and to increase awareness of the ways in which design can contribute to quality of life and prosperity.
For further information on the Conference, please visit its official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/mm/acbm.
