
[date]2006.11.27[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni join hands in green mission[/title]
About 1,000 alumni of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and their friends and family members planted more than 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Tai Po Waterfront Park yesterday (26 November). 
Jointly organized by PolyU, the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD), this annual event was kicked off this year by Mr Ambrose Lee Siu-kwong, Secretary for Security; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Eddy Yau Kwok Yin, Assistant Director (Leisure Services), Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President; and Dr Lam Tai-fai and Mr Johnny Fan, FHKPUAA Vice Presidents. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the event, Prof. Poon said, 'This tree-planting activity aims at uniting PolyU alumni's efforts toward the betterment of Hong Kong's environment and strengthening a sense of fellowship among graduates of PolyU, as well as that among its predecessors, namely the Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School.'
Also supporting the green mission were PolyU alumnus and Miss Hong Kong 2005 Miss Tracy Ip Chui-chui and famous folk song singer Mr Albert Au, who sang with the accompaniment of children dancers to add colour to the event. Game booths and other programmes such as African drum and dancing performance were staged by PolyU alumni associations and other supporting organizations. Members of the organizing committee also sang together with Mr Au to bring the fun-filled event to a satisfactory close.
Each participant of the green mission was encouraged to donate at least HK$120. The net proceeds would be equally divided and donated to The Community Chest of Hong Kong and to PolyU to support its alumni development respectively.  
This year, more than 10 local and overseas alumni bodies of PolyU rendered their support to this meaningful event by contributing through sponsorships in cash or in-kind. Furthermore, Texment Fashions Limited and Asia Pacific Catering sponsored respectively windbreakers and refreshments for the participants. 
This was the third time that PolyU presented this greening activity. The debut of the event, launched in November 2004, won Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the 'Alumni Relations Programmes' category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first local institution bestowed with such honour.
   
