
[date]2006.11.10[/date]
[title]PolyU students show commitment for community services[/title]
More than 1,200 students and staff of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have rendered their expertise and knowledge to various sectors of the community by participating in the latest Community Service Learning Programme.  The programme was launched last year and jointly organized by Student Affairs Office, over 20 academic departments and the Students' Union to encourage students to develop their social commitment and responsibility by serving the community with their professional knowledge. A special ceremony was held yesterday (10 November) on the university campus in honour of those exemplary community service projects.  Out of 47 nominations, 15 projects were selected for their outstanding performance. The awards were presented by Guest-of-honour Ms Winnie Ng, Executive Director, The Kowloon Motor Bus Company Limited; and Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Acting President, to the students.   Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Ko said, 'We are pleased that our students have taken an active role in providing volunteer services to serve those needy people both in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Their spirit and sense of social responsibility should be positively acknowledged.' One of the overall winning projects came from the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics. The participants have practised their knowledge by assisting in the reconstruction of the Hong Kong Playground Association Silvermine Bay Outer Recreation Camp, particularly in producing a topographic map of the campsite for the protection of a relic in a construction project.  Another group of students from the Department of Mechanical Engineering reaped the award by developing a Cuff-holding Device for the Elderly. This device can help fix the position of long-sleeve clothes and prevent them from trapping at the upper arm when elderly people are wearing clothes. This project has also won them a second prize in an open competition. Yesterday's ceremony also marked the beginning of the Showcase on Community Service Learning Projects which is held from now until 11 November on the university campus. The Showcase displays the many meaningful projects launched in the past year, and features the collaboration between the University and various non-government organizations (NGOs) to be launched in 2006/07. More than 500 elderly and disabled people from 100 NGOs will also join the showcase, which include activities like free health screening services, stall games, exhibition and performances. 
