
[date]2006.11.08[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes Integrative Community Health Centre outside campus[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s first off-campus Integrative Community Health Centre (ICHC) in Lai King, Kwai Tsing was officially opened by Prof. Leif Svanstrom, Chairman of World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Centre on Community Safety Promotion yesterday (8 November).
The opening of this new facility was joined by many community leaders. Other officiating guests included Dr Lily Chiu, Cluster Chief Executive, Kowloon West Cluster, Hospital Authority; Dr Ng Tat Lun, BBS, JP, Chairman, Occupational Safety and Health Council; Mr Chow Yick Hay, Chairman, Kwai Tsing Safe Community and Healthy City Association and Chairman, Kwai Tsing District Council; Mr Allan Chow, JP, District Officer, Kwai Tsing District Office; and Prof. George Woo, Associate Dean, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, PolyU.
Introducing this initiative, Prof. Woo said, 'The ICHC is built on the concept of integrative holistic healthcare, and aims at providing health protection and therapeutic modalities at the community level. It will strive to promote the bio-psycho-spiritual well-being of the public through application-oriented and theory-informed practice. The ultimate goal of ICHC is community empowerment for positive health management.'
To deliver multi-disciplinary and integrative services to the community, the ICHC is staffed with a diverse team of health care professionals, and will be operated with the support of the Telehealth System, a computerized system successfully developed by PolyU's School of Nursing in collaboration with Princess Margaret Hospital and Kwai Tsing District Council in 2002, taking advantage of the efficiency of telecommunications technologies.
Having undergone a pilot run for two years, the Centre is now offering a wide spectrum of services, including self-administered health assessment, primary eye care, consultation, integrative weight management, integrative pain management, integrative beauty therapy, and integrative aromatherapy and foot reflexology, at one stop. Besides providing clinical services with a non-profit making impetus, the ICHC also serves as a centre for nursing practice and health-related research.
The Centre is also taking the lead in providing diabetes mellitus retinopathy (DMR) screening service for the community, following the signing of an agreement between PolyU's School of Optometry and the Kwai Tsing Safe Community and Healthy City Association in May. Since the soft launch of DMR screening service, about 2,500 diabetes patients have benefited from the service. Among these patients, 35% are found to suffer from various stages of diabetic retinopathy. Nevertheless, most of them are in the mild stage and are receiving proper patient advice and further multi-disciplinary care to prevent irreversible vision loss.
Diabetes mellitus retinopathy is a common complication associated with severe diabetes, a disease troubling about one-tenth of the total population in Hong Kong, according to the official statistics of the Hospital Authority. The Centre is expected to provide DMR services to as many as 15,000 residents annually when its operation is in full swing.
On the first visit, a client will go through an initial health screening. Registered nurses will then assess the health condition of the client to identify any health problems, understand the client's expectation on treatment and arrange for health education if necessary.  An integrative health programme may be introduced after the health assessment in accordance with the client's health status and needs. The client will be given a membership card for his/her subsequent logging on to the Telehealth System and access his/her health data to monitor his/her own health continuously. The client is expected to manage his/her own health by responsible actions proactively.
The ICHC, occupying a gross floor area of over 2,000 square feet, is located on Ground Floor, 7-10 Yeung King House, Lai King Estate, Kwai Chung. For booking and enquiries, please contact the Centre on 2370 1799.
