
[date]2006.12.20[/date]
[title]PolyU dedicates East Wing of Student Hostels to Sir Gordon Wu[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (20 December) officially named the East Wing of its Student Hostels after Dr Sir Gordon Wu Ying-sheung, in recognition of his significant contribution in the overall development of PolyU while serving as the University's Council and Court Chairman. 
A commemorative plaque marking the occasion was officially unveiled yesterday at the naming ceremony by Sir Gordon, PolyU Council Chairman The Hon. Victor Lo Chung-wing and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong.
Speaking at the ceremony, The Hon. Victor Lo remarked, 'Sir Gordon headed the University Court and Council consecutively for about nine years. During his term, he led PolyU to important achievements and developments by his wealth of knowledge in higher education and management. He also generously donated HK$15 million to the University for the exploitation of various areas. We found this naming decision the best way to express our sincere thanks to his persisting support with tremendous enthusiasm.' 
Sir Gordon was the Founding Chairman of the University Court from 1995-1997 and was appointed Chairman of the Council from 1997-2003. Since July this year, he took up the chairmanship of the Board of the newly established PolyU Development Foundation and has been leading the Board to make the best use of donations according to the University's long-term development strategies.  
A renowned entrepreneur, Sir Gordon is the Chairman of Hopewell Holdings Limited who has been involved in numerous infrastructure, buildings and development projects locally, in the Chinese mainland and South-East Asia. Sir Gordon is also active in community services, and has received many awards and honours over the years. 
Out of Sir Gordon's many contributions, he rendered guidance and expert advice in building this Student Halls of Residence from plan sketching and constructing stages, to equipping the halls with the many convenient facilities and a relaxing environment for students. State-of-the-art designs which were evolved from Sir Gordon's ideas included the multi-purpose and spacious dining hall, an amphitheatre which allows flexible change of settings for different functions, as well as the installation of bay windows inside the rooms to allow maximum sunlight.
With a capacity of 3000-plus students, the PolyU Student Hostels provide abundant opportunities for students to experience dynamic university life which complements PolyU's effort in nurturing students' all-round development. 
