
[date]2007.03.09[/date]
[title]PolyU puts first International Lingerie Forum on stage[/title]
The world's lingerie fashion business is rapidly expanding to the Far East affecting the whole supply chain of the industry. The Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will join hands with Eurovet, the world leader in lingerie exhibition, to organize the first International Lingerie Forum on 2 April on PolyU campus.
The Forum aims to provide lingerie industrialists and academics all over the world with a new international platform for idea exchange in Hong Kong, in light of the significant moves in the design and development of hi-tech and eco-friendly lingerie.
Under the theme of 'Lingerie Education, Innovation and Environment', renowned leaders of multi-national lingerie organizations and academics will speak at the Forum, with a focus on stimulating new thinking, industrial collaboration and professional education for future development of the lingerie business.
The Forum will be held one day before the first Hong Kong Mode Lingerie exhibition to be held in the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Leading and prominent professionals and academics in the lingerie industry are invited to be speakers of the Forum. They include Ms Annie Wong, President of MAST Industries (Far East); Mr Harald Hinderberger, Head of Product Management Divison, TRIUMPH International Overseas; Mr Makoto Oyama, President and Director of WACOAL (Shanghai) Research &amp; Development; Ms Jos Berry, Director of CONCEPT PARIS, to name just a few.
The Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of PolyU is the first lingerie institute in the Asian Pacific, established based on its many achievements in lingerie research and substantial support from the industry. It offers the unique BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel underpinned by original research and organizes training courses for the local and overseas lingerie industry.
Eurovet, the French Knitting Federation's daughter company, has more than 20 years of strategic partnership with major lingerie industry representatives around the world. Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Association is the official key industry partner who assists Eurovet in organizing its first lingerie and beachwear show in Hong Kong.
Detailed information of the Forum is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/forum
