
[date]2007.02.27[/date]
[title]World’s first Doctoral Programme in Hotel and Tourism Management incorporated unique Asian Wave[/title]
In the 2007/08 academic year, the PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) will launch the world's first Doctoral Programme in Hotel and Tourism Management which incorporated the distinctive Asian style and elements.
'We have seen the evolution of hotel and tourism services and training through the European Wave and North American Wave. The industry is now entering the Asian Wave with continued eastward shift in the locus of innovations and new management styles. We stand in the forefront of this trend and design this innovative programme within the unique Asian context,' said SHTM Director Prof. Kaye Chon.Programme Leader Prof. Bob McKercher of SHTM explained that the Asian Wave is unique in the way that it combines the best of European and American hotel and tourism education with the Asian service standards of excellence. Furthermore, the industry is undergoing a period of unprecedented development due to the emerging trends in tourism and macro-environmental changes, mainly attributed to China and Asia's pre-eminent effect on the tourism industry and the global economy.
Building on the above factors, the programme will equip students with the skills to identify and evaluate emerging markets and formulate the best strategy to capitalize on these trends. The programme is ideal for senior industry executives as well as academics in tourism and hospitality education who wish to upgrade their knowledge and practical skills.
Students of this programme will be required to complete 51 credits, including seven core subjects, two electives and a thesis of in-depth applied research. Another uniqueness of this programme is its flexible mixed-mode delivery format which enables students to study on full/ part-time basis or a mix of both with minimal disruption to their work.
The programme will commence in September 2007 and is now inviting applications until 30 April 2007. For further enquiries and submission of application, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/study.
