
[date]2007.02.26[/date]
[title]PolyU designated as training centre for national translation test[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been recently designated by the Central Government's Ministry of Personnel (MOP) as the only authorized trainer for the China Aptitude Test for Translators and Interpreters (CATTI) in HKSAR.
PolyU will launch a 14-week training course, which includes 42 hours of seminar, tutorial and workshop, for students sitting for CATTI Level 3 examination. The University is inviting application for this course from now until 7 March.
Jointly launched by MOP and the China International Publishing Group, the CATTI is the most authoritative proficiency qualification test for translators and interpreters in the country. This qualification is also considered a pre-requisite for achieving professional status as a translator or interpreter on the Chinese mainland.
Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Associate Dean of the University's Faculty of Communication and Head of the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, said this recognition by state authorities has further affirmed PolyU's leading position as a provider of language training in the professional context.
She added that the intensive training programme to be offered by PolyU's Centre for Translation Studies will help local candidates sit for the national examination. The new training programme is also suitable for those with an interest in translation and those who need to handle a lot of translation and bilingual documents in the work place.
According to official statistics, more than 30,000 candidates have sat for CATTI since its launch in July 2003. Fuelled by the hosting of 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing and China's accession to the World Trade Organization, there is an ever-increasing demand for professional translators and interpreters countrywide.
The CATTI examination is broadly divided into four levels by the standard of language proficiency, namely Level 3, Level 2, Level 1 and Senior Level. PolyU will initially offer, through its Centre for Translation Studies, intensive training courses for candidates sitting for CATTI Level 3 Examination.
Candidates having completed CATTI Level 3 examination are regarded as having rudimentary scientific and cultural knowledge and a general competence for bilingual translation and interpretation and can accomplish general translation work. Those having completed Level 3 examination may further proceed to Level 2 and Level 1, and then to the level of Senior Translator and Interpreter.
The CATTI is administered by the China International Publishing Group on the Chinese mainland. Successful candidates will be awarded the Translation and Interpretation Proficiency Qualification Certificate of the People's Republic of China.
For course registration and further enquiries, please enter the website of PolyU's School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) at www.speed.polyu.edu.hk.
