
[date]2006.12.05[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Info Day on Taught Postgraduate Programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will invite applications for its 2007/08 taught postgraduate programmes from 20 December onwards. To give prospective applicants first-hand information on the programmes, a series of seminars will be organized by various academic departments on the Info Day on 9 December (Saturday) from 2.30 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. on campus.
Themed 'Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU', the Info Day titled 'Postgraduate Study at PolyU' will give prospective applicants in-depth details of the programmes through around 50 information seminars organised by six Faculties namely Applied Science and Textiles, Business, Communication, Construction and Land Use, Engineering, Health and Social Sciences, and the independent School of Design and School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
In 2007/08, a total of 31 taught postgraduate programmes or schemes, which lead to a total of around 80 awards, will be on offer, including two new programmes, namely, Doctor of Hotel and Tourism Management and Master of Arts in Global Fashion Supply Chain Management. 
The Doctor of Hotel and Tourism Management programme is the first-of-its-kind in the world and is launched to meet the market's increasing need for a professional doctorate qualification. It provides graduates with a strong theoretical and research base to prepare them for senior educational, research and management positions in the hotel and tourism industry. The Master of Arts in Global Fashion Supply Chain Management programme, with its focus on the supply chain management in fashion and textile, will offer students plenty of opportunities to attend international seminars and overseas tours to broaden their horizon of global vision, on top of equipping them with advanced core knowledge and latest technology of the industries. 
For more information on the Info Day, programmes and application, please visit the webpage: www.polyu.edu.hk/study.
Please submit applications online at above listed webpage. As all applications received will be considered on a rolling basis, applicants are advised to submit their applications as early as possible.
For more information, please call PolyU's admission Enquiry Hotline: 2333 0600.
