
[date]2006.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU to host 2nd International Conference on Brand Management[/title]
Jointly organised by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Asian Centre for Brand Management (ACBM) and the Hong Kong Design Centre, the 2nd International Conference on Brand Management will take place in the PolyU Jockey Club Auditorium on 28 November (Tuesday). Registration is now under way.
Themed "Creating Value with Brands: A Global Perspective", the conference aims at exploring different aspects and approaches to create customer value that will enhance brand equity of a company. It provides an important platform for the participants to meet international experts in brand management.
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business said, "Bringing together world-class branding experts from academia and industry sectors, this conference will identify global trends in brand management practice and opportunities in developing brand strategies, and will explore the use of innovative designs in brand building and management, opening up to the audience new dimensions in the discipline."
"Keeping abreast of the latest practices and research in brand management will enable companies to devise sound policies to support consumer-centric innovation through value analysis, creative design, market positioning and service quality maintained by committed employees," she added.
The one-day event will comprise academic and practitioner forums. The following top academics in the branding and marketing areas will give keynote presentations at the conference:
Prof. Roland T. Rust, Chair of Department of Marketing and Director of Centre for Excellence in Service of Robert H. Smith School of Business, University of Maryland, will discuss "How Service Changes Brand Management"; 
Prof. Rod Brodie, Professor of Marketing and Associate Dean of Business School of The University of Auckland, will give a presentation titled "Service Branding: Integrating Consumer and Relationship Marketing to Create Value"; and 
Prof. Sundar Bharadwaj, Associate Professor of Department of Marketing of Goizueta Business School, Emory University, will share his insights on the theme. 
Leaders from business and industry will also share their experiences and reflection in two practitioner forums. They include Mrs Margaret Leung, General Manager, Global Co-head, Commercial Banking, The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation; Ms Viveca Chan, Founder, WE Worldwide Partners; Mr Anant Deboor, Director of Strategic Planning, JWT Hong Kong; Mr Alfred Chan, Managing Director, The Hong Kong and China Gas Company; Mr Alan Wong, Director of Marketing, DHL (Hong Kong); and Dr Eden Woon, Vice President, Greater China, Starbucks (China) Coffee Company.
The conference is staged as one of the flagship programmes of this year's Business of Design Week, running from 27 November to 2 December and presented by Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC). HKDC is a non-profit making organisation established in 2001 by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations to promote design as an essential component in business and to increase awareness of the ways in which design can contribute to quality of life and prosperity.
Admission tickets are now available to public. Registration form could be downloaded at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/mm/acbm
Early Bird (for registration on or before 13 November) HK$1,200
Standard HK$ 1,500
