
[date]2006.12.09[/date]
[title]More than 200 logistics experts attended International Conference hosted by PolyU[/title]
More than 200 academics, industry professionals and policy makers in the fields of logistics and supply chain from the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and other parts of the world have been attracted to the International Conference on Greater China Supply Chain and Logistics (GCSCL) 2006, which is organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 9 to 11 December.
Kicked off at an opening ceremony by PolyU Associate Dean of Faculty of Business Prof. John Liu yesterday (9 December), the Conference this year, under the theme 'Globalization, Innovation, Integration', comprised a roundtable discussion session, four keynote speeches, 22 presentations and a one-day study tour to logistics facilities.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Liu said, 'The Conference provides a major platform in Asia for exchanging the latest scholarly outputs of the related disciplines and facilitating industrial collaboration among different countries and regions.' He added that it was an honour of PolyU to host the large-scale international conference on behalf of Hong Kong.
GCSCL, formerly known as 'Greater China Logistics Forum and Academic Conference', has been organized annually on a rotating basis among the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan since 2002.
The four keynote speakers of the Conference were Mr Rajaish Bajpaee, President and Group Managing Director, Eurasia International (China) Limited Partnership; Mr Simon Yam, Managing Director ' Greater China, TNT Freight Management (HK) Limited; Prof. Martin Christopher, Cranfield School of Management, Cranfield University, UK and Prof. Mike Bell, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, UK.
The roundtable discussion session focused on the topic 'Integration or Marginalization? Opportunities and Threats for the Logistics Industries in Greater China'. Eminent speakers including Miss Janise Tse, Deputy Secretary for Economic Development and Labour, Hong Kong SAR Government; Mr Gilbert Lau, Managing Director of Oriental Logistics Group of Companies; Mr Hooi Chong Ng, Strategic Director of BALtrans Holding Ltd; Prof. John Liu, Department Head and Chair Professor, Department of Logistics, PolyU; and academics from Soochow University and Nankai University have shared their experiences and expert opinions about the subject.The presentation sessions were grouped into sub-themes of concern by both the academics and the professionals, including such issues as innovation in supply chain technologies, supply chain strategy and policy, collaboration in regional logistics, reverse logistics, green logistics, legal aspects of supply chain management, professional training for contemporary logistics and MS/OR theories and models. More than 80 papers have been presented at the conference.
GCSCL 2006 is co-organized by PolyU, Nankai University, Soochow University, Southeast University, Dong Hwa University, University of Hannover, China Transportation Association, Hong Kong Logistics Association, Global Council of Logistics Management and Oriental Logistics Group of Companies in Hong Kong. For more details please visit the GCSCL 2006 website at http://www.lgt.polyu.edu.hk/gcscl.
