
[date]2006.12.18[/date]
[title]PolyU DBA on the world map with its 10th anniversary[/title]
The Graduate School of Business (GSB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) last Friday (15 December) celebrated the 10th anniversary of its flagship programme Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) by hosting a cocktail reception.
During the gala event, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and Dean of Faculty of Business and GSB Director Prof. Judy Tsui made a toast with over 100 distinguished guests, alumni, faculty and students to the programme's achievements.
Prof. Poon thanked the faculty members for the endeavours they had put in making the programme successful. 'PolyU is the first tertiary institution to offer a DBA programme in Hong Kong. In witnessing its growth, we are truly grateful to the unfailing support of our advisors and collaborators who have contributed to uplifting the standard of the programme to the peak of business education in Hong Kong as well as worldwide,' Prof. Poon remarked.
Recently, PolyU's DBA programme has been awarded international accreditation by the UK-based Association of MBAs. It is among the first three DBA programmes in the world that have met the stringent criteria stipulated by the Association, which has been providing quality assurance services for MBA programmes since 1967.
Furthermore, GSB has been forging international collaboration for the programme. In May this year, it entered into agreements with the world-renowned IMD (International Institute for Management Development) in Lausanne, Switzerland and the Sauder School of Business at The University of British Columbia (UBC) in Canada. IMD is now offering a credit-bearing elective for PolyU DBA participants, while professors from UBC are co-teaching two DBA subjects.
Apart from pinning the programme on the global map of the first class business education, GSB has also established a strong presence for the DBA programme in the Chinese Mainland since 2001 by forming close partnership with top Mainland universities. The first two cohorts in the Chinese Mainland have enrolled 38 participants, most of them occupying senior management positions.
Proud of the achievements of the programme, Prof. Tsui reckoned that since its inception in 1996, the programme had sent forth a total of 145 graduates in eight batches. 'The PolyU DBA is a professional doctorate, a rigorous programme at the highest level of business education, designed to educate the CEOs and senior managers in the region to become scholar-managers. It equips them with sophiscated tools and cutting-edge skills needed to meet the daunting challenges in the increasingly competitive and global business environment. Our DBA has gained increasingly high international acclaim,' said Prof. Tsui.
To name just a few, prominent graduates of PolyU DBA include Dr Wang Jianzhou, President of China Mobile Communications Corporation; Dr Chang Xiao Bing, Chairman &amp; CEO of China Unicom Limited; Dr Kao Ruey Bin, Corporate President of Motorola Inc China; Dr Christine Lai, Executive Director, Head of Human Resources (HK &amp; North Asia) of ABN AMRO Bank; Dr Royce Yuen, Group Managing Director of Ogilvy Southern China.
The credit-based, part-time programme integrates eight doctoral subjects, a thesis and two international residentials to prepare the participants to apply the latest theories and concepts to real management decisions. The minimum duration for the completion of the programme is three years. All participants must have a recognised MBA degree or an equivalent master's degree and at least eight years of managerial or professional experience. For more details, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb/dba or call (852) 2766 7373.
