
[date]2006.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU’s Twelfth Congregation to salute 9,600 graduates[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will salute 9,600-strong postgraduates, undergraduates and sub-degree students in the forthcoming Twelfth Congregation to be held at the Hong Kong Coliseum on 1 December. The Congregation will be officiated at by Mr Donald Tsang, Chief Executive of HKSAR and Chancellor of PolyU. This year, the University will award 79 Doctor of Philosophy, 15 discipline-based Doctor's degree, 3,515 Master's degree, 3,705 Bachelor's degree, 218 postgraduate diploma and certificate and 2,107 sub-degree awards.     The University will celebrate its first batch of graduates on four Master's programmes including, Master of Science in Construction Law and Dispute Resolution, Master of Corporate Governance, Master of Design, and Master of Design in Advanced Practices. During the ceremony, the University will also confer awards to a record high of 904 Chinese mainland graduates who have successfully completed various PolyU programmes offered on the mainland. Among them, about 730 graduates will make a special trip to Hong Kong to join the ceremony.  The Twelfth Congregation will also see the conferment of Honorary Degrees to three prominent figures in recognition of their outstanding achievements and contributions. They include two renowned figures from Hong Kong and a distinguished scientist from the Chinese mainland. They are: Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong Kong SAR, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Science; Tan Sri Frank Tsao Wen-king, Founder and Group Chairman of IMC Group of Companies, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration; and Prof. Wang Min, Governor of Jilin Province and Professor of the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Engineering.   Dr York Chow Yat-ngok is Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong Kong SAR. Before he took up the current position in October 2004, he has achieved remarkable professional accomplishments while serving as President of the Hong Kong Orthopaedic Association, Hospital Chief Executive of Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Queen Mary Hospital, and Cluster Chief Executive of the Hong Kong West Cluster of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority. Over the years, Dr Chow has maintained close connection with PolyU and has offered valuable insights toward its development. Apart from serving on the University Council from 1998 to 2004, Dr Chow also served as Advisory Committee Chairman of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences from 1992 to 1999, of which he was made Honorary Professor. In recognition of Dr Chow's service and contributions to PolyU, he was named Fellow of the University in 2004/05. Dr Chow also participates actively in voluntary and community work. He was Vice Chairman of the Hong Kong Sports Development Board, Chairman of the Hong Kong Sports Association for the Physically Disabled, and is currently Vice President of the International Paralympic Committee since 1997. In 2001, he was honoured by the SAR Government with the Silver Bauhinia Star in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the development of sports for the disabled. Tan Sri Tsao Wen-king is Founder and Group Chairman of IMC Group of Companies ' a multinational group with interests in shipping, logistics, mining, engineering, offshore oil and gas, real estate and other investments. With Mr Tsao at the helm, the group currently owns and manages over 80 vessels and has more than 5,000 employees in over 20 locations across the globe, including Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland, Southeast Asia, Japan, USA, South Africa and Europe. His commitment to the maritime industry is reflected in the many offices he has held in organizations in this important field. He is a Founder and former Executive Committee Member and Chairman of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association.  He was also Chairman of the Shipping Committee of the Hong Kong Port and Maritime Board, and is currently a Member of the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Board.  A renowned shipping entrepreneur, Mr Tsao has also contributed immensely to the promotion of maritime education and the development of shipping talents. Since 1999, Mr Tsao has offered valuable advice to PolyU as Chairman of the Advisory Committee of its Department of Logistics, and in so doing has enhanced its role as the sole local provider of tertiary education in international shipping and transport logistics. Mr Tsao has deservedly received many prestigious honours over the years, including the title of 'Tan Sri' bestowed by the King of Malaysia in 1973, and 'Personality of the Year' awarded by Lloyd's Maritime Asia in 1999. In 2002, he was the first person in Asia to be awarded 'CMA Commodore' by the Connecticut Maritime Association of the US. This year Mr Tsao has been named Honorary Citizen by the Dalian Provincial Government in recognition of his support for its economy, and awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government for his contribution to Hong Kong's maritime industry.   Prof. Wang Min is Governor of Jilin Province of the Chinese mainland. He served as Vice Governor of Jiangsu Province and Secretary of Suzhou Municipal Committee before taking up the present position. Prof. Wang was former Vice President of the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), and is currently Professor of the College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering of NUAA.  With his deep knowledge and expertise in mechanical and manufacturing engineering, Prof. Wang has published over 350 papers in journals and conference proceedings. His research interests include anti-fatigue manufacturing, super-hard film and tooling, precision machining, and information application in manufacturing. He was Visiting Scholar and Croucher Foundation Research Fellow of the then Department of Manufacturing Engineering (now Industrial and Systems Engineering) of PolyU.  During his terms of office in the governments of Jiangsu and Suzhou, Prof. Wang helped steer the Jiangsu Province to great success in terms of scientific and technological advancement, education, culture and sports. Under his able leadership, Suzhou was ranked second in the Chinese mainland in terms of industrial output. In just two years since Prof. Wang became Governor of Jilin, the fixed asset investment in Jilin has grown by 120 per cent, the fastest of all provinces across the country. Prof. Wang is affiliated with national and international professional bodies. He is Senior Member of Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society, Member of Chinese Society of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Senior Member of the US Society of Manufacturing Engineers, and Editorial Board Member of Chinese Journal of Mechanical Engineering. Over the years, he has received several scientific and technological progress awards.  
