
[date]2006.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU pledges support for building HK as education hub[/title]
      At the 12th Congregation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held yesterday (1 December), University President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said PolyU, as a fully-fledged application-oriented institution, can play an important role in developing Hong Kong as an education hub of the Asia-Pacific Region.Prof. Poon emphasized that comprehensive universities and application-oriented universities complement each other and they play equally important roles in fostering innovation and serving society. He cited the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as a shining example of how application-oriented institutions can contribute to society.He said: 'Although MIT adopts a different educational philosophy, it eventually became one of world's top application-oriented universities through the staunch support of government and community. It is therefore my earnest hope that our Government will adhere to its established policy and continue to support different types of local universities on an equal footing, so that they can continue to flourish and play their respective roles to serve society.'According to Prof. Poon, PolyU subscribes to the philosophies of 'application orientation and learning for application' as well as 'all-round education'. The University strives to produce students with all-round ability and vision, so that, in addition to their professional knowledge and skills, they possess valuable qualities including independent thinking, analytical abilities, creativity, leadership, and a sense of commitment to Hong Kong, the motherland and the world.To set an example for students, Prof. Poon added, the University has always practised what it teaches. PolyU members have enthusiastically participated in the Community Chest's Walk for Millions for more than a decade and also devote much effort to holding public-spirited activities such as the 'Greening Hong Kong by PolyU Alumni' campaign and for students the 'Community Service Learning Programme'.  Prof. Poon said PolyU's dedicated efforts as an application-oriented university had paid off. For instance, PolyU civil engineering experts have consistently been star performers in their field, with the average number of research papers published by each always surpassing their peers in recent years. Such was the number of papers they published between 2003 and 2005 that they were ranked number one in the world by Thomson Scientific. Another example is PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management, which was rated fourth best in the world by a leading international journal. In a recent survey by the US magazine BusinessWeek, its School of Design ranked among the top 60 in the world and among the four most outstanding design schools in China. 'PolyU has been a driving force behind innovation and a change agent in terms of teaching, research as well as partnerships with commerce and industry,' Prof. Poon observed. The University has steadily progressed with the times and groomed nearly 250,000 graduates over the past 69 years. 'Today, as Hong Kong evolves into a knowledge-based economy driven by the financial services, trade, logistics and tourism sectors, PolyU's professional programmes in areas such as finance, accounting, business, marketing, logistics and hotel and tourism play a vital role in supporting SAR's development.' The University also pledged its support for the State's 11th Five-Year Plan. While continuing to nurture professionals with the ability to innovate, it will also play an active role in three of the nation's key projects. Firstly, it has entered into an agreement with the Lunar Exploration Centre of the China National Space Administration to initiate exchange and cooperation in training and scientific research. Secondly, as authorized by the China National Office for Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language, Hong Kong's one and only Confucius Institute has been officially established on the PolyU campus to further promote Chinese language and culture in Hong Kong. Thirdly, PolyU has signed an agreement with the Science and Education Department of the Chinese Olympic Committee whereby it will send health care and sports sciences experts to prepare national athletes for the 2008 Olympic Games. The Department has also designated PolyU as the Committee's technology partner in preparation for the 2008 Olympics.At the same time, PolyU has played a significant role in the process of economic integration between Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta and southern China generally. The University has already set up five teaching outposts in Hangzhou, Xi'an, Zhuhai, Shenzhen and Wuhan. To date, 17 PolyU programmes at bachelor's level or above have been accredited by the State Ministry of Education, the largest number of accredited programmes offered by Hong Kong and overseas universities on the mainland.Prof. Poon also encouraged local institutions to further extend their educational provision across the border. 'Building on Hong Kong's well-established legal, financial, transport and communications systems, the SAR's institutions can develop talent for the Pearl River Delta and across southern China, while advancing research and boosting technology transfer. With Hong Kong's active role as an education hub, we can contribute significantly to the rapid integration between Hong Kong and the mainland,' he said.
