
[date]2006.12.11[/date]
[title]PolyU and UN WTO co-host China Tourism Forum[/title]
Jointly organized by the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the UN World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), the Third China Tourism Forum will be held on the university campus from 15 to 16 December 2006.
The Co-Chairs of this Forum are Professor Kaye Chon, Director of SHTM and Mr. XU Jing, Regional Representative of the UNWTO Asia Pacific Office. The Forum aims to provide an opportunity for tourism policy makers, marketing organizations, researchers, academics and industry practitioners to identify issues relating to tourism and economic development in China, and also to discuss possible solutions to the challenges arising from tourism development in China.
Conference participants will discuss various important topics related to China tourism during the two-day Forum. The issues to be explored include the latest trend of China tourism; how to prepare for the exponential growth of outbound Chinese tourism; the impact of tourism on the Pearl River Delta Region; planning of new hotel development in China; and the room for community-based tourism in the new China.
The Forum will include two keynote presentations and two panel discussions. It will feature keynote speakers from the industry, education institutions and international organizations. It is expected to facilitate an open dialogue between researchers and practitioners on emerging issues related to China's tourism.
The list of confirmed speakers include eminent academics such as Dr. Taleb Rifai, Deputy Secretary-General, UNWTO; Professor Wang Zhong-ming, Executive Dean, School of Management, Zhejiang University; Professor Zhang Guang-rui, Tourism Research Centre, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Professor Tian Li, Dean, Business and Tourism Administration School, Yunnan University; and Professor Kaye Chon, Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Many experienced industry practitioners will also share their insights at the Forum. They include Mr. Feng Hou, CEO, Jinling Hotels and Resorts; Dr. Tim Gao, CEO, TEDA Hotels Management Ltd.; Mr. John Girard, General Manager &amp; Area Director, Marco Polo HK Hotel and Gateway Hotel; Mr. Symon Bridle, Chief Operating Officer, Shangri-la Hotels and Resorts; Mr. Jeremy Xu, General Manager, CTS HK Metropark Hotels Management Co. Ltd.; and Ms Jacqueline Tong, General Manager, Strategic Planning &amp; Marketing Communications, Hong Kong Tourism Board.
The Forum should be of great interest to those who are interested in tourism policy, research and education issues related to the development of tourism in China including tourism policy makers and government officials, academics, industry personnel, employers, graduate students, and others with an interest in the tourism field.
SHTM has a long-standing affiliation with UNWTO, a specialized agency of the United Nations and a leading international organization in the field of tourism. It has been designated as Asia's only university among the 16 - member WTO Education and Training Network since 1999.
For more details about the Forum, please visit the official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/conference/ctf2006 or contact Ms Nicole Shum of SHTM at telephone: 2766 4334 or through email: hmnicole@polyu.edu.hk.
