
[date]2006.11.02[/date]
[title]PolyU to work with INVISTA to commercialize textile innovations[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has entered into collaboration with INVISTA, which is one of the world's largest integrated fibers and polymers businesses with a global presence, to commercialize its many state-of-the-art textile innovations in the world market.
At a special ceremony held yesterday (2 November) on the university campus, the collaborative agreement was signed by Mr William Ghitis, President of INVISTA Apparel; and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnerships Development).
Dr Lui said PolyU is honoured and privileged to collaborate with this industry giant. 'This collaboration will give us a distinct advantage to leverage upon INVISTA's demonstrated success in commercializing innovations and its global branding, marketing, and sales expertise and resources,' he said.
Mr Ghitis said INVISTA is committed to increasing the rate at which it brings innovation to the apparel marketplace. 'We are very excited to establish this industrial liaison programme with PolyU and hope to bring to the market the many innovative textile developments and discoveries from the University.'
Headquartered in the United States, INVISTA is the creator of many leading consumer brands such as LYCRA® and COOLMAX®. Built on a heritage of innovation, INVISTA owns more than 700 unique pending or granted US patents. This landmark agreement has paved the way for an industrial liaison programme, through which INVISTA will seek to commercialize successful technical advancement and inventions of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC).The company will be working closely with PolyU to commercialize textile technologies based on ITC's innovative and practical textile developments and discoveries. It will also support selected research development programmes of the University.
In Hong Kong, PolyU is the sole provider of tertiary education in textiles and clothing. Not only has the Institution nurtured many professional talents, but also achieved many research breakthroughs that might revolutionize the industry. To name but a few, these include the world's first 'sweating' manikin Walter for the testing of functional clothing, self-cleaning nano-fabrics as reported in Nature (June 2004 issue), and the world's first cellulose-based shape memory fabrics which can sense the temperature of human skin.
In 2004, the HKSAR Government's The Innovation and Technology Commission further designated PolyU as the focus area for establishing the first Research and Development Centre for Textile and Clothing in Hong Kong. Set up to facilitate research and development on textile-and-clothing-related technologies, the Centre is dedicated to promoting Hong Kong as a world-class fashion and textiles hub.
INVISTA is an integrated fibers and polymers business with a global presence. It operates five major businesses: Apparel; Interiors; Intermediates; Performance Fibers; and Polymer and Resins. INVISTA delivers exceptional value for its customers through market insights and technology innovations, along with a powerful portfolio of some of the most recognized global brands and trademarks in their respective industries including: ADI-PURE®, ANTRON®, AVORA® FR, INVISTA® C12, COMFOREL®, COOLMAX®, CORDURA®, CORFREE®, DACRON®, INVISTA® DBE, DYTEK®, ESP®, FORCEâ„¢, INVISTA® NYCO, LYCRA®, POLARGUARD®, POLYSHIELD®, SOLARMAX®, STAINMASTER®, SUPPLEX®, SUPRIVAâ„¢, TACTEL®, TACTESSE®, TERATE®, TERATHANE® and THERMOLITE®. More information on INVISTA can be found at www.INVISTA.com.
