
[date]2006.11.01[/date]
[title]PolyU to confer three honorary doctorates at Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon three prominent figures in recognition of their outstanding achievements and contributions at its 12th Congregation to be held on 1 December. This year's honorees include two renowned figures from Hong Kong and a distinguished scientist from the Chinese mainland. They are: Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong Kong SAR, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Science; Tan Sri Frank Tsao Wen-king, Founder and Group Chairman of IMC Group of Companies, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration; and Prof. Wang Min, Governor of Jilin Province and Professor of the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, who will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Engineering. The Congregation will be officiated at by Mr Donald Tsang, Chief Executive of HKSAR and Chancellor of PolyU.     Dr York Chow Yat-ngok is Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the Hong Kong SAR. Before he took up the current position in October 2004, he has achieved remarkable professional accomplishments while serving as President of the Hong Kong Orthopaedic Association, Hospital Chief Executive of Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Queen Mary Hospital, and Cluster Chief Executive of the Hong Kong West Cluster of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority.  Over the years, Dr Chow has maintained close connection with PolyU and has offered valuable insights toward its development. Apart from serving on the University Council from 1998 to 2004, he also served as Advisory Committee Chairman of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) from 1992 to 1999. In recognition of Dr Chow's service and contributions, he was made Honorary Professor of RS, and in 2004, he was named Fellow of the University.  In addition, Dr Chow actively participates in voluntary and community work. He has been elected Vice President of the International Paralympic Committee since 1997. In recognition of his significant contribution to the development of sport for the disabled, he was honoured with the Silver Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government in 2001. Tan Sri Tsao Wen-king is Founder and Group Chairman of IMC Group of Companies. He established the International Maritime Carriers Ltd (IMC) in 1966 and the business  covers not only shipping and related areas such as shipbuilding, insurance and storage, but also real estate and investment. The Hong Kong-based company has also been expanded to different parts of the world, with offices in Southeast Asia, Japan, the UK, the US and Europe. Mr Tsao is Member of the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Board, and the important positions he held included Chairman of Hong Kong Shipowners Association and Chairman of the Shipping Committee of Hong Kong Port and Maritime Board.  A renowned shipping entrepreneur, Mr Tsao has made immense contributions both to the development of the maritime industry and promotion of maritime education and research. Since 1999, Mr Tsao has offered valuable advice to PolyU as Chairman of the Advisory Committee of its Department of Logistics, which is the sole local provider of tertiary education in international shipping and transport logistics.  Mr Tsao's distinguished achievements and important contributions to the maritime industry have won him prestigious honours over the years, including the title of "Tan Sri" given by the King of Malaysia in 1973; and "Personality of the Year" Award by Lloyds Maritime Asia in 1999. In 2002, he was the first person in Asia awarded "CMA Commodore" by the Connecticut Maritime Association of the US. This year, Mr Tsao was named Honorary Citizen by the Dalian Provincial Government in recognition of his support to its economy, and awarded Silver Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government for his contributions to Hong Kong's maritime industry.   Prof. Wang Min is Governor of Jilin Province of the Chinese mainland. He served as Vice Governor of Jiangsu Province and Secretary of Suzhou Municipal Committee before taking up the present position. Prof. Wang was former Vice President of the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), and is currently Professor of the College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering of NUAA.  With his deep knowledge and expertise in mechanical and manufacturing engineering, Prof. Wang has published over a hundred journal papers and conference proceedings. His research interests include anti-fatigue manufacturing, super-hard film and tooling, precision machining, and information application in manufacturing. He was Visiting Scholar and Croucher Foundation Research Fellow of the then Department of Manufacturing Engineering (now Industrial and Systems Engineering) of PolyU.  Prof. Wang is affiliated with national and international professional bodies. He is Senior Member of Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society, Member of Chinese Society of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Senior Member of the US Society of Manufacturing Engineers, and Editorial Board Member of Chinese Journal of Mechanical Engineering. Over the years, he has received several scientific and technological progress awards.    
