
[date]2007.01.29[/date]
[title]PolyU offers more study opportunities for sub-degree graduates[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will launch a UGC (University Grants Committee)-funded Bachelor of Science (Honours) Programme in Investment Science for sub-degree graduates in the 2007/2008 academic year.
This two-year full-time programme is jointly offered by PolyU's Department of Applied Mathematics (AMA) and its School of Accounting and Finance (AF). It aims to groom graduates with both mathematics and finance knowledge. Initially, PolyU will provide an intake quota of 29 places for this new programme.
In announcing details of the new programme, Dr Chan Cheong-ki, Head of AMA, said there is an increasing need for the industry to employ university graduates with both mathematical and statistical skills, according to a recent survey conducted by the Vocational Training Council's Banking and Finance Industry Training Board.
His view is echoed by Dr Wilson Tong, Associate Head of AF, who said: 'The need is due to the current state of advanced technology in the banking and finance industry, together with the rapid expansion in the trading of derivative products.'
Programme Leader Dr Wong Heung said the new course is designed with a view to producing graduates with strong mathematical and statistical skills and a thorough understanding of their applications in the world of modern investment and finance, preparing them for various careers in the investment and financial services industries.
During their studies, students will be required to complete 66 credits, including a mandatory English subject, 19 core subjects and two elective subjects. While AMA will be responsible for teaching 16 core and four elective subjects, AF will teach the remaining three core and two elective subjects.
This non-Jupas programme is open to graduates of Higher Diploma and Associate Degree programmes. It is inviting application from now until 17 February 2007. For further enquiries and submitting online application, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/study.
