
[date]2006.11.20[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni to take part in green mission[/title]
Around 1,000 alumni of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and their friends and family members will be contributing to a greener Hong Kong by planting more than 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Tai Po Waterfront Park on 26 November (Sunday). 
Jointly organized by PolyU, the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD), this annual event will be kicked off this year by Mr Ambrose Lee Siu-kwong, Secretary for Security; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Mr Eddy Yau Kwok-yin, Assistant Director (Leisure Services), Leisure and Cultural Services Department; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Dr Ng Tat-lun, FHKPUAA President; and Dr Lam Tai-fai and Mr Johnny Fan, FHKPUAA Vice Presidents. 
Miss Tracy Ip Chui-chui, PolyU alumnus and Miss Hong Kong 2005, will join the event to show her support to her alma mater. Furthermore, famous folk song singer Mr Albert Au, accompanied by children dancers, will be singing to add colour to the fun-filled event. Game booths and other programmes such as African drum will be staged by PolyU alumni associations and other supporting organizations. 
This tree-planting activity aims at uniting PolyU alumni's efforts toward the betterment of Hong Kong's environment and strengthening a sense of fellowship among graduates of PolyU, as well as that among its predecessors, namely the Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School.
Each participant is encouraged to donate at least HK$120 to join the green mission. The net proceeds generated from the event will be equally divided and donated to The Community Chest of Hong Kong and to PolyU to support its alumni development.  
This year, more than 10 local and overseas alumni bodies of PolyU have rendered their support to this meaningful event by contributing cash and in-kind sponsorships. Furthermore, Texment Fashions Limited and Cafe de Coral Group have sponsored respectively windbreakers and snacks and drinks for the participants. 
This is the third time that PolyU organizes this greening activity. The debut of the event, launched in November 2004, has seized Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the 'Alumni Relations Programmes' category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first local institution bestowed with such honour.
For details of the greening activity, please visit the event website at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/alumni/What'sNew/Greening/2006/index.htm or contact PolyU Alumni Affairs and Development Office at 2766-5418 / 2766-5123 or via e-mail alumni@polyu.edu.hk.
   
Press Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the opening ceremony of the event. Details are as follows: 
Date: 26 November 2006 (Sunday)Time: 10.00 a.m.Venue:  Tai Po Waterfront Park, NT [Amphitheatre](A map showing the Press Reception Counter is enclosed)
