
[date]2007.01.18[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes Asia’s first Care Apparel Centre[/title]
The opening of Asia's first Care Apparel Centre on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (18 January) was hailed as a major milestone in promoting special clothing and related accessories for the disabled and the elderly.
The Centre is named after Danish merchant Mr Troels H Povlsen, Founder of Bestseller and Partner of Bestseller United China Limited, in recognition of a substantial donation of $3.3 million from the company's management to supporting this worthy cause.
Speaking at the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said care apparel is intended for those who have difficulty in dressing as well as those with special clothing needs. The concept is relatively new to our community and this Centre is thus established with a unique mission of serving the less privileged in our community.
 'We believe the less privileged should not be robbed of their dignity in dressing properly, and these special clothing allow more independence and enable the wearers to take care of their personal needs as much as possible. Against the backdrop of an ageing population, the availability of care apparel will also enhance the well-being of the elderly in the long run,' said. Prof. Poon.
In expediting the concept of care apparel, PolyU experts will take into consideration both psychological and physical comfort of wearers, so that the outfit will meet functional and appearance requirement. This will not only enhance the image of wearers, but also make life much easier for them.
The new Centre is conveniently located on the podium of our University, occupying some 600 square feet.  Despite its size, it is backed up by a strong team of multi-disciplinary experts including special clothing designers, rehabilitation experts, healthcare professionals as well as personnel from the commercial sectors.
The Centre will actively promote the concept of care apparel through education and research. It will also provide specialist consultation and support services for those in need, and organize related social services activities in the near future.
Moreover, the Centre will be operated under the aegis of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, which will provide a wide range of facility supports such as laboratories, workshops, resource centre, design studio and computer laboratories whenever professional training and research and development works are needed.
