
[date]2007.03.29[/date]
[title]HKCC put students first in designing new campuses and new programmes[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) yesterday (28 March) introduced details about the development plans of its new campuses, restructuring of programme streams and launch of a new admission scheme for Pre-AD students and graduates. In the 2007/08 academic year, HKCC will move into the Hung Hom Bay campus. The new campus is situated right next to the PolyU Student Hostels and is only eight minutes' walk from the Hung Hom KCR Station. Students will be able to enjoy the state-of-the-art facilities and services provided by the new campus and continue to use PolyU facilities such as library, sports facilities and campus clinic (including dental service) as well. The Hung Hom Bay campus has 54 classrooms, two 'Tomorrow Classrooms' equipped with round-the-room audio-visual projection walls, nine lecture theatres, 23 specialist teaching rooms and a computer centre which can accommodate 270 students. It also features a library with a built-in e-resources centre. Targeted to be completed in 2008, the West Kowloon campus also features similar facilities, plus hotel simulation classrooms for students' practical training and U-shape classrooms tailor-made for interactive class discussion.In the new school year, HKCC will restructure its comprehensive associate degree education to cover arts, sciences, social sciences, business as well as specialized subjects (see attachment for details). Students can select different subject areas according to their interests and ability. Within the Applied Social Sciences stream, three new programmes including Psychology, Social Welfare, and Sociology and Culture will be introduced; and a new programme on Language and Culture is added into the Humanities and Communication stream. This brings the total number of offered programmes to 26. In addition, four new specialties will be added in the Associate of Science subject domain. They are Applied Biology and Chemistry, Applied Physics, Environmental Science, as well as Information and Management. According to HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung, 'Through this programmes revamp and enhancement exercise, we introduce different programme streams for students to choose flexibly. Students can try out different subjects in the first year of study to facilitate a better understanding of their own interests and ability before selecting the specialized subject area. HKCC will not only offer counseling on programme specialization, but also allow students to change their specialization during the course of studies. 'Also, the newly launched Psychology, Social Welfare, and Sociology and Culture programmes are all theory-practice integrated applied social sciences subject areas, tailor-made for students' further studies and employment purposes. In addition, the new Language and Culture programme is introduced to give students the opportunity to learn the history and culture of South-East Asia as well as languages like Japanese and Putonghua.'This year, HKCC also introduced a new admission scheme especially for Pre-AD students and graduates. Expected graduates or graduates of Pre-AD programmes who have obtained a minimum Grade Point Average (GPA) of 2.00 and are active in extra-curricular activities/community services are eligible to apply. Applicants who have good performance during interviews will be given conditional offer. They will be admitted provided they obtain an averaged GPA of 2.5 or above. Also, the ‘Self Recommendation for Admission Scheme' and ‘Principal's Recommendation for Admission Scheme' for Form Seven students will be opened for applications. These three special admission schemes are now inviting applications until 30 May 2007 and results will be announced in mid-June. Application details can be found via https://www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc
