
[date]2007.06.18[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Health and Social Sciences holds Graduation Ceremony[/title]
Faculties and schools of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are organising their own graduation ceremonies in addition to joining the University Congregation this year, with a view to give more recognition to individual graduates and enhance their sense of belongings.
Yesterday (18 June) the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of PolyU staged its graduation ceremony at the Jockey Club Auditorium on campus, sending forth some 600 graduates in the disciplines of biomedical science, medical laboratory science, health technology, nursing, optometry, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and radiography. The formal conferment of academic awards will be made at the University Congregation to be held on 1 December at the Hong Kong Coliseum.
Presided over by Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of FHSS, the ceremony was conducted in two sessions. The graduation ceremony was also graced by the presence of Guest of Honour Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung, Executive Councillor.
During the ceremony's morning session, FHSS also conferred the title of Honorary Fellow upon famous artist songbird Miss Miriam Yeung in recognition of her accomplishments and contribution to the community. Miss Yeung, a registered nurse who has worked at Princess Margaret Hospital, has also been appointed as a Faculty Ambassador to assist the Faculty in promoting health messages to the community.
This year FHSS is also celebrating its 30th Anniversary. Over the years, FHSS has made a name for its cutting-edge researches internationally. At the 35th International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products held in April in Geneva, Prof. Thomas Wong and his team won a Gold Medal with Jury's Congratulations for inventing the 'Non-Invasive Blood Glucose Meter'.
As a collaborative partner for the 2008 Olympic Games, FHSS is also actively engaged in supporting the national teams in preparation for the Olympics Games.
