
[date]2007.04.30[/date]
[title]World-class experts to speak at the international forum on fashion and textiles[/title]
Organised by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), an international forum entitled 'Hong Kong Fashion Hub: From Dream to Reality' will take place from 2 to 3 May on campus.
The two-day forum, hosted by PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), is one of the major events in celebration of its 50th Anniversary. The forum aims to provide to participants an innovative, informative and educative message on the latest development in the fashion and textiles industries. Over 20 renowned speakers from Taipei, Japan, Korea, USA, Canada and Hong Kong will share with fashion and textiles industrialists and practitioners the new technologies, new ideas and experiences in the fields.
Dr Kenneth Fang, Chairman of Advisory Committee on Textile and Clothing Industries, PolyU, said, 'It is important that ITC visualized the right opportunity to organize this forum not only to provide information of the latest developments in the fashion and textile sector, but also to help foster the link with the industrialists and affiliated organizations in the industries.'
Themes of the forum cover how technological developments enhance competition in the industries; development trend in fashion and textiles research; internationalization of fashion; and value adding in the apparel supply chain. The forum will feature presentations by world-class experts on related-topics on design and innovation in fashion and textiles, state-of-the-art technologies and developments, techniques and strategies in fashion marketing, merchandising and retailing, to name just a few.
Apart from presentations and panel discussions to be held at the forum, a showcase named 'Textile and Clothing ' A Future Perspective' will also be staged concurrently with the forum until 4 May at the Fashion and Textiles Resource Centre on PolyU campus, where major research highlights of the works of ITC's staff and students will be displayed.
The forum is organised with the support of many organisations including The Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel, Clothing Industry Training Authority, Hong Kong Institution of Textile and Apparel, The Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association of PolyU, Textile Council of Hong Kong Ltd, The Federation of Hong Kong Garment Manufacturers, The Hong Kong Cotton Spinners Association, The Hong Kong Woollen &amp; Synthetic Knitting Manufacturers Association Ltd, Hong Kong Apparel Society Ltd, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association, The Textile Institute Association (Hong Kong) Ltd and TUV Rheinland Hong Kong Ltd.
More details of the forum are available athttp://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/specialevents/events_about.html. For enquiries and registration, please call 2766-6463.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the opening ceremony of the forum. Details are as follows:
Date : 2 May 2007, WednesdayTime : 9:00amVenue : Chiang Chen Studio Theatre, PolyU Officiating Guest : Dr Kenneth Fang, GBS, JP, Chairman of Advisory Committee on Textile and Clothing Industries, PolyUProf. Tao Xiao-ming, Chair Professor and Head, Institute of Textiles and Clothing, PolyU
