
[date]2007.06.05[/date]
[title]HKCC scholarships help broaden students&amp;#39; global outlook[/title]
  PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) presented Summer Scholarships totaling over $850,000 to 220 students yesterday (5 June). These scholarships provided opportunities for students to broaden their horizon through internship and job placements, study and cultural exchange tours as well as international summer schools. This summer, HKCC scholarship awardees will have the opportunities to expand their global perspectives in different parts of the world, including Brisbane in Australia; Vancouver in Canada; Malaysia; Singapore; London in the UK; and fourteen cities or provinces in Mainland China including Beihai, Beijing, Changzhou, Chengdu, Dalian, Guangzhou, Menggu, Shenyang, Shenzhen, Tibet, Wuhan, Xian, Yunnan and Zhongshan. Students will also have the chance to appreciate different cultures, heritage and lifestyles overseas.  Among the many scholarship schemes offered by HKCC is the Hotel Summer Internship in Mainland China. This scheme provides credit-based summer placements or internships in prestigious hotels and catering organizations in the Mainland China. Students who take part in this scheme not only gain hands-on industrial experience in their areas of study, but also accumulate credits and practicum hours contributing to future studies and job search. Other internship opportunities are also offered in the telecommunication, accounting, human resources, retail, education and insurance sectors. HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung said, 'In the 2007/08 academic year, we have earmarked $3 million for various scholarships, such as those for outstanding academic/community service performance, international summer schools and mainland placement programmes. A rich array of over 200 student development activities, providing more than 10,000 places, is also in the pipeline. These activities provide excellent opportunities for students to develop their talents and build up their self-confidence.'Besides making every effort to inspire students' potentials, HKCC will also expand its programme schemes to maximize the flexibility of students in choosing their areas of specialization. Commencing this September, the College's programmes will be grouped under Applied Social Sciences, Business, Humanities and Communication, Science and Technology and Specialized Subjects, bringing the total number of programmes offered to 26.In order to provide a vigorous learning environment for students, HKCC will move in to its new Hung Hom Bay campus starting September 2007. By then, students will be able to enjoy the state-of-the-art facilities and comprehensive services provided in the new campus. Another HKCC new campus in West Kowloon is under construction and will be completed in mid-2008.
