
[date]2007.07.16[/date]
[title]Nobel Laureate in Economics promotes social development at PolyU[/title]
More than 600 participants from 40 countries and territories have been drawn to The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus this week for the 15th Symposium of The International Consortium for Social Development from 16 to 20 July. A major highlight of the five-day Symposium is the keynote presentation given by Prof. Amartya Sen, Nobel Laureate in Economics 1998, entitled 'Unity and Discord in Social Development'.
Themed 'Seeking Harmony and Promoting Social Development in a World of Conflict', the Symposium is the first joint-effort of PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences and the International Consortium for Social Development. Officiating at its opening ceremony held yesterday (16 July) were Mr Stephen Fisher, Director of Social Welfare of the HKSAR Government and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong.
With the objective of exploring the issues, challenges and solutions to social development in the context of globalization, the Symposium has brought together internationally renowned scholars, professionals, international agency representatives and government officials from all over the world to exchange professional views and experience on advancing social development. This year's Symposium not only provides an excellent platform for participants to analyze the impact of the global economy and to seek harmony in the world of conflict through social development initiatives, but also sheds light on the social and economic development on the Chinese mainland.
Prof. Sen is Lamont University Professor and Professor of Economics and Philosophy at Harvard University, and was until recently the Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. He has served as President of the Econometric Society, the Indian Economic Association, the American Economic Association, the International Economic Association, and Honorary advisor of OXFAM. He was also Professor of Economics at the London School of Economics and at Delhi University, and Drummond Professor of Political Economy at Oxford University and Fellow of All Souls College, before he became Lamont University Professor at Harvard University in 1988. In the same year, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics for his work in welfare economics.
Prof. Sen's books have been translated into more than 30 languages and his research has ranged over a number of fields in economics, philosophy and decision theory. He has received honorary doctorates from major universities in North America, Europe, Asia and Africa, and his contribution to development economics has won him numerous awards.
Other prominent speakers of the Symposium include Mr Khalid Malik, United Nations Resident Coordinator and United Nations Development Programme Resident Representative, China; Minister Mi Yongsheng, General Director, Department of Social Assistance, Ministry of Civil Affairs; Prof. Wang Sibin, Professor of Peking University and President of the China Association of Social Work Education. They will speak on the challenges confronting social policy and social development in contemporary China. Besides, Mr Abul Khayer, Deputy General Manager and Chief of Coordination and Operation Department of Grameen Bank, Bangladesh, will speak on the use of micro-credit banking to alleviate poverty.
Apart from presentations and plenary sessions on a variety of social development related topics, including capacity building initiatives, social capital strategies, social security models in Asia, aging, domestic violence, gender, health care and services, to name just a few, tours to major cities in the mainland have also been arranged before and after the Symposium to enlighten participants on the human services and social development on the mainland.
More details of the Symposium are available at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/~apss/ICSD/home.htm. For enquiries, please call 2766 4859.
