
[date]2007.05.25[/date]
[title]PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences celebrates 30th anniversary[/title]
In celebrating its 30th Anniversary, the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has garnered more momentum to forge ahead on different fronts.
FHSS has not only teamed up with the Hospital Authority and non-governmental organizations in launching new initiatives for the community, but also established stronger ties with renowned institutions on the Chinese mainland and overseas.
Witnessed by Faculty Dean Prof. Thomas Wong, Prof. Samantha Pang, Head of PolyU's School of Nursing and Prof. Chetwyn Chan, Head of the Department of Rehabilitation Services, have altogether signed three agreements with key partners at a gala dinner held on 23 May (Wednesday). The function was joined by more than 600 guests, with Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food; and Ms Sandra Lee, Permanent Secretary (Health and Welfare) being the Guests-of-Honour. 
The blanket of agreements covered a Memorandum of Understanding between FHSS and the Hospital Authority Kowloon West Cluster; a collaborative agreement between the School of Nursing and its counterpart of the University of Hyogo in Japan; and a pact between the Rehabilitation Sciences and the Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The Faculty also received a $2 million donation cheque from Mrs Angel Lau, Chairman and CEO of Squina International Group Limited and Chairman of Po Leung Kuk, in support of its further advancement.
Famous artist and singer Miss Miriam Yeung, who was herself as a nurse at Princess Margaret Hospital, has also agreed to serve as Faculty Ambassador to assist PolyU in promoting health messages to the community. A Certificate of Appointment was presented to her by Mr Alexander Tzang, Acting President of PolyU. FHSS will also confer Honorary Faculty Fellowship upon Miss Yeung at a special ceremony next month.
In addition, PolyU will be working with Po Leung Kuk in launching the 'Elderly Mini-U' programme to give a taste of university life for the elderly.
FHSS has made a name for its cutting-edge researches internationally. At the 35th International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products of Geneva held in April, Prof. Wong and his team won a Gold Medal with Jury's Congratulations for inventing the 'Non-Invasive Blood Glucoses Meter'.
As a collaborative research partner for the 2008 Olympic Games, FHSS is also actively engaged in supporting the Beijing Olympics. Under an agreement with the Science and Education Department of the Chinese Olympic Committee, FHSS are sending forth inter-disciplinary experts to help Chinese athletes better prepare for the Games.
