
[date]2007.09.03[/date]
[title]PolyU-affiliated HKCC and SPEED welcome new students[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE) held a series of welcoming ceremonies for nearly 3,100 new full-time associate degree and top-up degree students of its Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) and School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) yesterday (3 September). Officiating at the ceremonies were PolyU Acting President Mr Alexander Tzang, CPCE Dean Prof. Peter Yuen, CPCE Associate Dean Dr Peter Walters, HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung and SPEED Acting Director Dr Jack Lo.      
At the associate degree level, HKCC has admitted more than 2,700 students, including 20 mainland students, out of over 5,000 applications received this year. The students will be studying for the 26 associate degree programmes offered by HKCC this year. These programmes are grouped under four main schemes, namely, Applied Social Sciences, Business, Humanities and Communication, and Science and Technology, in addition to specialized subject programmes. Coupled with HKCC's comprehensive curriculum is the flexibility provided to students in choosing their subject specialization by the second year of study.
A wide range of programmes are offered by HKCC, including Arts, Accounting and Finance, Applied Social Sciences, Beauty and Health Therapy, Bilingual Communication, Business, Business Management, China Business, Design, Engineering, English for Business Communication, Health Studies, Hospitality Management, Human Resources Management, Information Systems and Knowledge Management, Information Technology, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Marketing, Science, Social Policy and Administration, Statistics and Computing for Business, and Tourism and Recreation Management. This September, four new programmes are also introduced, including Psychology, Social Welfare, Sociology and Culture, and Language and Culture. 
Starting this academic year, HKCC students will attend classes in the new Hung Hom Bay Campus, which is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for effective teaching and learning purposes. In addition, HKCC has set aside $3 million this year for various scholarships and a rich array of over 300 student development activities.
SPEED, on the other hand, has admitted nearly 400 students this year to study in its six full-time top-up degree programmes, which are popular among associate degree and higher diploma graduates. The programmes currently offered are Bachelor of Arts in Applied and Media Arts, Business (Finance), Business (International Business), Housing Management, Marketing and Public Relations as well as Travel Industry Management. 
To cater for the study needs of students, the above-mentioned top-up degree programmes (except Housing Management) are also offered in part-time mode, together with other part-time programmes including Bachelor of Arts in Policing and Public Order, Executive Diploma in Management (Jewelry), and Diploma in Leadership and Management, etc.  In addition, to provide convenience to students who prefer to study on overseas programmes in Hong Kong, SPEED partners with five renowned universities and institutions to offer overseas academic award programmes. A wide array of specialisms are covered, including accounting, business, finance, human resources management, law, logistics and supply chain management, business administration as well as strategy and procurement management. 
In this academic year, SPEED offers a total of 22 award-bearing programmes leading to awards of PolyU SPEED or overseas universities. These full-time and part-time programmes range from sub-degree, diploma, bachelor, executive diploma to master levels with a student enrolment of over 3,000. As a pioneer of lifelong learning, the School also offers credit-bearing courses for learners to study at their own pace and accumulate lifetime-valid credits for academic awards through its Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM).
As an advocate of lifelong learning, SPEED put strong effort in continuously enhancing its programmes according to learners' needs in this changing economy. SPEED's determination is highlighted in the design of its new emblem, which adopted a mathematical symbol of 'final answer'. This emphasizes that the School points students to the right direction and ultimate solution in continuing education to advance their knowledge and enhance their professional competence.
