
[date]2007.05.08[/date]
[title]PolyU staged first forum on China hotel and tourism development in New York[/title]
In response to the fast expanding opportunities in the hotel and tourism market in China, the School of Hotel and Tourism Management of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Hotel Online successfully hosted the first-ever "Seminar on China Hotel and Tourism Development" in New York on 27 April.
Staged at Le Parker Meridien hotel in New York City, the Seminar provided an excellent opportunity for business leaders, executives and academics to keep abreast of emerging trends and new developments in China's hotel and tourism market, and to network with each other.
Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director of PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management, said: "It has never been more important for US-based developers and investors to learn about how best to capitalise on this upsurge in the market and be part of China's rush to become the No. 1 international tourist destination."
The Seminar featured talks on hot topics by renowned China experts as follows:• "Overview of Hotel and Tourism Industry in China — Current Issues and Challenges" —Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, PolyU; • "The Development Trends in China's Hotel and Tourism Industry" —Dr Tim Gao, CEO of TEDA Hotels Management Company Ltd, Beijing;• "Hotel Ownership and Investment in China" —Mr Frank Hou, President, Jinling Hotels Management Co., Ltd;• "The Hotel Industry Performance, Profitability and Outlook" —Mr Leo Yen, Director, Horwath HTL Asia Pacific;• "China's Outbound Market — from the Government's Perspective" —Mr Tony Tse, Programme Director (Industry Partnerships), School of Hotel and Tourism Management, PolyU.
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management was ranked fourth among the world's top hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Research in August 2005. With more than 40 academic staff drawn from 17 countries, it is also the only training centre in Asia recognized by the Education and Training Network of the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). The School is widely recognised as the leading player in hotel and tourism education in Asia. (Visit: www.polyu.edu.hk for more details) Hotel Online is a daily online bulletin for the hospitality industry worldwide, with operations based in the US. (Visit: www.hotel-online.com for more details)
China has become the fourth most visited destinations of the world, receiving 124 million inbound travellers in 2006, according to statistics released by China National Tourism Administration (CNTA). It is also forecast by UNWTO that China will become the largest tourism receiving country and the fourth largest source of outbound travel in the world with 100 million outbound travellers by 2020.
