
[date]2007.09.10[/date]
[title]PolyU Library acknowledges donation of Qianlong Great Buddhist Canon[/title]
At a donation ceremony held yesterday (10 September) at the The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Pao Yue-kong Library, the University Librarian Mr Steve O'Connor accepted on behalf of PolyU the generous donations of a full set of 120 volumes of Qianlong Great Buddhist Canon and Taiwanese painter Mr Jiang Yi-za's masterpiece The Painting of Scenes of the Hells by the Pure Land Learning College Association and the Hong Kong Buddhist Education Foundation. 
Dr Zhong Mao-sen, Vice President of Pure Land Learning College Association, and Dr Edward Woo, representing the two donor organizations together, presented the books and the painting to Mr O'Connor. Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Chairperson, Culture Promotion Committee, PolyU and Head of Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, said in her welcoming remarks that given the cultural values of the Canon and the Chinese painting, the donations would certainly enrich the cultural ambience of the University.
Great Buddhist Canon is a complete collection of Buddhist scriptures. The publication of the Qianlong Great Buddhist Canon was a great endeavour involving more than 130 monks and ministers, initiated by Emperor Yongzheng of the Qing Dynasty in 1733 and completed in 1738 when Emperor Qianlong succeeded the throne. The volumes put together all the Buddhist classic writings translated from Sanskrit, as well as the study notes of scholars and monks, throughout the 17 century-long history of Buddhism in China. They are regarded as an important reference for studying Buddhism, philosophy, history, literature, fine arts and translation. 
Mr Jiang completed The Painting of Scenes of the Hells in 2003. The Chinese painting, measuring 62.5 centimeters by height and 60 meters by length, depicts various kinds of punishments in the hell on human beings for their sins. The striking scenes are supposed to urge people to step away from evil for good. 
The Pure Land Learning College Association was founded by the Ven. Master Chin Kung with a mission to promote Buddhism. The Master also guides the Hong Kong Buddhist Education Foundation which strives to incorporate the traditional Chinese culture into the Buddhist teaching. The two organizations have recently published 6,500 sets of Qianlong Great Buddhist Canon for donating to libraries, museums, tertiary institutions and religious organizations around the globe.
Mr O'Connor thanked the Pure Land Learning College Association and the Hong Kong Buddhist Education Foundation for their generous donations, which not only will augment the collection of the Pao Yue-kong Library for the benefit of its users, but also will contribute to the whole person development of the PolyU students.
