
[date]2007.04.17[/date]
[title]PolyU wins industry support to launch sportswear design subject[/title]
Backed by ardent support from the sportswear industry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) will introduce the territory's first sportswear design subject to meet the rising demand for professional manpower brought about by the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008.
Mr Roy Li Kwok-tung, Co-Founder and Chairman of Win Hanverky Holdings Limited yesterday (17 April) also presented a donation cheque of HK$628,000 to the University in support of this new initiative.
Speaking at the press briefing, Mr Li said: 'Sportswear is not for merely athletes anymore but makes trendy outfit for mass consumers. For the industry to continue to thrive, we need more talents and professionals who can come up with creative design and are devoted to enhance competitiveness of the industry.'
Associate Professor Dr Allan Chan said ITC was truly grateful to Win Hanverky for providing the seed money as well as valuable internship opportunities for PolyU students. He said this pioneering subject would enhance students' awareness of the highly sophisticated sportswear industry and provide additional opportunities for both industry and students.
Both Mr Li and Dr Chan were optimistic about the future development of the sportswear industry. They anticipated the hosting of the Olympic Games in Beijing would create an increasing awareness and demand for sportswear and other related accessories in the mainland market.
This subject, entitled 'Sportswear Design and Manufacture', will be offered as an elective module for second-year students of the BA(Hons) Programme in Fashion and Textile, starting from the 2007/2008 academic year. The curriculum covers the global sportswear market; history of popular sports and sportswear; design concepts for sportswear; fabrics and materials for sportswear; machinery and manufacture of sportswear as well as their quality requirements. 
In addition to inviting guest speakers from the industry to share their insights with budding designers; students will also visit factories in the Chinese mainland to gain an in-depth understanding of the industry's operation.
The on-campus press briefing yesterday was followed by a mini-fashion show, with PolyU students modelling on sportswear outfits sponsored by Win Hanverky.
In Hong Kong, PolyU is the sole provider of fashion design education at the tertiary level. Many fashion graduates of the Institution have made their marks in the market and they include Vivienne Tam, Pascino Wan and Margaret Ha, and others.
