
[date]2007.04.19[/date]
[title]Fourteen outstanding mainland entrepreneurs awarded PolyU’s Bauhinia Cup[/title]
Fourteen winners of the 2007 Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards were presented with their prizes by Prof. Cheng Siwei, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) at a gala dinner yesterday (19 April). Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of Liaison Office of The Central People's Government in the HKSAR, also attended the function as a special guest.
This event is staged as a major activity of the University's 70th Anniversary celebrations. Organized by PolyU for the fifth time, this activity aims to give public recognition to outstanding entrepreneurs from the private sector in the Chinese mainland. It also provides a valuable opportunity for entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and the mainland to exchange their experiences and explore further business opportunities. 
This year, the scope of businesses of the 14 mainland entrepreneurs covers information technology, pharmaceutical products, metals and machines, materials, electronics, commercial services, foods, and construction. Among them, two are helmsmen of locally listed mainland enterprises.  (Please refer to the full list of awardees below). 
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said: 'Entrepreneurs of the private sector have been playing a pivotal role in China's modernization process. With the implementation of the 11th Five-Year Plan, they are expected to push ahead with mainland's further economic development. Being a close partner of businesses and industries, PolyU will continue to nurture professional manpower for various industries, promote applied researches and innovations, and further strengthen its collaborations with entrepreneurs of both places.'
Under the Awards scheme, candidates were assessed objectively by a nine-member Selection Committee comprising prominent community leaders and distinguished entrepreneurs from the mainland and Hong Kong. All awardees are remarkable leaders who have made significant contributions to business and industry.
This year Prof. Cheng Siwei also served as the Honorary President of the Awards scheme; while Dr Henry Tseng Chee is the Chairman of the Organising Committee. Members of the Presidium include Mr Xie Boyang, Vice Chairman of The All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce; Mr Ji Yunshi, Vice Chairman of the China Association for International Exchange of Personnel; Mr Duan Yongji, Executive Chairman of the Board of China Non-Governmental Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association cum Executive Chairman of the Board of Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association; Mr Kenneth Ting, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Mr Peter H.H. Hung, President of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Mr Fok Chun-wan, Chairman of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce; Dr Lily Chiang, Deputy Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President. This major event is also supported by major business organizations in both Hong Kong and the mainland. Co-organizers include the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce, China Association for International Exchange of Personnel, China Non-Government Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association, Federation of Hong Kong Industries, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong and Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association.
Since its launch in 1997, the Bauhinia Cup Awards scheme has honoured a total of 90 outstanding entrepreneurs from the Chinese mainland. Among the distinguished awardees are Dr Lu Quanqiu, Chairman of the Board of Wanxiang Group, and Mr Duang Yongji, Chairman of the Stone Group Corporation.
Awardees of the scheme, including those of the past years, have been invited to join the Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Association, which was established in 2002 with an aim to serve as a network for entrepreneurs and help promote the continuous economic development of the country. 
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University2007 Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur AwardsList of Awardees

 
Name
Title
Organisation
1.
Mr. Ding Jianzhong      
Chairman of the Board
Xinjiang Hua Lian Construction Group Co., Ltd.
2.
Mr. Wang Shuifu
Chairman
Xizi United Holding Corporation
3.
Mr. Wang Xiang
Chairman of the Board
Beingsong Group
4.
Mr. Niu Gensheng
Board Chairman
Inner Mongolia Mengniu Dairy Industry (Group) Co., Ltd.
5.
Mr. Ruan Xiaoming
Board Chairman
Gemsy Sewing Machine Group
6.
Mr. Li Pezhi
Board Chairman
Shanghai Xinhua Control Technology (Group) Co., Ltd.
7.
Mr. Li Qin
Board Director and Executive Vice-President
Legend Holdings Ltd.
 
 
Board Chairman
Digital China Holdings Ltd.
8.
Mr. Wu Ruilin
CEO
Cosun Group Co., Ltd.
9.
Mr. Xu Hong
Board Chairman and General Manager
Shanghai Hi-tech Control System Co., Ltd.
10.
Dr. Guo Zhenyu
General Manager
Kunming Dihon Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
11.
Mr. Huang Liming
Director and General Manager
Zhejiang Mingquan Industrial Coating Co., Ltd.
12.
Mr Cheng Delong        
General Manager
King Eagle Zhigu Group Co., Ltd.
13.
Mr. Xiong Xianzhong
Chairman of the Board
Jiangxi Hong Kelong Investment Group
14.
Mr. Liu Yonghao
Chairman
New Hope Group
