
[date]2007.07.11[/date]
[title]PolyU and Lane Crawford join hands to showcase Hong Kong’s designers of tomorrow[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), supported by Lane Crawford (Hong Kong) Limited, is staging, for the second year, an exhibition of the creative works of its outstanding graduating students at Lane Crawford Pacific Place. The exhibition is now open to public until 31 July.
Themed 'Future Fashion 2007', the exhibition showcases the innovative works of 12 outstanding students selected from over 160 works of the graduating Degree and Higher Diploma students in fashion and textile. Students' works were selected by Lane Crawford's Fashion Director Ms Sarah Rutson Pang and Visual Director Mr Bartley Ingram.
Among the 12 student exhibitors, three were also presented 'Most Promising Young Talents Awards' and cash prizes sponsored by Lane Crawford at the ITC's graduation fashion show held at the Hotel Intercontinental Hong Kong on 20 June.
The exhibition was first launched in June last year, with its aim to honour and support Hong Kong's up-and-coming fashion design talents from the graduating class of PolyU's ITC.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities. This year the Institute is also celebrating its 50th anniversary.
The 12 student exhibitors are: Eileen Chan Hiu-wai, Ferrando Chan Kwan-ki, Cheung Hoi-lam, Chiu Yuen-shan, Stephanie Ho Ngan-Ying, Jin Lam Chi-hin, Phoebe Leung Ka-kei, Yvette Lo Yim-Yi, Kim Tang Kim-kui, Penter Yip Chi-hung, Yiu To-ha and Ruby Yu Ka-wai. Among them, Eileen Chan Hiu-wai, Jin Lam Chi-hin and Kim Tang Kim-kui are winners of the 'Most Promising Young Talents Awards' sponsored by Lane Crawford.
