
[date]2007.05.29[/date]
[title]"Talking Across the World" Conference kicks off at PolyU[/title]
Some 50 language experts from six countries and territories, including Australia, the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong, India, the Philippines and the UK, gathered on The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus yesterday (29 May) to attend a symposium, prior to the 2nd International Conference on 'Talking Across the World' to be held from 31 May to 2 June in Manila. The symposium was kicked off yesterday by Prof. Suleyman Demokan, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU.
The events in both places aim to provide unique opportunity for academics and industry trainers and managers to share concerns and outcomes related to communication in the Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) industry, in which communication is often done in a 'faceless' way, and for which customer service representatives' possession of excellent communication skills are always vital to the success of a business.
Addressing the Symposium, Prof. Demokan said, "The number of English language contact centres in Asia has increased dramatically and English communication skills present a major hurdle for the development of this industry. The importance of excellent English communication skills has a knock on effect for issues like recruitment, training, customer service, quality assurance, profit margins and other areas. The wide range of topics covered in today's symposium will no doubt provide an avenue for academics and industry practitioners to share ideas, improve and develop collaboration and listen to some of the best practices in the field." The events will feature presentations by prominent speakers including academics with backgrounds in linguistics, intercultural communication, organizational management and training and industry experts. Focus of discussion will be on recent trends, research and current best practices in training for Business Process Outsourcing communication success in a globalised world. The events will not only provide excellent platforms for exchange of ideas and experiences, but also facilitate collaboration and sharing of best practices in the industries.
The one-day event in Hong Kong, which is staged as one of the celebratory events of PolyU's 70th Anniversary, is co-organised by PolyU's Department of English and the Hong Kong Institute of Education. The 3-day event in Manila will be with two more co-organisers, namely FuturePerfect Business English Specialists, Inc. and Stockholm University, and will be joined by more speakers from Europe.
More details of this event are available at url: www.talkingacrosstheworld.com/default.html.  For enquiries and registration, please call 2766-4364.
