
[date]2007.05.15[/date]
[title]HKCC helps promote the use of English among the younger generation[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) recently fully supported the English Festival for the second year in a row. Organized by the Standing Committee on Language Education and Research (SCOLAR) of the Education and Manpower Bureau, the English Festival was held to create a motivating English language environment outside the classroom. 
During April, more than 60 HKCC students and teachers put together an English Language Camp Leader Training Programme for more than 300 Form Four to Six students from 34 secondary schools. The programme trained secondary school students on the leadership skills and games design techniques required to organize an English Language Camp in primary schools.
On 5 May, the English Language Camp was held at 34 primary schools, involving over 1,600 Primary Four to Six students. On that day, the trained camp leaders led the students in playing alphabet puzzles, singing songs, and interactive vocabulary games, all conducted in English. 
Director of HKCC, Dr Simon Leung, said, 'At HKCC, we value students' whole-person development while realizing their academic aspirations. In this academic year, HKCC has organized more than 200 co-curricular activities to help broaden our students' horizon. Through our enthusiastic participation in the English Festival, we have not only aroused our students' interests in the use of English, but have also provided an English-speaking environment for the primary and secondary school students. This facilitated youngsters to learn English in a fun and relaxing way.'   
The idea to organize an English Language Camp Leader Training Programme and an English Language Camp was initiated by a strong team of 22 full-time English lecturers at HKCC. Their creative proposal was selected by SCOLAR to be one of the eight major activities of this year's English Festival, among many other proposals submitted by local organizations.
HKCC always places emphasis on developing students' language skills. This year, besides holding regular workshops on English interviewing skills, an English Speaking Day was organized to encourage students to speak in English on campus. HKCC lecturers also outreach to the community by contributing short English articles to a weekly column of Ming Pao Daily News, and presenting editorials in English and Putonghua, which can be accessed via the Ming Pao English webpage. 
