
[date]2007.04.04[/date]
[title]PolyU receives donation from Fenix Group[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has received a donation of $350,000 from the Fenix Group, made in commemoration of the Group's 35th anniversary.
The donation, taking the form of scholarship and travelling sponsorships, will be given to selected students of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC). Students who are awarded one of these scholarships will be provided the valuable opportunity to study in either one of the renowned design institutes: Central Saint Martins College of Art in London or Design and Istituto Maragoni in Milan. Besides, the Group will offer exciting internship and employment opportunities to students in the areas of fashion retail, design and marketing, manufacturing, and visual merchandising, etc.
Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Chair Professor and Head of ITC said, 'We are very pleased that with the donation of the Fenix Group, our students can benefit not only from their financial support for study trips, but also have the unprecedented chance to study in two prestigious fashion and design institutes.'
Mr Anthony Keung, Managing Director of the Fenix Group, said, 'I share PolyU's mission in nurturing preferred graduates to meet the rising demands in the apparel industry. Through the donation, I hope ITC students can widen their international exposure and enhance their competitive edge. I also wish that with my support to PolyU, it can set an example to other industries to support the nurturing of more local talents.'
The Fenix Group has been supporting PolyU since 2005 through the donation of $200,000 for the development of the University. On top of making the donations, Mr Keung enthusiastically shard his experience in successfully building the Group's brand of 'Anteprima' in the market. In early March, a group of ITC students were also sponsored to travel to Shanghai to visit the Spin Expo. During the trip, students had a chance to attend a seminar on cashmere manufacturing organized by Fenix.
Established in 1972, the Fenix Group started its business as a trading company of raw materials before becoming a garment manufacturer. Not long after, it branched out to become an agent for international labels, and now a famous brand builder. Popular brands of the Group include, Anteprima, Furla, Atsuro Tayama, A/T, citysuper, etc.
   
