
[date]2007.07.25[/date]
[title]HKCC and AIA team up to develop accounting and finance educational programmes for mainland students[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) yesterday (25 July) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with The Association of International Accountants (AIA), Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce (SLUC) and Nanjing University of Finance and Economics (NUFE), to develop annual accounting and finance summer programmes for SLUC and NUFE accountancy students.
The MoU was signed by Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC; Mr Tommy Lok, CEO of AIA Hong Kong Branch; Ms Li Ying-qi, Director of Lixin Accounting Research Institute, Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce; and Ms Xu Chao-wen, Lecturer of The Accounting School, Nanjing University of Finance and Economics.
Under this collaboration, the accounting and finance summer programmes developed by HKCC and AIA are taught by HKCC lecturers. This summer alone, 40 mainland students have completed a series of courses which help to widen their horizon on international accounting and finance, including topics on financial reporting, financial management and auditing.  
In addition to the summer study programmes, the collaborating parties have organized tours for the mainland students to visit local financial institutions and leading accounting firms. HKCC student ambassadors not only assisted the mainland students' learning and discussion in class, but also helped to coordinate the company visits as well as other cultural tours arranged for the visiting students in town. 
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Dr Simon Leung said, 'HKCC is pleased to enter into this partnership with AIA to bring global perspective to accountancy students from mainland China. In view of the convergence of China's accounting and auditing standards with international standards, the knowledge on international accounting and financial reporting is especially important to students studying in this field. This collaboration also provides an excellent opportunity for local and mainland students to exchange and learn from each other.' 
Describing the summer programme as an amazing opportunity for students, Mr Tommy Tam, President of AIA UK said, 'It offers an insight and understanding into the accounting and finance procedures of a different country. AIA wants students to gain first hand knowledge on international accounting, and we feel that these tours offer a method of learning that cannot be executed in a university environment alone.'
About the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC)
Established in 2001, HKCC is committed to providing quality associate degree programmes which aim at all-rounded development of students. With a student population of over 3,500, HKCC currently offers 26 programmes covering a spectrum of arts, science, social sciences, business and specialized subjects. HKCC graduates enjoy good prospect with over 70 per cent of graduates on average articulated into degree studies.  
About AIA
Based in the UK, the AIA is an international accountancy body offering an accountancy qualification, recognized by the UK Government under the Companies Act 1989 as a professional qualification for company auditors. The AIA was specifically founded to provide an international organization for professional accountants and is fully committed to the ongoing achievement of this original aim. The AIA has a network of branches in many countries throughout the world.
