
[date]2007.09.03[/date]
[title]New academic year kicks off[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s new academic year kicked off with a series of welcoming ceremonies held on campus for its full-time students yesterday (3 September). To help them familiarize with university services, an on-campus 'Induction Showcase' with fun-filled game stalls is also being staged until 5 September.
The academic year 2007/2008 sees the admission of some 4,055 students funded by the University Grants Committee, including 2,404 degree and 1,651 higher diploma students. In addition, there are 455 self-financed students. More than 87 per cent of the undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as their Band A choices. The University has also admitted 272 students from the Chinese mainland, as compared to 250 last year. They will start a one-year foundation programme prior to their progression to Bachelor's degree studies. This year PolyU received 7,300 applications from mainland students. Among them, 80 per cent have met the entrance requirements of state key universities. The majority of them came from Beijing and the provinces of Guangdong, Liaoning, Shanxi and Zhejiang. Their most popular choices of programmes are: accounting and finance, hotel management, financial services, electronic and information engineering, and the double degree in business administration and engineering.
In addition, the University has admitted 16 overseas students from nine countries and territories, including Cameroon, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Pakistan, Philippine, Singapore and Sweden.  They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different application-oriented programmes offered by the University. 
In recognition of their academic or non-academic achievements, PolyU has awarded scholarships to some 132 students. They include 29 local students who have achieved excellent results in the Advanced Level Examinations or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by international standards; 93 mainland students who excelled in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination; and 10 overseas students. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance, have been granted to these students basing on their academic or non-academic achievements. 
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 61 students are admitted to the University via the Sub-system for School Principals' Nominations Scheme, and 1,268 through the Self-Recommendation Scheme and Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme. 
Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU has developed an extensive network with about 500 partner institutions located across some 35 countries. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 550 international students and sends forth an equivalent number of its students abroad for exchange this year. 
Currently, more than 285 students from 99 institutions in 19 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.  
