
[date]2007.06.28[/date]
[title]HKCC Beauty and Health Therapy programme gains overseas recognition[/title]
The Associate in Beauty and Health Therapy programme of the PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) is recently accredited by City and Guilds, UK's largest awarding body in vocational qualifications.  Under the accreditation arrangement, students who successfully completed the first year of the programme are entitled to apply for City and Guilds Diploma in Beauty Therapy (Practical) [International Vocational Qualification (IVQ) Level 2] and Certificate in Cosmetic Make Up (after passing the written assessment). Also, students who have completed Year Two of the programme can apply for the City and Guilds Advanced Diploma in Beauty Therapy (Practical) [IVQ Level 3].  The Associate in Beauty and Health Therapy programme provides structured and systematic training for further professional development in the beauty and health industry. The subjects covered in the programme are grouped under three categories: techniques, science and management. Students will learn practical techniques such as facial treatment, cosmetology and make up, facial electrical treatment and massage skills. Besides, relevant science subjects will be taught such as applied physics and instrumentation in health care, immunology and cosmetics chemistry. In addition, students will gain knowledge on marketing and business management skills. The 2007/08 academic year will also see HKCC's programmes restructured into four main schemes, namely, Applied Social Sciences, Business, Humanities and Communication, and Science and Technology. Together with three other specialized subject programmes including Beauty and Health Therapy, Design and Health Studies, a wide array of 26 programmes will be offered. Within the Applied Social Sciences scheme, three new programmes, Psychology, Social Welfare and Sociology and Culture, will be introduced. A new Language and Culture programme will also be added into the Humanities and Communication scheme. Under this revamped programme structure, HKCC students will have the flexibility to select different subjects in the first year of study and make their choices of programme specialization before starting the second year. Information Sessions for the various programmes will be conducted from 29 June to 4 July while walk-in applications by interested students are welcome between 28 June and 6 July 2007. For more details, please call 3400 2868 or visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc. 
