
[date]2007.04.23[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Construction and Land Use provides platform to enrich students’ industry experience[/title]
The Faculty of Construction and Land Use (FCLU) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) recently organized its first High Table Dinner, which provided a chance for students to interact with prominent industry leaders. The event also celebrated the University's 70 years of proud history in educating professionals for the building, engineering and construction industries.
The dinner was joined by about 300 industry leaders, students, alumni and faculty members, including Mr Marco Wu Moon-hoi, Vice Chairman of Hong Kong Housing Society and Awardee of PolyU Outstanding Alumni 2007; Ir Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Research Development) and Dean of FCLU (2000-2005); Prof. Michael Anson, First Dean of FCLU; and Prof. Andrew Baldwin, incumbent Dean of FCLU.
Addressing the event, Prof. Baldwin said, 'This high table dinner is a golden opportunity for students to learn from industry experts. I am sure that it will be a lifetime experience for our students. Today, we have the chance to revisit our achievements in nurturing talents for the past 70 years, and we are so proud of the creditable success of our alumni working in different construction industry specialisms.' The Faculty now has 120 scholars and eight research centres and enjoys increasing international recognition both in teaching and research. Its Department of Building Services Engineering is honoured with the Happold Brilliant Award for Excellence in Teaching 2005/06 by the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers. Also, according to a survey performed by Thomson Scientific, PolyU ranked first in the world in terms of number of papers published in leading journals from 2003 to 2005 in the civil engineering field.
FCLU has long established a close network with the industry, and this contributes to the many guest lectures, international study tours, company visits and work integrated education for students. With the support of local employers, FCLU successfully runs a Mentorship Scheme in which industry practitioners serve as mentors to help prepare students for real world challenges. Throughout these years, students found the scheme vital to their gaining practical insights into professional practice.
PolyU's history in providing education in the building, engineering and construction fields can be traced back to the days of Government Trade School, PolyU's predecessor, in 1937. Rapid development was seen in the following years, leading up to the establishment of the FCLU in 1992. Currently, the Faculty consists of four departments which specialized in Building and Real Estate, Building Services Engineering, Civil and Structural Engineering as well as Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics.
