
[date]2007.05.14[/date]
[title]PolyU launches International Symposium on Orthokeratology[/title]
More than 150 participants from 11 countries and territories yesterday (14 May) participated in the first ever International Symposium on Orthokeratology (Ortho-K) organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Optometry.
This event aimed to present the current science and practice of orthokeratology and to set the standard on related practice. It also provided a forum for clinicians, practitioners, academics and researchers to keep abreast of updated knowledge in this discipline.
Notably, five leading optometry experts have presented their views on pertinent issue related to orthokeratology at the symposium. They included Australian Ortho-K expert Prof. Patrick Caroline of Pacific University College of Optometry in US; Mr. John Mountford, who authored the book 'Orthokeratology: Principles and Practices'; Mr Craig Norman of the Michigan College of Optometry in US; Dr Helen Swarbrick of the University of New South Wales; and Dr. Pauline Cho of PolyU's School of Optometry.
During the conference, Prof. Patrick Caroline also gave a talk on 'Myopia Control and the Future of Orthokeratology'.  In his presentation, he has reviewed some significant researches on the effectiveness of orthokeratology on myopia control.
In addition, Dr. Pauline Cho talked about the importance of good compliance and practices in orthokeratology.  She also presented the latest research findings of her on-going study on current users of Ortho-k lenses and made comparisons with a previous study on new wearers. 
While wearing Ortho-K lenses have been clinically proven to control myopia, Dr Cho said the special lenses, like any other contact lenses, might not be suitable for all and especially for those with tight eye lips, high myopia or astigmatism. She concluded that good compliance is essential to ensure safety of wearing Ortho-K contact lenses, and patients should seek the treatment from those registered optometrists with specialised training.
This event was sponsored by Alcon Hong Kong Limited; Menicon Company Limited; Paragon Vision Sciences Incorporation; Polymer Technology (a Bausch &amp; Lomb Company); and Skyview Optical Company Limited.
