
[date]2007.07.29[/date]
[title]PolyU holds summer business camp for secondary students[/title]
About 70 Secondary Six students from 39 secondary schools have enjoyed a four-day dynamic and inspiring summer camp organized by the Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). 
The PolyU Summer Business Camp 2007, which was held from 23 to 26 July on PolyU campus, was tailored to enhance participants' understanding of Hong Kong's business environment and to develop their leadership skills. 
Camp coordinator Dr Mak Wai-ming of FB's Department of Management and Marketing said, 'To equip our young generation to be future leaders of society, we organized this Camp, themed 'Hong Kong's Competitive Edge' to better them to develop an early understanding of the local and global business environment.'
The Camp featured a series of lectures by FB's professors on topics with themes including 'Potential of the Financial Services Industry in Hong Kong and Opportunities for Business Graduates', 'The Hong Kong Logistics Industry and Opportunities in Greater China', 'The New Skills of Future Leaders' and 'The Hong Kong Business World: The Need for More Engaged Business Graduates'. The lectures gave participants an overview of Hong Kong's key economic sectors and reviewed the impact of the recent economic policies of the Chinese mainland on Hong Kong.
The Camp adopted a stimulating mix of action-learning, games and personal encounters to help participants explore the personal and interpersonal skills needed in the competitive business world today. Participants also had the chance to meet with current PolyU MBA students who shared their study experience and also participated in experiential exercises. The Camp was concluded with a Business Plan Competition, in which students applied the knowledge and skills they learned during the Camp.
The students found that the Camp was lots of fun. 'I have experienced a really vibrant university life with informative lectures and interactive workshops.  I am so glad that my interpersonal, organisational and leadership skills have been sharpened through the team activities,' said Jerry Tam, a Secondary Six student from Ho Lap College.
'The Camp also provided an invaluable opportunity for us to learn from professors, FB and MBA students,' echoed Chloe Chan of Marymount Secondary School. 'I am most impressed by the Business Plan Competition which gave me a taste of working in the business world.' 
'I could not imagine that the summer camp can be so enriching.  The sharing of MBA students has encouraged me to work toward my goals with perseverance.  As managers/senior executives in their respective companies, they have managed to juggle work and MBA studies because they value life-long learning. They set good models for me,' said Lilian Leung of Holy Trinity College.
This is the fourth year that FB has organised the Summer Business Camp. Over the years, the Camp has received fervent responses from secondary schools. This year's Camp is one of the celebratory events of PolyU's 70th anniversary.
       
