
[date]2007.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles expresses gratitude to industrial partners[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Faculty of Applied Science &amp; Textiles (FAST) organized 'An Evening with Industry' on 4 May to express gratitude to industrial partners for their generous support to PolyU over the years.
The dinner, which was staged as one of the celebratory activities of PolyU's 70th Anniversary, was attended by nearly 300 guests, including eminent industrialists, PolyU's alumni, members and students, and with Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) as the Guest of Honour. Prof. Philip Yeung and CL Choy, former Deans of FAST, also joined the event.
Addressing the dinner, Prof. Albert Chan, Dean of FAST, expressed his sincere appreciation for the continuous support from the industries to PolyU. He also shared with guests the distinguished achievements and latest development of the constituent departments. They included obtaining the Central Government's approval to establish in Shenzhen the first State Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese; the international recognition gained for PolyU's research on smart materials; the successful recruitment of world-class mathematicians; and securing a government grant of HK$300 million for research and development of textiles and apparel. Prof. Chan added that FAST will continue to strive for enhancing its research strength and ultimately the well-being of the community at large.
A variety of exciting performances were staged during the dinner. They stretched from jazz to classical music by PolyU members and friends, and also included a mini-fashion show debuting the works of our Institute of Textiles and Clothing's student designers, who are also the finalists of the Hong Kong Young Fashion Designers' Contest organized by the Hong Kong Trade Development Council; and a piano recital by Miss Vanessa Wong Wai-yin, famous young pianist.
A fundraising auction of two paintings entitled 'Bamboo' and 'Peach' donated by Mr Fung Pak-kiu of Han Sheng Tang Herbal Holdings Limited was also held during the dinner. The proceeds would support scholarships for FAST students.
