
[date]2007.03.29[/date]
[title]PolyU President calls for more financial support to students[/title]
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), yesterday (29 March) made an appeal to donors and members of the public to support university education through the establishment of more scholarships, bursaries and other forms of financial assistance to students.
Speaking at the university's annual reception for donors, Prof. Poon said:  'Nowadays tertiary institutions around the world are competing for young talents, and we could not afford to lag behind in this global race. The provision of full scholarships would therefore attract more outstanding students to pursue studies at PolyU.' 
Prof. Poon also pointed out that although the local economy is getting better and better, many of PolyU undergraduate students are still genuinely in need of financial support, as reflected in the latest findings of the university's survey on new students.
'Our typical first-year students come from families with a median household income of $15,027, and 23.9 per cent of these families earn less than $10,000 per month. Nearly forty per cent of their parents didn't receive formal schooling or only attained primary education,' said Prof. Poon.
'The cost of tuition fees together with living expenses may pose a problem to many of these families, and the availability of bursaries would therefore alleviate their financial burden in times of need and encourage our students in their academic pursuit.'
With the very generous support of more than 300 donors, some 4,700 PolyU students have been granted a total of nearly $40million in the forms of scholarships, traveling scholarships, bursaries, education loans, emergency grants and loans, or sponsorship for participation in a wide variety of student activities during the 2006/07 academic year.   
In addition, PolyU has accumulated a donation sum of more than $25 million to its Student Development Fund since its establishment in 2002.
The ceremony ended with a vote of thanks by student representative Mr Ng Man Tung, a third-year student of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, and live performance of traditional Chinese music by PolyU students.
