
[date]2007.09.12[/date]
[title]PolyU SD Design Month 2007 kicks off[/title]
The School of Design (SD) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) kicked off its Design Month 2007 on its on-campus Gallery yesterday (12 September) with an exhibition which showcased the creative works of two outstanding alumni Mr Tommy Li and Mr Barrie Ho and 11 student projects in the disciplines of Visual Communication, Advertising, Environment and Interior, Industrial and Product.
The Design Month 2007 was opened by Mr Li, Mr Ho and Prof. Lorraine Justice, PolyU's Director of School of Design and Swire Chair Professor of Design. It will last until 26 October.
An internationally celebrated designer, Mr Tommy Li, the Creative Director of Tommy Li Design Workshop Ltd, has received numerous awards, including the Hong Kong Artist of the Year Award 1997 and a Gold Pencil Award 2007 by The One Show in New York, in recognition of his unparalleled creative outputs over the years.
The Founder and Director of Barrie Ho Architecture Interiors Ltd, Mr Barrie Ho has won the Ten Outstanding Young Persons Award and the Ten Outstanding Designer Award in 2005 and the Outstanding Greater China Design Awards in 2006 and 2007 among many others.
Both SD graduates have received the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award this year.
The exhibition, which is titled CONNECTION, comprises two parts. Part One held at the SD Gallery connects design with the audience and SD alumni and students, enabling the audience to testify the development of SD students now and then.
Part Two of the CONNECTION Exhibition, to be staged at Atrium II of Gateway Arcade of Harbour City in Tsimshatsui from 17 to 23 September, will put the creative works of the SD graduates and other award-winning projects in the limelight in the city centre, proactively connecting design to the community. The SizeChina.com Research Findings Press Conference will also be held at this occasion. SizeChina.com is the world's first design research project on head and face shapes of the Chinese population.
In addition to the exhibition, the Design Month 2007 also features an Alumni Lecture Series titled 'Connecting Design and Life'. Four distinguished graduates from SD will share with the audience their life experiences as a designer, connecting design education to their personal development. They are Mr Paul Chan, Partner, Chan Tsang Wong Chu &amp; Mee Advertising Firm; Mr Terrance Tam, Director and Chief Cybertect, James Law Cybertecture International Holding Ltd; Mr Ringo Mak, President, Talentoy Ltd; and Mr Ben Lui, CEO and Creative Chief, IGOO (SH &amp; HK) Communications Ltd.Other highlights of the Design Month 2007 include a graduation show by the Master of Science students in Multimedia and Entertainment Technology, A Design Link Party, the Parents' Night, the Education Info Weekend and the SD 43rd Anniversary Gala Dinner and Concert. (Please see table below for details.)
Programmes of PolyU SD Design Month 2007
12 Sept (7-9pm)
Alumni Lecture Series No. I by Mr Paul Chan, Partner, Chan Tsang Wong Chu &amp; Mee Advertising Firm
Courtyard, SD, PolyU campus
13 Sept (7-9pm)
Alumni Lecture Series No. II by Mr Terence Tam, Director and Chief Cybertect, James Law Cybertecture International Holding Ltd
Courtyard, SD, PolyU campus
12 Sept-26 Oct 9am-7:30pm)
CONNECTION Exhibition Part I ' Mr Barrie Ho + Mr Tommy Li + SD Students
SD Gallery, PolyU campus
17-23 Sept (10am-9pm)
CONNECTION Exhibition Part II ' Graduates + Award Winning Projects
Atrium II, Gateway Arcade, Harbour City
19 Sept (7-9pm)
Alumni Lecture Series No. III by Mr Ringo Mak, President, Talentoy Ltd
Courtyard, SD, PolyU campus
20 Sept (7-9pm)
Alumni Lecture Series No. IV by Mr Ben Lui, CEO and Creative Chief, IGOO (SH &amp; HK) Communication Ltd
Courtyard, SD, PolyU campus
22 Sept (4-7pm)
A Design Link Party 
Chamber 1a &amp; b, InnoCentre, Kowloon Tong
28 Sept (7-8:30pm)
Master of Science in Multimedia &amp; Entertainment Technology Graduation Show (Screening)
Chinag Chen Studio Theatre, PolyU campus
28 Sept-13 Oct (10am-7pm)
Master of Science in Multimedia &amp; Entertainment Technology Graduation Show (Exhibition)
PQ002, PolyU campus
6-7 Oct
PolyU Education Info Weekend &amp; SD Guided Tours
SD &amp; Podium
9 Oct (6:30-9pm)
SD Parents' Night
Courtyard, SD, PolyU campus
26 Oct (6:30-9:30pm)
SD 43rd Anniversary Gala Dinner &amp; Concert
SD &amp; Core A Podium, PolyU campus
Website: www.sd.polyu.edu.hk/designmonth2007
