
[date]2007.09.13[/date]
[title]PolyU shows innovation capability at Innovation Expo[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will showcase more than 80 innovations, including the world's first bottom-up high precision micro-injection moulding machine, in this year's Innovation Expo organized by the Innovation and Technology Commission. Staged at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from 14 to 18 September, it is also a major celebration event of the 10th Anniversary of the Hong Kong SAR.
This state-of-the-art Micro-Injection Moulding Machine will be unveiled by Mr Anthony Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology; Ms Chong Siw-yin, Chairperson, L.K. Technology Holdings Limited; Mr Lee Chung, Managing Director, Confi Metal Fui Shing Co. Ltd; Mr Daniel Yip Chung-yin, Managing Director, G.E.W. Corporation Limited; Mr M.C. Yeung, Managing Director, SEMK Industrial (Holdings) Co., Ltd; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) at the PolyU booth on 14 September (Friday) at noon.
According to Principal Investigator of the project Prof. Yung Kai-leung, Associate Head of the University's Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, this machine is capable of making miniature parts as light as 0.01 gram, which is made possible by adopting a revolutionary upward injection design to eliminate the air entrapment problem and the need for shutoff. In contrast, other moulding machines only attempt to reduce the size of conventional designs.
This PolyU-developed innovation will find extensive applications in the miniaturization of products and producing high precision micro plastic parts such as micro bio-mechanisms, micro-pumps, medical parts, micro lenses and optical connectors. The revolutionary innovation was awarded a Gold Medal in the International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products of Geneva in April this year.
This technology was developed at PolyU's Microsystems Technology Centre established in 2005 with substantial funding from the Innovation and Technology Fund and is now ready for commercialization. Prof. Yung has already secured one US patent and filed four patents in different countries and territories for this breakthrough.
Following the launching ceremony of the moulding machine, PolyU will officially announce its collaboration with the Dunwell Group. The University has licensed to the company a novel wastewater treatment technology, the Regenerable Nanosorbents technology developed by its Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology. The technology uses innovative, regenerable polymer particles sized in nano scale to adsorb the recalcitrant organic and inorganic contaminants frequently found in landfill leachate and industrial wastewater. The saturated nano-particles containing the adsorbed contaminants are then separated by a vibrating ultra-filtration process. For three years it has been put under stringent laboratory and pilot tests and is proven to be very effective. This environmentally friendly technology is expected to be available for commercial use in 2008.
Other PolyU innovations to be highlighted in the Expo include the Fiber Optic Sensor System for railway monitoring, the Smart Dressing System for advising mix-and-match styles to customers, the Telehealth System and the Smart Car, an innovative environmental electric vehicle developed by the Power Electronics Research Centre. Care apparel from PolyU's Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre will also be displayed and demonstrated. In addition, participants can enjoy activities such as games, fashion show and health check services for free.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the above-mentioned events and other PolyU innovation projects displayed at the Innovation Expo 2007. Details are as below:
Date:   14 September 2007 (Friday)Venue:  Booth H1, Hall 1B and 1C, The Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre
Launching Ceremony of the Micro-Injection Moulding Machine
Time:    12:00 nnOfficiating guest:
 Mr Anthony Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology Ms Chong Siw-yin, Chairperson, L.K. Technology Holdings Limited Mr Lee Chung, Managing Director, Confi Metal Fui Shing Co. Ltd Mr Daniel Yip Chung-yin, Managing Director, G.E.W. Corporation Limited Mr M.C. Yeung, Managing Director, SEMK Industrial (Holdings) Co., Ltd Mr Alexander H.C. Tzang, Deputy President, PolyU Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), PolyU
Collaboration Announcement with the Dunwell Group
Time:    12:20 p.m.Guest of Honour:
 Ir Daniel M. Cheng, MH, Managing Director, Dunwell Group Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice-President (Partnership Development), PolyU
