
[date]2007.08.16[/date]
[title]PolyU’s Faculty of Health and Social Sciences takes part in Hong Kong International Medical and Health Care Fair 2007[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set up a prominent booth at the newly opened Hong Kong International Medical and Health Care Fair 2007 to showcase many of its award-winning innovations.
To mark this special occasion, a Kick-Off Ceremony for FHSS booth was held yesterday (16 August) with Mr Anthony Wu, JP, Chairman of the Hospital Authority, Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development), and Mr Raymond Yip, Assistant Executive Director of the Hong Kong Trade and Development Council, as the Guests of Honour. 
The guests were invited to tour around the booth to experience the advance medical and health care products developed by the constituent schools and departments of FHSS.  Mr Anthony Wu also expressed appreciation for the FHSS-invented compact and versatile Portable Telehealth System (PTS), which has been adopted by China's national sports squads in their preparation for the 2008 Olympic Games.
Besides the PTS, other highlights of the PolyU booth include innovations in the areas of nursing, optometry, rehabilitation sciences and health informatics.  Among the inventions being displayed by the School of Nursing and the Department of Health Technology and Informatics are the Non-Invasive Blood Glucose Meter, Wearable Vital Sign Sensor, and REC-S1 Software Communication Board.  Various organizations are already using these award-winning devices to serve people with different special needs.
In addition to showing its latest inventions, the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences will be holding several seminars on health at work and sports at the booth during the five-day exhibition.  PolyVision will also host a public seminar on the topic 'Children's Vision Health' at the Grand Foyer at 12:45 pm to 1:15 pm on 19 August (Sunday).
To increase the public's awareness of personal health, FHSS is offering free health screenings and health advice to its booth visitors from 12:00 noon to 2:00 pm during the exhibition period.  Members of the public will gain better understanding of their own health status from their measurements such as blood pressure, pulse and Body Mass Index taken with the aid of the inventions.  Since the number of places is limited, the health screenings are being given on a first-come, first-served basis.
Booth visitors will also receive a specially designed pamphlet and calendar featuring well-known cartoon character McMug giving health tips and advice.  FHSS hopes these souvenirs will remind visitors about the importance of good health and encourage them to monitor their health on a regular basis.
The Hong Kong International Medical and Health Care Fair 2007 is being held at the Grand Hall of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from now until 20 August (opening hours: 10:00 am to 6:00 pm). It is expected to attract some 100,000 visitors. 
