
[date]2007.06.29[/date]
[title]Creativity of PolyU engineering students displayed in competitions[/title]
Fifteen fascinating 'RoboTanks' and four virtual reality games designed and created by students of the Department of Electronic and Information Engineering (EIE) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) vied for Championship in 'The 4th Robotic Project Competition and Interactive Game Design Competition' held on campus yesterday (29 June).
According to Head of EIE Prof. Michael Tse, who addressed the participants and the audience yesterday, the two competitions aimed at providing an opportunity for the EIE students to develop their system design skills, strengthen their problem-solving abilities and demonstrate their creativity. The event also let secondary school students have a taste of the study life at PolyU and experience the fun of engineering.
The two competitions proceeded alternately. In the Robotic Project Competition, the fully autonomous robots, each designed by a team of two students, searched for and collected cylindrical blocks that were placed in specific areas in the arena. The robot which piled up the highest stack within three minutes won. Four RoboTanks outplayed their rivals in the first round and competed for the Championship.
Innovative thinking of the engineering students was also demonstrated in the Interactive Game Design Competition. Employing the advanced body motion tracking system and interesting user interfaces, each team of three developed a three-dimensional virtual reality game to contend against the other two competing teams. The game with the best graphics and the most innovative design of user interface won the contest.
Close to 100 students from local universities and secondary schools attended the fun-filled event as spectators. They participated in the event by voting a RoboTank for The Best Appearance Award. 
This was the fourth year in a row that EIE tried to stimulate students' creativity and interest in robotics by means of competition. In the past years, the robotic project competition has attracted hundreds of students from secondary schools and tertiary institutions participating as spectators.
EIE offers full-time and part-time taught courses of four broad technical areas, namely, Multimedia and Signal Processing, Computer and Intelligent Systems, Circuits and Microelectronics, and Communications Engineering, at levels ranging from higher diploma to master's degree.
