
[date]2007.09.23[/date]
[title]High-spirited PolyU members form “Flags of Harmony and Unity”[/title]
A record was set by 21,726 members of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) community, its supporters and scouts in forming the world's largest national and SAR flags at the Siu Sai Wan Sports Ground yesterday (23 September).
This event, entitled 'Flags of Harmony and Unity', is the largest activity celebrating PolyU's 70th Anniversary. It is also an Accredited Event which commemorates HKSAR's 10th Anniversary. 
PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong hailed that this event not only showed the unity and vitality of the university community, but also raised more than $3 million for PolyU and charities. He also thanked the Scout Association of Hong Kong for co-organizing this event and the generosity of more than 30 sponsors (list attached).
The event was opened by Mr Michael Suen Ming-yeung; Secretary for Education of the HKSAR Government; Prof. Poon; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; and Organising Committee Chairman Dr Lam Tai-fai, Supervisor of Lam Tai Fai College. 
In the process of forming giant flag images, thousands of enthusiastic participants ' including PolyU students, staff, alumni, friends, scouts and supporters from external bodies ' stood closely together on the grass pitch and held up coloured boards to form the image of the national flag, and then formed the image of SAR flag by flipping over their boards. Each participant played an equally important part in the process. 
The fun-filled event also featured exciting entertainment programme, including performances by many Canton pop singers, including Miss Kary Ng, Miss Theresa Fu, Mr Kenny Kwan, PolyU alumni as well as the Student Taekwondo Club. Metro Radio Disc Jockeys Miss Sara Lee and Mr William Lam were Master of Ceremonies.
The net proceeds of this event will support PolyU, education for poor children on the Chinese mainland and services of the Senior Citizen Home Safety Association in Hong Kong.
Being the territory's largest UGC-funded tertiary institution in terms of student enrolment, PolyU has a proud history of showing its solidarity to the public. Five years ago, the University also brought together 11,273 participants to form the world's largest Human Rainbow in celebration of its 65th anniversary. 
