
[date]2007.09.11[/date]
[title]SPEED welcomes Scout Association of Hong Kong to join strong alliance of continuing education institutions[/title]
The Scout Association of Hong Kong (SAHK) has formally become a member of the Consortium of Continuing Education Institutions (CCEI), which was founded by the PolyU-affiliated School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) in 2000 to provide a platform for collaboration and exchange of good practices among continuing education institutions.
At a special ceremony yesterday (11 September), a Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Sir Gordon Wu Ying-sheung GBS, KCMG, FICE, Honorary President of SAHK and Ir Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Research Development), representing SPEED, the Convener of CCEI. The signing was witnessed by Mr Pau Shiu-hung, SBS Chief Commissioner of SAHK, and Prof. Peter Yuen, Dean of College of Professional and Continuing Education.
Under the agreement, subjects offered by SAHK may be benchmarked for credit transfer to SPEED under the School's Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) after proper assessment. Credit transfer will facilitate learners' pursuing different levels of CAM awards, including Certificate, Diploma, Associate or Bachelor degrees. 
In addressing the event, Sir Gordon Wu Ying-sheung said, 'This year the Scouting Movement celebrates its centenary. We are most pleased to join the Consortium in this memorable year of Scouting because we share the same mission with the CCEI in nurturing talents for the community through education, enabling young people to enhance their overall development and serve the community. Today's signing represents a milestone of the collaboration between the two organizations.'
Ir Prof. Ko Jan-ming remarked, 'On behalf of all member institutions, SPEED extends a very warm welcome to SAHK in joining the Consortium. Every member institution of the alliance possesses its own area of excellence and our network is expanding in size as well as in strength. By allowing credit transfer, learners will enjoy more flexibility in their pursuit of higher qualifications. With our concerted effort, we are not only facilitating people's career and self advancement, but also enhancing the human resources development in Hong Kong.'
With SAHK newly joining the Consortium, CCEI currently has 18 member institutions in Hong Kong and Macau.
One of the focal point of the collaboration between SPEED and SAHK is the offering of a Diploma in Leadership and Management in September 2007.  The programme will teach students innovative leadership and management skills through classroom teaching, leadership in practice and in-service training.
