
[date]2007.04.23[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index survey indicates positive market outlook[/title]
Confidence in residential property market remained buoyant in the first quarter of 2007. However, many respondents believed that housing prices were still too high, as found in the latest 'BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property' (BRE Index) survey conducted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Ranging from zero (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the first quarter of 2007 was 703, down three points from the last December 2006 survey. This survey was conducted in March 2007 with 1,075 successful telephone interviews. The response rate was 12.22 per cent. The sample comprises 602 (56%) homeowners and 473 (44%) non-homeowners.
The survey results show that residential property prices were expected to rise marginally in the second quarter of 2007. Overall, the expected average price change was 3.7 per cent in the next three months (last survey: 2.5 per cent), 5.0 per cent in one year (last survey: 4.3 per cent), and 5.1 per cent in three years (last survey: 6.4 per cent).
According to the survey, current housing prices in Hong Kong were perceived as high by potential home buyers. This follows the trend of previous quarters. Close to three-quarters (71%) of homeowners (HOs) (last survey: 76 per cent) and 79 per cent of non-homeowners (NHOs) (last survey: 84 per cent) felt prices 'somewhat too high' or 'extremely high'. The investment rating was reported 'good' or 'very good' by 25 per cent (last survey: 23 per cent) of HOs and 30 per cent (last survey: 19 per cent) of NHOs.
There was stronger indication for HOs to buy a property, 4.5 per cent of them (last survey: 0.8 per cent) and 1.5 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 1.7 per cent) planned to buy within three months. About 46 per cent of HOs (last survey: 33%) and 42 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 30%) thought that it was a 'somewhat good' or 'very good' time to buy a property in Hong Kong. Apparently, the stabilization in the residential property prices and the projected stable interest rate in the first quarter have provided additive incentives for them to buy.
Similar to the last survey results, family income was cited the most important factor affecting the home purchase decision, followed by location (for HOs) or interest rate (for NHOs). Seventy percent of HOs (last survey: 74 per cent) and 76 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 74 per cent) rated interest rate 'important' or 'very important'. From these figures it can be seen that the effect of the interest rate on housing decision seems to be mixed among HOs and NHOs: Its impact on HOs tends to be diminishing since last survey as it only ranks fourth among the factors, while it is more important in the mind of NHOs as it is the second most important factor.
Prof. Eddie Hui, Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Center for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) felt that the mass market outlook would continue to be positive as the recent stabilization in housing prices and lower mortgage rates have improved people's ability to buy a property in Hong Kong.
As far as real estate market fundamentals are concerned, it was found that the improved employment conditions and economy in Hong Kong continued to support the market. Overall, 43 per cent of respondents (last survey: 46 per cent) opined that local economic conditions would be 'better' or 'much better' in three months. The figure for job prospects was 28 per cent (last survey: 20 per cent). Family income, the most important factor affecting buying decision, was expected to 'greatly increase' or 'increase somewhat' by 29 per cent of respondents (last survey: 25 per cent).In anticipation of rising prices of high-end residential properties in certain prime locations, Prof. Francis Wong, Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE, believed that there would be increased residential property transactions, as a whole, in the short run.
Launched by RCCREE in December 2003, the BRE Index is a statistical pointer on the level of public confidence on the residential market. The Index, published quarterly, can be used to forecast future price trends and monitor expectations on the residential property market in Hong Kong. This was the 14th time that the Index was released.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
