
[date]2007.10.05[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Weekend[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Weekend this Saturday and Sunday (6 and 7 October) on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on the degree and sub-degree programmes and other significant developments of the University. PolyU's campus and facilities, as well as the Student Residential Hall, will be open to secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public.
Designed to help prospective students make their choice of study, the event provides JUPAS applicants and other visitors with detailed information about the characteristics, strengths and achievements of PolyU's various departments or schools by exhibitions, seminars, demonstrations, TV wall broadcast and guided visits. Staff of the Academic Secretariat and student ambassadors will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students. Furthermore, performances, stall games and other attractions will be held to ensure the Info Weekend lively and entertaining.
On Saturday (6 October), dedicated activities will be organized for the prospective applicants from the Chinese mainland to enhance their understanding of PolyU. Special forum will also be held to introduce the University's programmes to career teachers to facilitate their student counselling. 
On Sunday (7 October) from 2 pm to 3 pm, a special programme 'Cheers for Olympic' will be organized by the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, in which elite athletes, including Mr Benny Cheung, Gold Medallist in fencing in the 1996 Atlanta Paralympic Games and winner of the 'Ten Outstanding Young Persons of the World' in 1998, Mr So Wa-wai, holder of men's 100-meter world record for the mentally handicapped, and Ms Lynette Cheung, Bronze Medallist in women's epee fencing team in the 2006 Doha Asian Games, will join hands to cheer for the Hong Kong athletes participating in the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Demonstrations of ping pong, track field and judo will be staged. The fun-filled programme will also see demonstrations by physiotherapists and occupational therapists of the Department. 
Other highlights of the two-day event include the International Corner, which introduces overseas exchange and placement opportunities available to PolyU students; Design Exhibition, which showcases the creative works of the Design students; and visit to the House of Innovation, where many PolyU's exceptional research projects are displayed. In addition, participants can have a preview of the Herbal Dispensary which will be officially open in 2008. PolyU Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme will also be introduced.
Staged as a core celebratory activity of the University's 70th anniversary, the PolyU Education Info Weekend is expected to attract a large number of visitors. The event is open from 9:30am to 6:00pm on Saturday and 9:30am to 5:00pm on Sunday. For more details on the PolyU Education Info Weekend, please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday.Press Invitation 
Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Weekend: Date : 6 &amp; 7 October (Saturday &amp; Sunday) Time : (Sat) 9.30 am - 6 pm; (Sun) 9:30 am -5 pmVenue : PolyU Campus 
