
[date]2007.09.27[/date]
[title]PolyU cultivates students’ global outlook through exchange programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is holding a series of student activities on campus between 27 September and 3 October to promote its student exchange programme, in which students can study overseas to enhance cultural exchange and broaden their global outlook. 
The event, 'Global Citizens with a Global Outlook', was kicked off yesterday (27 September) at an opening ceremony officiated by PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Prof. Suleyman Demokan, together with Consuls General and Consular Officials from the consulates of Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, the UK and the USA.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Demokan said, 'PolyU is committed to nurturing the all-round development of students and places strong emphasis on internationalization.' He further added that many of the students who have participated in previous exchange programmes found the experience a very rewarding and unforgettable one. 'There are tremendous benefits brought by the exchange programme to areas including cultural exposure, friendship building, language proficiency, personal growth, and many others,' he remarked.
Organized by PolyU's Academic Exchange and Collaboration Office, the event comprises a variety of activities, including a roadshow of the exchange opportunities at PolyU's partner institutions in 24 countries, cultural performances, games and an international cultural night which will be held at the Student Halls of Residence on 3 October for both local and non-local students to get together and share the cultures of different countries.
This year, the University targets to send forth 550 local students abroad for exchange and receive a similar number of international students on campus. In the first semester so far, more than 280 students from 20 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the USA, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange. A significant increase in the number of exchange students has been recorded since the programme was first launched in 2001 when the figures of inbound and outbound students were 40 and 60 respectively.
In addition to expanding its student exchange programme, the University also strives to achieve internationalization through the recruitment of non-local students. This year, PolyU has admitted 271 students from the Chinese mainland and 15 from eight other countries, as compared to 250 from the mainland and 13 from overseas last year. They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different application-oriented programmes offered by the University. 
Currently, there are 1,216 non-local students from the Chinese mainland and 30 overseas countries and territories pursuing studies in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at PolyU. It is the University's belief that the interaction between local and non-local students will bring an important and enriching dimension to campus life and help cultivate the students' global outlook.
