
[date]2007.06.22[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes international fashion exhibition[/title]
More than 80 creative costumes made by budding young fashion designers and scholars from Asia and North America are showcased at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Jockey Club Auditorium. An opening ceremony was held yesterday (22 June) on the University campus to kick off its first of its kind exhibition in the territory.
The Fashion Exhibition, with a theme of 'World Fashion Asia', is co-organized by PolyU's Institute of Textiles &amp; Clothing (ITC) and the Korean Society of Fashion Business. Officiated at the ceremony was Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Chair Prof. and Head of ITC.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Prof. Tao said, 'It is a rare chance that we can display the flair and innovative costumes made by scholars and postgraduate fashion design students from different parts of the world. The works, which have been selected by external qualified design professionals and academics, reflect designer's spirit and cultural background.'
The exhibition is now open for public from 22 to 24 June at Foyer of PolyU's Jockey Club Auditorium.
Besides, a symposium with the theme of 'Contemporary issues affecting the East Asian Fashion' was also held. More than 100 fashion industrialists and scholars were attracted to exchange their views on current issues in the fashion and textile industries.
Speakers who are prominent academics from Hong Kong and Korea shared their ideas and experience at the Symposium. Prof. Edward Newton, Visiting Chair Professor of Fashion Design of ITC, spoke on 'Evolution in the East: The New Frontiers of Fashion &amp; Textiles'. Dr Park Hye-won, Associate Professor of Department of Clothing and Textiles of Changwon National University of Korea, delivered a talk on 'Design and development of the dementia patients' clothing-from textile to clothing'.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities and this year the Institute is also celebrating its 50th anniversary.
