
[date]2007.09.18[/date]
[title]Three Nobel Laureates host forum at PolyU[/title]
Three Nobel Laureates in Economics, Professor Robert Mundell (1999 winner), Professor Thomas Schelling (2005 winner) and Professor Edmund Phelps (2006 winner), were speakers at a forum at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (18 September) on the theme of 'China and the World Economy: Currency, Trade and Sustainability Issues'. Organised by PolyU Graduate School of Business (GSB), the Forum was attended by about 500 academics, postgraduate students and business and community leaders.
Professor K.C. Chan, Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury of the Hong Kong SAR Government, opened the Forum, together with Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, PolyU Council Chairman and Professor Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President. The Forum was organised as one of the major celebratory events of PolyU's 70th anniversary. Addressing the ceremony, Mr Lo welcomed the three world-class economists and said, 'Our audience, most of them CEOs and business leaders from our DBA programme, are indeed privileged to be able to benefit from the speakers' insights at a time characterized by challenges and opportunities.'
Professor Poon thanked the three world renowned scholars for their penetrating analyses on the latest economic issues, in particular those relating to China, a rising economy that not only impacts directly on one-fifth of the world's population but also affects the world economy in this era of increasing global connectivity, integration and interdependence. He also thanked the newly appointed Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury Professor K.C. Chan for gracing the Forum with his presence.
At the Forum, Professor Mundell spoke on Renminbi and currency cooperation in Asia; Professor Schelling shared his views on energy, environment and sustainability issues; and Professor Phelps focused on trade, capital and the world economy. In the discussion session, Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU's Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business, and Professor Ferdinand A. Gul, Programme Director of DBA facilitated a sparkling dialogue between the three economists and the audience.
Prof Tsui said, 'I am very pleased to have co-chaired such an interactive and inspiring forum. The three distinguished economists have not only given our audience and students academic insights, but also enlightened us on various Real World issues concerning China and the world economy.'
Professor Robert Mundell has been Professor of Economics at Columbia University over the past 30 years. The author of numerous works and articles on economic theory of international economics, he prepared one of the first plans for common currency in Europe and is known as the father of euro. Professor Mundell formulated what became a standard international macroeconomics model, and has pioneered the theory of the monetary and fiscal policy mix, of inflation and interest, and the monetary approach to the balance of payments. In 1999, he received the Nobel Prize in Economics for his works on optimum currency areas and the development of the international macroeconomic model.
Professor Thomas Schelling is a Distinguished Professor at the Department of Economics and School of Public Policy, University of Maryland, where he continues his study in nuclear weapons policy, climate change, commitment, and terrorism. His work in game theory analysis has enhanced people's understanding of conflict and cooperation. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2005. Professor Schelling has produced numerous influential publications, including 'The Strategy of Conflict' and 'Surprise Attack and Disarmament'.
Professor Edmund Phelps is the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia University. He is well known for the idea of the Golden Rule savings rate, which is the optimal savings rate to maximise consumption in the economy, representing an essential indicator for policy-makers to observe the savings amount of the economy. Professor Phelps introduced expectations-based microfoundations into the theory of employment determination and price-wage dynamics, leading to his theory of the natural unemployment rate.  He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2006.
