
[date]2007.09.06[/date]
[title]PolyU to stage record-breaking “Flags of Harmony and Unity”[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will make a record-breaking attempt of forming the world's largest national and SAR flag with more than 20,000 students, staff, alumni and their friends and families as well as scouts and other supporting organizations. Entitled 'Flags of Harmony and Unity', this event will be held on 23 September (Sunday) at the Siu Sai Wan Sports Ground.
Speaking at a press briefing, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said this is largest event in celebration of PolyU's 70th Anniversary and an Accredited Event celebrating HKSAR's 10th Anniversary. Mr Michael Suen Ming-yeung, Secretary for Education of the SAR Government, has kindly agreed to be the Guest of Honour for this memorable occasion.
'This event is co-organized with the Scout Association of Hong Kong and supported by more than 30 sponsors (list attached).It will once again demonstrate the unity and vitality of the PolyU community and raise fund for the University and charity,' he said.  
Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang added that PolyU, being the territory's largest publicly-funded tertiary institution in terms of student enrolment, has a proud history of showing its solidarity. Five years ago, the University also brought together 11,273 participants to form the world's largest Human Rainbow in celebration of its 65th anniversary. 
Dr Lam Tai-fai, Chairman of the Organising Committee, said, 'We are grateful for the generous support from our sponsors, many of them are alumni and close partners of our university. The success of the event depends greatly on their contribution.' Dr Lam was also a recipient of the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award in 2001.
On the event day, 20,000 participants will be standing closely together on the grass pitch and holding up coloured boards to form the image of the national flag, and then form the image of SAR flag by flipping over their boards. Each participant will therefore play an equally important part in the process. 
The fun-filled event will also feature exciting entertainment programme, including performances by many Canton pop singers, PolyU alumni and Student Taekwondo Club. Disc jockeys from Metro Radio will serve as the Master of Ceremonies.
The net proceeds of this event will support university education, education for poor children on the Chinese mainland and services of the Senior Citizen Home Safety Association in Hong Kong. Each participant is therefore encouraged to donate or raise a donation of HK$200 for supporting these worthy causes.
