
[date]2007.09.20[/date]
[title]PolyU dedicates Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (20 September) named the Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory of its School of Nursing after The Yuen Yuen Institute, to acknowledge its support and donations of $3 million to the University.During the naming ceremony, a commemorative plaque was unveiled by Mr Tang Kam Hung, Vice-Chairman of The Yuen Yuen Institute; Mr Henry Tong Sau Chai, Director of The Yuen Yuen Institute; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Prof. Samantha Pang, Head, School of Nursing, PolyU.Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'PolyU is thankful to receive this generous donation from The Yuen Yuen Institute. This donated sum has given a fresh impetus to the University's continuous effort in developing nursing education and research, as well as integrating Eastern and Western therapeutic strategies in nurturing professional nurses. Today's naming of the Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory after The Yuen Yuen Institute not only represents our heartiest gratitude to the Institute, but also signifies the beginning of a series of constructive collaboration between the two parties.'  'Chinese Medicine is part of the Chinese culture which has always been misapprehended as non-scientific. The Yuen Yuen Institute appreciates PolyU's effort in promoting therapeutics in Traditional Chinese Medicine. In relation, we decided to make a contribution to the development of the University's Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory as well as other initiatives in fostering Chinese Medicine. By this, we hope to do our part in introducing Chinese heritage to youngsters and, in turn, strengthening their bond to the motherland,' remarked Mr Tang Kam Hung.The donation will support the enhancement of the bachelor and master degree programmes as well as upgrading teaching facilities and developing software of the PolyU's School of Nursing. In addition, the donated sum will be utilized in the exploration and launching of a minor programme in Traditional Chinese Medicine for nursing and non-nursing students. PolyU's School of Nursing and The Yuen Yuen Institute have many other collaboration projects under planning. They include the provision of training grounds for nursing students in the Institute's aged homes and joint venture of community service projects. The School of Nursing also provides advisory and consultancy roles on nursing services and elderly healthcare for the Institute.The Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory is equipped with high-tech equipment such as the Pulse Collector and Multi-media Acupuncture Model to help students understand and practise Chinese medicinal nursing and treatment according to differentiation of syndromes. For more than half a century, The Yuen Yuen Institute has been serving the community in many ways, including the setting up of schools, aged homes and clinical centres, as well as engagement in cultural development projects.    
