
[date]2007.04.26[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 4th Asia Cornea and Contact Lens Conference[/title]
More than 230 participants from 12 countries and territories have been drawn to the fourth Asia Cornea and Contact Lens Conference, which is being held on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 26 to 27 April.
This conference is organized by the Hong Kong Society of Professional Optometrics and co-hosted by the Eye Foundation, the Hong Kong Association of Private Practice Optometrists, the Hong Kong Contact Lens Research Association, and PolyU's School of Optometry (SO). It was opened yesterday (26 April) by Prof. Leung Nai-kong, Chairman of the Supplementary Medical Professions Council; and Ms Rufina Chan, Chairman of the Hong Kong Society of Professional Optometrists and Organizing Committee Chair.
Organized with the objective of advancing contact lens practice, the conference has brought together many leading optometry experts to present their latest research findings. It also provides a forum for clinicians, practitioners, academics and researchers to keep abreast of updated knowledge in this discipline.
During the two-day event, four PolyU scholars in the fields of optometry and biomedical sciences will present their latest research findings, including a study on anti-oxidant and the prevention of dry eyes among the elderly; the cleaning of soft lenses and care of lens cases; and corneal measurement with contemporary technologies.
This study on dry eye syndrome was done by SO Research Fellow Dr Camus Choy Kar-man in collaboration with his colleague Associate Professor Dr Pauline Cho and Prof. Iris Benzie of the Department of Health Technology and Informatics (HTI). The study compared the amount of anti-oxidant supply through tear fluid to eyeball surface. Tear samples were collected from 120 healthy young and elderly subjects and analyzed for their total anti-oxidant content. The study found that the levels of some antioxidants in human eyes were significantly lower among elderly subjects.
As the dry eye syndrome is mostly associated with ageing, the study concluded that elderly people should take in more anti-oxidants by eating more fruits and vegetables of different colours in their daily diet. They should also visit a professional optometrist for a thorough examination of their eyes at least once a year.
Another major highlight of this year's conference is a pioneering study on the long-term effect of Orthokeratology (Ortho-K), or the technique of reshaping the cornea using specially made contact lenses, on myopia reduction by Prof. Xie Peiying of Peking University's Optometry and Ophthalmology Centre. The three-year study found that most wearers of Ortho-K lenses did not develop any ocular complications and had achieved stable myopia reduction during the study. The measurement of cornea is also a topic of interest to the participants, and SO Associate Professor Dr Andrew Lam will deliver a keynote lecture on 'Corneal Measurement with Contemporary Technologies'. He will review existing technologies which are being used for the assessment of corneal shape, aberration and biomechanical properties.
PolyU experts will also offer their professional opinion on the cleaning of contact lens during the conference. In her recent study on the cleaning of soft contact lens, Dr Pauline Cho has found that cleaning lenses without rubbing only got rid of less than 20 per cent of surface deposits; whereas rubbing the lenses could remove more than 80 per cent of the deposits on the lens surfaces. Moreover, rinsing the lenses without rubbing did not significantly affect the amount of deposits on the lens surfaces.
During the second day of the conference, HTI Associate Professor Dr Maureen Boost will present the findings of her pilot study on the importance of drying in care of lens case. Her study found that rinsing or rubbing lens cases without drying was ineffective, and this allowed survival of micro-organisms.
