
[date]2007.03.23[/date]
[title]PolyU dedicates classrooms to Toys Manufacturers’ Association[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (23 March) named seven classrooms after six member companies and a partner of the Toys Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong (TMHK) to acknowledge their donations totalling      $2.52 million to the University. Hosted by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development), the naming ceremony was officiated at by representatives from the seven donors:• Mr Samson Chan Ming-yiu, TMHK President, and Chairman and CEO of Manley Toys Limited; • Dr Lewis Luk Tei, Trustee of Dr Luk Chung Lam Foundation (a partner organization of TMHK); • Mr Tony Wu Kam-bun, Chairman of Smart Union Group (Holdings) Limited. • Dr Danny Ngai Kam-fai, President of Artin International Limited;• Mrs Jenny Chang Leung Woon-chun, Chairman of Sun Shine Toys Limited; • Mr Poon Siu-chung, Chairman &amp; Managing Director of Perfectech International Holdings Limited; and• Mr Raymond Chan Wing-kie, Vice Chairman of Wynnewood Corporation Limited. During the ceremony, Prof. Poon extended grateful thanks to TMHK and all donors, saying: 'PolyU has long enjoyed close and mutually beneficial links with the Association over the years. We share TMHK's vision to promote innovation in the toy industry and to contribute to the development of the Hong Kong economy.  'It is most encouraging that as PolyU celebrate our 70th Anniversary this year, we are also receiving such substantial support from TMHK members and its partner. With their benefaction, we will be better able to nurture talents and bolster research and development relevant to the needs of the community.' Back in January 1999, PolyU and TMHK entered into an agreement, under which the Association and its members committed a total of more than $1 million in the form of donation and service fees for the PolyU's Rapid Product Development Syndicate (RAPRODS) and the PolyU Technology and Consultancy Company Limited (PTeC). An 'Innovative Toy Products Development Centre' was then established in RAPRODS in support of the toy industry and TMHK members. Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), said: 'The Centre, to be shortly relocated to the 7th floor of the Shirley Chan Building, is set to introduce new services. It will continue to offer professional training for budding toy designers and to further the development of the toy industry.' In addition, to identify new design talents and to stimulate creativity in designing toys, PolyU and TMHK have been joining forces to organize the bi-annual 'Hong Kong Toy Design Competition' since 1999. Established in 1996, the Toys Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong is a non-profit making organization which is dedicated to promoting the development of Hong Kong's toy industry and the interests of Hong Kong toy manufacturers. The association has over 250 members who are mainly Hong Kong toy manufacturers with factories on the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong.   
