
[date]2007.06.11[/date]
[title]Government established $4 Million Maritime Scholarship at PolyU[/title]
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has set up a HK$4 Million Hong Kong Maritime Scholarship at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to support students enrolled in the full-time stream of MSc in International Shipping and Transport Logistics (MScISTL) programme offered by PolyU Graduate School of Business (GSB). The Scholarship aims to nurture talents and meet the manpower need in the Hong Kong maritime industry.
In the Scholarship Agreement Signing Ceremony held today (11 June), Prof. Suleyman Demokan, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) and Ms Eva Cheng, Permanent Secretary for Economic Development and Labour (Economic Development) of HKSARG, signed the collaboration agreement in the witness of Prof. Judy Tsui, Director of PolyU Graduate School of Business, and Ms Janice Tse, Deputy Secretary for Economic Development and Labour (Economic Development) of HKSARG.
The Scholarship will be used to sponsor a maximum of 10 students in the 2007/08 academic year to cover their tuition fees for the MScISTL programme. Recipients of the Scholarship will also be granted living allowance. All local and Chinese mainland university graduates of relevant disciplines are eligible to apply. The Scholarship recipients must commit to working full-time in the local maritime industry for at least one year upon graduation.
Prof. Suleyman Demokan was pleased to see the Government put in resources to train talents in the maritime and logistics industry. He said, 'Although the local maritime industry is developing at a very fast pace, there is a shortage of experienced professionals in the maritime industry. This Scholarship scheme will no doubt attract relevant university graduates from Hong Kong and the Mainland to further their studies and enhance their skills, and thereby contribute to the development of Hong Kong. PolyU is honoured to have the support from the Government to set up this Scholarship scheme.'
Prof. Judy Tsui welcomed the Government's collaboration with PolyU in offering the Scholarship. She remarked, 'PolyU Graduate School of Business has put in great efforts to nurture shipping and logistics professionals. Earlier this year, our Department of Logistics was named one of the Best Ten Universities in Logistics in China for the Year 2006. We are committed to educating high quality talents to further enhance the status of maritime industry in Hong Kong and the Mainland.'
The full-time stream of MScISTL is a two-year programme for training up professionals in shipping and logistics related sectors. The programme embodies a sound balance between academic theory and professional practice, with internship in maritime-related organisations being a required component of the curriculum. The programme covers not only maritime knowledge, but also practical subjects such as port policy and management, shipping law, and marine insurance.
For details of the Scholarship and the programme, please visit GSB's website www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb or telephone 2766 7409.
