
[date]2007.05.03[/date]
[title]Secondary students welcome to join summer camp at PolyU[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is organising a summer camp from 26 to 29 July on campus for local secondary school students. Enrolment to the camp will close on 31 May.
This four-day-three-night summer camp, organised for the fifth year, is specially designed for secondary six students, while secondary four and five students are also welcome to join should places be available. It aims to provide secondary students with an opportunity to experience university life, and through the full-filled activities, to develop their communication and leadership skills, and to help them build confidence, as well as to arouse their care and concern for the community. Accommodation will be arranged at PolyU Students Halls of Residence.
Details of the camp and its application form are now available at www.polyu.edu.hk/as/summercamp07.
Apart from the camp, a series of lectures will also be arranged for secondary students in  May. PolyU's academic staff will deliver mini lectures at participating schools on a wide range of interesting topics covering environmental protection, medicine and healthcare, astronomy and physics, building and real estates, innovative technology and tourism, to name just a few. 
Other interesting activities include campus visits to enhance secondary six and seven students' understanding of PolyU and ultimately help them to decide on their future choices of universities. The visits, to be arranged on Saturdays during May to November, will enable students to take a close and in-depth look at PolyU's facilities and all other advanced provisions of its various disciplines. 
Details and application form for the Programme are available at www.polyu.edu.hk/schoolcorner-activities. 
Please contact Ms Sharon Tse at 2766-5141 for enquiries of the summer camp, and Miss Ada Poon at 2766-5135 for the visit lectures and campus visits.
Places of the activities are given on a first-come-first-served basis. Please act now to earn unforgettable experience with PolyU.
