
[date]2007.04.19[/date]
[title]PolyU to host international conference on evidence-based practice in nursing[/title]
Nearly 350 local and overseas participants from some 15 countries and territories will gather at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 19 to 21 April, to attend the international conference entitled 'Evidence-Based Practice in Nursing: Paradigms and Dialogue'.
Evidence-Based Practice (EBP) is considered one of the most cost-effective ways to provide good care to patients, focusing on assessing clinical effectiveness. It originates in the work of the Royal College of Nursing in the United Kingdom in 1960s and today has had great impact on health care globally. The three-day conference, hosted by the Pi Iota Chapter, Honor Society of Nursing, Sigma Theta Tau International (STTI) under PolyU's School of Nursing, will bring together local and international professionals in the field of EBP to discuss and further examine related issues. Themes cover advancing nursing practice through EBP; transferring EBP into clinical practice; EBP and clinical decision-making and nursing education; quality of care and policy issues of EBP.
The conference serves as a valuable forum for participants to share new technologies, new ideas and experiences in the fields, which will advance the frontiers of professionals and strengthen the nursing science, and ultimately enhance the quality of life and the well-being of the world at large.
The eight key-note speakers of the conference include Dr Sophia Chan, Head of the Department of Nursing Studies and Assistant Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, the University of Hong Kong; Dr the Hon. Joseph Lee, Programme Leader of Nursing, School of Science and Technology, The Open University of Hong Kong; Prof. Samantha Pang, Head of the School of Nursing, PolyU; Prof. David Thompson, Director of the Nethersole School of Nursing, the Chinese University of Hong Kong; and renowned scholars from the United States, United Kingdom and Canada, etc.
In addition to the key-note presentations, free paper presentations, round table discussions and workshops will also be held to facilitate exchange of views among participants; and professional visits to local hospitals and medical units will also be arranged on the last day of the conference.
The event is co-organised with the University of Hong Kong, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and the Open University of Hong Kong.
Pi Iota Chapter is the first and only Hong Kong Chapter of the Honor society of Nursing, STTI. It was chartered on 18 March 2000, but has its origins in the Honor Society of Nursing founded at PolyU on 8 October 1997. Founded in 1922 at the Indiana University School of Nursing, STTI aims to create a global community of nurse leaders that use scholarship, knowledge and technology in order to improve the health of the world's people. STTI currently has an active membership of 125,000 in 446 chapters spread across 19 countries.
