
[date]2007.05.03[/date]
[title]SPEED organized Hong Kong&amp;#39;s first business proposal writing competition[/title]
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and EDUplus of Sing Tao News Corporation recently co-organized the Business Innovation Awards 2007, Hong Kong's first business proposal writing competition held specifically for Higher Diploma and Associate Degree students. 
Sponsored by the Education and Manpower Bureau and Centaline Property Agency Limited, this competition provided an opportunity for contestants to contribute innovative ideas on improving the recreational value of the Whitehead Club, and positioning it as an environmental-friendly yet affordable recreation centre for families.
The Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards of the competition went to the 'Intellects' team of Hong Kong College of Technology; 'SCS-HRM' team of School of Continuing and Professional Studies, The Chinese University of Hong Kong; and 'Paradise Workshop' team of the Hong Kong College of Technology respectively. The Gold Award included $15,000 cash prize for the winning team, plus SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $15,000 for each team member. The Silver Award included $10,000 cash prize for the team and SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $10,000 for each team member while the Bronze Award consisted of $5,000 cash prize for the team and SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $5,000 for each team member. The team 'Paradise Workshop' also won The Chartered Institute of Marketing Award which was sponsored by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (Hong Kong) (CIM) and received $5,000 cash prize.
Mr Rupert Leung, Acting Director of SPEED, remarked, 'There is no better way for students to have a taste in the competitive business world than to experience it by themselves. This is why SPEED initiated this competition which created a platform for students to apply their knowledge and demonstrate their business sense and creativity.'
Based on the contesting teams' written business plans and presentation, the judging panel comprising of academic and industry professionals selected the winners of Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards as well as the CIM Marketing Award. The panel of judges highly commended the creativeness of the contestants as well as their persuasive presentation. The assessment criteria included creativity, presentation and writing skills, comprehensiveness, viability and practicality of the business proposals. 
Established in 1999, SPEED spearheads lifelong learning in Hong Kong by offering short courses and programmes ranging from pre-associate degree to master levels leading to PolyU SPEED awards or overseas academic awards. SPEED currently offers 22 award-bearing programmes with student enrolments of over 3,000.
