
[date]2007.12.10[/date]
[title]Institute of Textiles and Clothing celebrates Golden Jubilee[/title]
The Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (10 December) celebrated its 50th Anniversary at a Gala Dinner held in the Grand Hall of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Dr Chan Sui-kau, Chairman of Yangtzekiang Company Ltd, was the Guest of Honour.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Tao Xiao-ming, Head of ITC, expressed sincere gratitude to the support of the industry and government over the decades. She also called upon staff, alumni and students to make concerted efforts in further developing this unique discipline of PolyU in the years ahead.
The joyous event was kicked off with a toasting by Dr Chan; Dr Kenneth Fang, Chairman of ITC Advisory Committee, and other VIPs. They included Mr Li Ning, Deputy Director General of Education, Science and Technology Department of the Central Government's Liaison Office in Hong Kong; Prof. Suleyman Demokan, PolyU Vice President and several many former heads of ITC.
Miss Tracy Ip, an alumnus of ITC and Miss Hong Kong 2005, also rendered her support to the alma mater by serving as a Master of Ceremony for this memorable occasion, together with artist Mr Vincci Wong.
To add colour to this event, ITC students staged a performance entitled 'East Meets West', featuring Hip-hop dance mixes up with traditional Chinese opera. Another major highlight of the event was a Mini-Fashion Show by 13 recent graduates of ITC. More than 50 outfits were shown during the show.
ITC has come a long way since its establishment in 1957 as the former Department of Textile Industries in the Hong Kong Technical College, the forerunner of PolyU.
Over the years, ITC has been the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textile in Hong Kong.  Apart from offering a wide range of academic programmes which meet industrial, commercial and community needs, ITC researchers are also staying at the forefront of conducting applied researches for the industry.
When Chinese Vice President Zeng Qinghong visited PolyU in September 2005, he was shown by ITC researchers the world's first "sweating" manikin which can simulate human thermal physiology, and briefed on the groundbreaking use of nanotechnology for the garment and textile industry. Mr Zeng also highly commended PolyU's achievements in applied technology, and encouraged the Institution to make further contributions.In 2005, the Innovation and Technology Commission of the HKSAR Government designated our ITC as the focus area for establishing the first Research and Development Centre for Textile and Clothing in Hong Kong. Set up to facilitate research and development on textile-and-clothing-related technologies, the Centre is dedicated to promoting Hong Kong as a world-class fashion and textiles hub.
Within the same year, ITC also established the Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel, which is the first of its kind in the Asia Pacific Region, with generous support from industrialist Mr Andrew Sia and his wife, Founders of Ace Style Group. ITC is offering a wide range of unique programmes from the Higher Diploma to Degree and PhD level, covering the specialisms of fashion design, fashion supply chain management, intimate apparel, merchandising and textile studies,
