
[date]2008.07.03[/date]
[title]PolyU rolls out summer activities for secondary school students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is rolling out a series of fun-filled, yet educational activities for secondary school students, allowing them to experience university life at PolyU during the summer holidays. 
Introducing this year's activities, Mrs Agnes Kan, Assistant Academic Secretary, said, 'The PolyU summer camps have received favourable feedback since its launch in 2004. As the 2008 Beijing Olympics is approaching, we specially design this year's summer day camp, pulling the efforts of various academic departments, with an aim to promote a healthy and quality life style.'
Themed 'Healthy and Quality Life Style', the three-day summer day camp is tailored for secondary four to six students.  Training workshops, demonstrations and laboratory experiments will be arranged, covering a wide range of topics including 'Introduction of Healthy Life Style', 'Having Comfort and Fun at Home with IT', 'The Beauty of Serving Others', 'Living in Creativity', to name but a few. 
Other interesting activities during the summer include an innovative camp and a workshop to be organised by the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles. Titled 'A Touch of Science &amp; Textiles', the programme will encourage students to explore the multi-facets of science. Another four-day-three-night summer camp will be run by the Faculty of Business which helps students build up their leadership and business skills.
Secondary one to three students who are keen to learn more about university life will have the opportunity to get a taste of it this summer. A one-day activity entitled 'A First Taste of University Life' will be held in early August. On a guided tour around the campus, students will visit the University's library and Student Halls of Residence. Moreover, students will have a chance to interact with the PolyU Student Ambassadors. 
This year, parents are also welcome to join a sharing session to be organised by the Department of Applied Social Sciences (APSS). Dr William Chu of APSS, an expert in family counselling, will explore the changing role of parents in supporting their children who will soon enter universities. Current PolyU students and their parents will share their real life experience with the participants during the session.
A list of PolyU summer activities is as follows:
  
 
PolyU Summer Activities
 11 July
  'When Our Children Go To Universities...' Sharing Session
 16-18 July
  A Touch of Science &amp; Textiles: Summer Camp
 21-24 July
  PolyU Summer Business Camp 2008
 22-25 July 
  A Touch of Science &amp; Textiles: Workshop
 28-30 July
  PolyU Summer Day Camp
 5, 6, 7 August
  A First Taste of University LifePlaces of the activities will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis. Interested students, school teachers and parents are welcome to enrol before application closes on 11 July. 
For the latest information and enrolment details, please visit the following website: www.polyu.edu.hk/schoolcorner-activities. 
