
[date]2008.05.07[/date]
[title]HKCC Putonghua Training Programme for Student Tourism Ambassadors[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) has organized the 'Putonghua Training Programme for Student Tourism Ambassadors' for secondary school students, to echo SCOLAR's initiative to promote Putonghua. Through interesting extra-curricular activities, this Programme encourages the use of Putonghua among secondary school students. The Programme is also strongly supported by the Hong Kong Tourism Board, Avenue of Stars and Hong Kong Association for the Promotion of Pinyin Quality Education. 
Out of the 280 students from 40 secondary schools participating in the Programme, eight outstanding student teams have been selected to take part in the achievement exhibition held at the Avenue of Stars on 7-12 May. The exhibition was officially opened yesterday (7 May) by Mr Michael Tien, Chairman of SCOLAR; Dr Simon Leung, Director of the HKCC; and the representatives of the Programme's supporting organizations. After the ceremony, the student tourism ambassadors introduced Hong Kong culture and scenic spots to tourists in Putonghua.
Speaking at the ceremony, Dr Simon Leung said, 'In view of the fast-developing tourism industry in Hong Kong, HKCC has specially organized this Programme for secondary school students, which brings together the learning of Putonghua and the training to become tourism ambassadors. We think that it is an innovative way of education and training.'
The Programme runs from November last year to this August, consisting of workshops on Putonghua speaking skills, tourism subject studies, field trips, a large-scale outdoor exhibition, a final presentation and a sharing session. 
Over 10 HKCC's lecturers teaching Putonghua and Tourism and more than 60 students engaged in the studies of Bilingual Communication and Tourism and Hospitality Management actively supported the Programme. Workshops on 'Putonghua speaking techniques' conducted by experienced Putonghua tutors have been organized. In addition, experts from the local tourism industry hosted subject talks on topics including: Birth and Early Growth of Hong Kong; Culture and Language of Indigenous Residents; Local Temples and Belief in Gods; and Heritage Conservation and Culture. Field trips to relevant historical sites, including the Tai Fu Tai Mansion in San Tin; Ping Shan Heritage Trails; Wong Tai Sin Temple; Chi Lin Nunnery; and Murray House in Stanley, were also arranged to complement the talks. In addition, the outstanding student teams will take part in a final presentation and a sharing session to be held in mid-May. 
HKCC is committed to providing quality associate degree programmes which aim at all-rounded development of students. In the new academic year, the College will offer 31 associate degree programmes covering a spectrum of arts, science, social sciences, business, design and specialized subjects. To sharpen associate degree students' language skills, HKCC regularly organizes Putonghua and English Enhancement Programmes consisting of language workshops, speech and conversation training, and cultural exchange tours to the Mainland and overseas countries.  
