
[date]2007.12.24[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts conference on personal and hospital healthcare advancement[/title]
About 80 delegates from the public and private healthcare sectors participated in the Innovating Future Healthcare Conference and Collaboration Meeting held on PolyU campus on 20 December 2007. The event was organized by PolyU's Research Institute of Innovative Products and Technologies (RIIPT) and co-sponsored by various organizations including the Hospital Authority, the Biomedical Division of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Optometry, Department of Health Technology &amp; Informatics and School of Nursing of PolyU.
Ir Prof. Ko Jan-ming, Vice President (Academic Staffing and Resources), PolyU and Dr Liu Shao-haei, Chief Manager (Infection, Emergency, Contingency), Quality and Safety Division, Hospital Authority officiated the opening ceremony of the Conference. 
This year, the theme of the Conference is Personal and Hospital Healthcare. Experts and academic professionals from the medical and healthcare fields gathered to share with Conference delegates the latest developments and technologies in personal and hospital healthcare services. The topics on Personal Healthcare covered Telecare, Technology for Healthy Life, 10-year clinical experience in Diabetic Foot Treatment, Myopia Care and Dynamic Brace &amp; Digitally Encoded Ultrasound for healing Colles' Fracture. As for the area of Hospital Healthcare, the speakers shared insights on Proteomic Platform for Disease Biomarker Discovery, IT System Enhancing Safety in Hospital, PACS-based CAD, Image Based Biomedical Systems Modelling and the Future of IT in the Hospital Authority.    
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the Conference, Ir Prof. Ko said, 'Hong Kong has to address the changing healthcare needs arising from its aging population and the emergence of critical diseases. This Conference serves as a platform to foster interdisciplinary partnerships in developing healthcare-related technologies and value added products.' Dr Liu echoed by emphasising the importance of multi-sectors collaborative efforts in designing modernised patient-related systems for the benefits of the community at large.
The Conference was followed by a Healthcare Collaboration Meeting which was attended by nearly 60 delegates from government bodies, healthcare sectors, as well as representatives from healthcare supply and medical device companies. Professor Wallace Leung, RIIPT Director, gave a brief introduction of the Institute.  This is followed by a presentation of five on-going projects, namely Clinical Decision Support System, Batear, Intention-driven Rehabilitation Robotic System, Drug Release &amp; Smart Therapy and Efficient Drug Dispensary System. The audience were interested in the projects and, in particular, the Batear and Smart Therapy which will be released next year.  The meeting provided an excellent opportunity for participants to communicate and exchange on their mutual interests for possible partnerships in the healthcare industry.  
RIIPT Director Prof. Wallace Leung further remarked, 'Under the close collaboration with PolyU departments, the Institute has been actively facilitating companies and PolyU in the realisation of customised healthcare products and product-enabled services in an effective and efficient way.' 
