
[date]2008.04.22[/date]
[title]PolyU grooms future entrepreneurs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) awarded nine winning teams of the PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest 2007/08 during yesterday's (22 April) awards presentation ceremony on campus. This competition, running for the seventh year, provides a platform for full-time PolyU students to formulate their creative ideas in developing sound business ventures.  
PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing said, 'I am pleased to see the rising number of participants from the past years. This contest has been held with an aim to foster entrepreneurship spirit among the younger generation and prepare youngsters for the ever-changing and highly competitive real business world.  We want to express our heartfelt thanks to IDT International Limited for its generous sponsorship of this competition in the past seven years.'
This year, 47 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of 150 students participated in devising innovative ideas on products, management and or services. Twenty-two qualifying teams were chosen to enter Round II with three teams competing in the Final Round, in which they presented their business proposals in details to the panel of judges, comprising of Dr Raymond Chan, CEO &amp; Chairman of IDT International Ltd., Mr Mathew Lun, Secretary General of Hong Kong Economic and Trade Association and Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), PolyU.  
The contestants were required to formulate their business plans under the guidance of an academic advisor.  Training workshops of relevant topics such as 'Marketing Research and Planning', 'Business Plan Writing Skills', 'Financial Planning for Business Plan', 'Presentation Skills' and 'Self-enhancement' were provided to the contesting students free of charge.   
Diamond, Platinum and Gold prizes were awarded basing on the following five judging criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technology novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/ development plan and presentation skills.  Diamond, Platinum and Gold awards winning teams received a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000 respectively while other three first and second runners-up received the Excellence Awards of $5,000 and Merit Awards of $3,000 respectively.
The winning teams are as follows:
Diamond Award of Innovation: Legend CleanerStudent: Ho Mei-po, Joyce Lau Hiu-lok, Ng Wing-kiAdvisor: Dr Alan Lau Kin-tak, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Platinum Award of Innovation: H.K. (Happy Karaoke)Student: Leung Ka-yuen, Ngai Tsz-him, Wan Chi-ping, Wan Suet-yeeAdvisor: Ms Josephine Wong, Lecturer, School of Accounting &amp; Finance
Gold Award of Innovation: Active Trainer on LanguageStudent: Fung Tsz-yan, Lau On-tat, Lee Sik-yuAdvisor: Dr Alan Lau Kin-tak, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
