
[date]2008.03.27[/date]
[title]PolyU thanks donors for their support to students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a reception in its student hostels yesterday (27 March) to openly thank those benefactors who have rendered their generous support to PolyU students in the 2007/08 academic year. 
During the period, over 330 donors have generously made contributions to PolyU in the forms of scholarships, traveling scholarships, bursaries, education loans, emergency grants and loans, or sponsorships for students' participation in a wide variety of its activities. All these amount to over $52 million, benefiting about 5,400 PolyU students. In addition, PolyU has accumulated a donation sum of $28 million to its Student Development Fund since its establishment in 2002.
In addition to expressing his appreciation to donors, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong urged donors to give their continued support for the University's various initiatives in grooming the 'new generation of graduates' in light of the implementation of the new academic structure in 2012.
Addressing more than 70 benefactors at the reception, Prof. Poon said, 'For PolyU, the new academic structure will not only facilitate the articulation with the mainstream Mainland and overseas systems, but will also enable us to provide our students with a more comprehensive and all-round education.' 
He said that the main task of PolyU's curricular reform was to pursue integration across disciplines by the provision of double-degree programmes, and integration between theory and practice by arranging placements for the students. More overseas exchange or placement opportunities and a greater choice of minor subjects are two other initiatives to be put forward.
As a special token of appreciation to the donors, musical performance was staged by Miss Zhao Meng, a second-year student from the Department of Management and Marketing, during the ceremony, which was concluded with a vote of thanks by student representative Miss Chen Minjie, a third-year student from the Department of Logistics.
