
[date]2008.02.28[/date]
[title]PolyU and Royal Veterinary College join hands to launch Hong Kong’s first-ever programme in Veterinary Nursing[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with The Royal Veterinary College (RVC) of the University of London yesterday (28 February) that paves the way for the launch of Hong Kong's first-ever tertiary level programme in Veterinary Nursing, a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree programme in Veterinary Nursing to be offered in 2009. PolyU and RVC also plan to offer a credit-bearing foundation studies course in Veterinary Nursing later this year.
The MOU was signed by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU and the ex-Chairman of Veterinary Surgeons Board of Hong Kong, and Prof. Quintin McKellar, Principal of RVC. Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, and Prof. Colin Howard, Vice-Principal of RVC, also attended the ceremony to witness the signing.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon remarked, 'As Hong Kong society becomes more aware of the need to be compassionate about animals as fellow creatures and improve their welfare, there is a growing demand for manpower in veterinary nursing. The signing of this MOU will therefore pave the way for the launch of the territory's first recognised programme in Veterinary Nursing and mark a new direction in the development of animal health and welfare in Hong Kong.'
'As the oldest and largest independent veterinary school in the United Kingdom, we are proud of our overseas links. We live in a world of increasing awareness of the importance of animal welfare in the home, for food production and the environment. I congratulate PolyU for taking this initiative, which I am confident will be but a first step in Hong Kong taking the lead in Asia for advanced training in the paraveterinary professions,' said Prof. McKellar.
The planned BSc(Hons) degree programme in Veterinary Nursing will bring about an improvement and standardisation in the quality and provision of veterinary care available in the territory. The programme will introduce to Hong Kong the concept of professional veterinary nursing, which in other countries is a registered profession, as well as address the shortage of professional veterinary nurses in Hong Kong.
The foundation studies course is planned to be launched this September to introduce students to the basics of veterinary nursing. The subject-based, part-time course will consist of classroom learning as well as practicum in order to familiarise and equip students with the basic knowledge and skills required in the veterinary nursing field. The course will be led by academics of RVC in Hong Kong in collaboration with and support from PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences.
The four-year BSc(Hons) degree programme in Veterinary Nursing is slated to be launched in September 2009 and will be offered on a mixed-mode basis, providing maximum flexibility for working professionals to study. Teaching will be conducted by RVC and PolyU staff in Hong Kong. Students will engage in clinical training to consolidate their theoretical learning. Upon the collaboration parties' mutual agreement, it is planned that graduates will be jointly awarded a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Veterinary Nursing by PolyU and RVC. Students who have completed the foundation studies course and subsequently enrol in the degree programme may transfer their credits and hence may complete their degree studies sooner.
The tuition fee is HK$2,100 per credit for both the foundation studies course and the BSc(Hons) degree programme, each with an admission quota of 40 students.
Under the collaboration, FHSS and RVC will actively engage in academic exchange events such as seminars, workshops and visits, with the objective of developing different levels of academic programmes in the veterinary profession in the long run. The two partners will also formulate reciprocal student exchange programmes for the students of both institutions to enable them to gain a better understanding of the different veterinary clinical practices and related research in Hong Kong and the United Kingdom. In addition, professional accreditation opportunities will be explored by both parties.
For more information about the foundation studies course, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/fhss/.
 
