
[date]2008.05.21[/date]
[title]PolyU names building after Dr Yip Kit-chuen[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Council has officially named a building on campus after Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited, in recognition of Dr Yip's contribution to education and generous donation of more than $30 million in support of the University's development. 
A commemorative plaque marking the occasion was officially unveiled yesterday (21 May) at a special ceremony by Dr Yip; PolyU Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, and PolyU President Professor Poon Chung-kwong.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Lo expressed his gratitude to Dr Yip on behalf of the University Council. He said, 'Dr Yip is a generous supporter of education as he believes that the development of the country is inseparable from the nurturing of talents. 
'As a visionary entrepreneur, Dr Yip shares PolyU's commitment in grooming professional and management talents for the benefits of society and the country.'  
In addition, Prof. Poon said, 'PolyU will continue to make use of its strengths in education and research which emphasize on both application and innovation. We are determined to nurture professionals who will contribute to the development of Hong Kong and the country.'
Dr Yip is not only an outstanding entrepreneur, but also a pioneer in electrical household appliances. He founded the GEW Corporation Limited in 1963. With 'being sincere to people' and 'being diligent and thrifty' as motto in life, Dr Yip has since developed a bright career. The company now designs and manufactures its own brand and electrical household products, successfully opening up overseas markets.
Dr Yip has given support to PolyU in many ways, including being the supreme sponsor of the University's large-scale event 'Flags of Harmony and Unity', which was held in celebration of PolyU's 70th Anniversary and HKSAR's 10th Anniversary last year. More than 20,000 members of the University community, its supporters and scouts joined hands to form the  largest human national flag of the People's Republic of China and regional flag of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, which has been officially recognized as the world's largest by the Guinness World Records. In addition, GMP Electrical Appliances was the title sponsor of the University's Golf Tournament held last year, which had also helped raise funds in support of PolyU's long-term development and student development. 
Dr Yip also actively serves the community. The many public offices he held include Member of the National People's Congress Hong Kong Election Committee, Chairman of Mainland Affairs Committee of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, Honorary President of the Hong Kong Electrical Appliances Manufacturers Association, Director of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong and Director of the Hong Kong Safety Institute Ltd. Dr Yip's success story and contribution to society have also won him distinguished honours, including World Outstanding Chinese Award, Honorary Doctorate of Management of Armstrong University in the US, Honorary Citizen of Dongguan and Ningbo. 
