
[date]2008.03.18[/date]
[title]PolyU &amp; University of Texas at Dallas jointly organise Risk Management Forum[/title]
The Asia-Pacific Center for Corporate Governance Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Institute for Excellence in Corporate Governance of University of Texas at Dallas (UTD) jointly organised Risk Management Forum for Globally-Interconnected Enterprises on 15 March 2008 on PolyU campus. The Forum provided the participants with preferred approaches for deciding whether to accept or reject added risk within the context of their enterprises'  risk capacity.
About 100 company senior executives from various industry sectors attended the Forum, which consisted of two keynote speeches, a panel discussion session and a presentation session.
Mr Walter John Smiechewicz, a Risk Management Consultant and the former Senior Managing Director of Enterprise Risk Assessment of Countrywide Financial Corporation addressed the impact of risk on global strategy in his keynote speech. Prof. Constantine Konstans, Professor of Accounting and Information Management, and Executive Director of the Institute for Excellence in Corporate Governance, UTD hosted the panel discussion on 'Measurement and Reporting of Risk in Interconnected Organisations'. Ms Carol Luu, Partner of Enterprise Risk Services of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu gave a presentation on 'Enterprise Risk Management Applied on a Global Basis'.
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Business, said in her welcoming remarks, 'The Forum is the first collaboration between PolyU's Faculty of Business and University of Texas at Dallas's School of Management, which share common research interest in corporate governance.' She continued, 'It has been widely recognised that risk management increasingly becomes a crucial factor leading to the sustainability and success of global enterprises. In fact, risk management matters not only for an enterprise, but also for a country.  China's snowstorm crisis in mid January shows the importance of risk management at country level.'
In the concluding remarks, Prof. Konstans cited the risk-dismissing practices of a small group of greedy and unscrupulous lenders as the origins of the current US home mortgage crisis. He concluded that, 'enterprises should behave as parts of fluid, integrated systems that span time and space. This in turn requires the ability to anticipate, understand, and effectively respond to systems imbalances such as occurred in the US home mortgage market.'
