
[date]2007.11.11[/date]
[title]HKCC grants scholarships to 126 outstanding students[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) has set aside $3 million to provide for various scholarships and support funds for the academic year 2007/08. Out of this fund, more than $0.5 million scholarships were granted on 8 November 2007 to 126 Associate Degree students who attained distinguished academic performance in the year 2006/07. 
A total of 94 students from different disciplines who have excelled in their first year of studies were presented with the HKCC Outstanding Student Award Scholarship. This batch included 17 Gold, 25 Silver and 52 Bronze awardees who received scholarship grants of $12,000, $6,000 and $2,500 respectively. 
This year, 11 students of the Associate in Bilingual Communication were awarded the 'CBS Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' granted by PolyU's Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, while five students from the Associate in Statistics and Computing for Business received the 'AMA Outstanding Student Award Scholarship' sponsored by PolyU's Department of Applied Mathematics. This year also saw the introduction of two new scholarships sponsored by PolyU's School of Design and School of Nursing which were awarded to three outstanding students studying in these disciplines.
In addition, five new scholarships sponsored by professional bodies and businesses were introduced and awarded to 11 distinguished students. These sponsors included the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, The Association of International Accountants, The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, e-Education Publishing Ltd and New York Life.  
HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung said, 'HKCC regards the provision of scholarships as a recognition to high achievers of our college. We are thankful to the respective PolyU departments and outside organizations which support our dedication in quality education through their sponsorship to set up various scholarships.' 
Celebrating its sixth anniversary this year, HKCC is committed to providing quality associate degree programmes which aim at all-rounded development of students. The College currently offers 26 programmes covering a spectrum of arts, science, social sciences, business and specialized subjects. 
