
[date]2007.10.12[/date]
[title]PolyU offers a taste of university life for PLA officers[/title]
A group of 80 officers from the SAR garrison of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) visited The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (12 October). The officers were given opportunities to experience university life and interact with staff and students during the whole-day visit. 
The delegation led by Major General Wang Yuren, Deputy Commander of the SAR garrison, was warmly welcomed by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and Senior Management of the University.  Prof. Poon is also pleased to note that this historic visit fell within the period in celebrating the 80th Anniversary of the establishment of PLA, HKSAR's 10th Anniversary as well as PolyU's 70th Anniversary.
Speaking at the welcoming ceremony, Prof. Poon said: 'The PLA Hong Kong garrison has not only contributed to protecting the SAR after the reunification, but also participated in a wide range of community services. They truly deserve our respect and admiration.' 
The officers were guided by staff and students to tour around the university campus in the morning. They were briefed on PolyU's award-winning breakthroughs at the House of Innovation, the world's first 'sweating' manikin and its potential use for improving design of army uniforms; and PolyU's unique role and contributions as a partner in research and technology development for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
The officers also visited the Student Hostel and enjoyed a lunch with university students and wardens in the canteen. In addition, they were invited to sit in a class by Prof. Robert Bauer of the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies in the afternoon. 
Colonel Cheng Dongfang, spokesman of the SAR garrison, also introduced the history and other interesting facts of the PLA to a full house of PolyU staff and students.
The PLA visit concluded with a friendly basketball match between the visitors and the PolyU Basketball Team. Major General Wang Yuren also played in the game. 
