
[date]2007.10.29[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Nursing signs pact with HK Sanatorium and Hospital[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Nursing (SN) and the Hong Kong Sanatorium and Hospital (HKSH) are jointly offering a Master's Degree of Nursing Programme, which is the first of its kind in the territory, to enable degree holders of other discipline to enter the nursing profession.
At a signing ceremony held yesterday (29 October) on the university campus, the collaboration agreement for this programme was signed by Dr Walton Li, Medical Superintendent of HKSH; Prof. Suleyman Demokan, PolyU Vice President; as witnessed by Ms Manbo Man, Director of Nursing Services of HKSH; and Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences.
According to Prof. Samantha Pang, Head of SN, the new programme is modelled on existing postgraduate nursing programmes at renowned universities in North America. The rigorous programme will provide a valuable opportunity for degree holders in other disciplines to enter the nursing profession, preparing them to qualify as Registered Nurses.
The programme will admit its first cohort of 40 students in the 2008/2009 academic year. Students are expected to complete 96 credits during the three-year programme, comprising 66 credits of taught subjects and 30 credits of field study. The tuition fee for the programme is estimated at HK$75,000 per year.
In support of this pioneering programme, HKSH will not only provide clinical education and placements for the programme's students, but will also support its implementation by providing scholarships totalling HK$10 million for 120 students in three intakes, as well as installing teaching facilities and resources for learning in the new hospital premises.
SN is taking active steps to promote nursing education and to address the acute manpower shortage of qualified nursing professionals. Earlier in May, the School also signed a pact with another two private hospitals for the launch of a self-financed bachelor's degree programme in nursing for sub-degree nursing graduates.
