
[date]2008.01.10[/date]
[title]Playright joins hands with PolyU to organize conference putting child’s play issues into spotlight[/title]
Over 500 delegates from around the world are participating in the 17th International Play Association World Conference 2008. Entitled 'Play in a Changing World,' the Conference is being held from 8 to 11 January 2008 on The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus. The event is organized by Playright Children's Play Association (Playright) and co-organized by PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS).
The officiating guests of the Conference's opening ceremony included Mrs Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, Secretary for Development of the HKSAR; the Hon. Bernard Chan, Chairperson of The Hong Kong Council of Social Service; Prof. Tom Jambor, Vice President of International Play Association; Dr Chow Chun-bong, Chairperson of Playright; and Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of FHSS of PolyU. The Conference's major themes are 'Children's Right to Play,' 'Play and Changing Environments,' 'Play and Changing Lifestyles,' and 'Play and Modernization.'
Chairperson of Playright Dr Chow Chun-bong remarked: 'Every child has the right to play. Through innovative play in an appropriate environment, children can learn and grow with a positive influence in their lives. At the Conference, international experts in child's play will shed new light on prominent issues revolving around the Conference's themes, while participants will have the opportunity to exchange innovative play ideas from their experiences of play in their home countries.'
Dean of FHSS Prof. Thomas Wong said: 'Today, social workers, educational psychologists, teachers and even parents face new challenges owing to emerging social, political, economic, environmental, technological and health issues surrounding child's play. FHSS stands at the forefront of training high-quality health and human services practitioners. We also strive to foster multidisciplinary efforts in tackling contemporary health and social care issues. That's why we joined hands with Playright to organize this meaningful Conference.'
A fun-filled 'Playday' themed around multicultural play was staged as part of the Conference, with over 1,000 children taking part. The 'Playday' featured a Play Zone split into the seven continents, showcasing multicultural play activities from Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Australasia and Europe.
During the 'Playday,' students from seven kindergartens and primary schools in Hong Kong also participated in a record-breaking activity named 'Play Around the World' to show off their creativity. Taxus boards designed by 300 primary school students characterizing the world's seven continents were mounted on a giant globe to create an impressive visual impact. In addition, the Conference will also feature a children's forum where 40 Secondary One students from Hong Kong will share their perceptions of play.
Tying in with the themes of the Conference, award-winning entries of the 'Create+Play' Games and Toys Design Competition are also being showcased outside the Conference venue. The winning teams shared with the Conference delegates their inspirations and ideas behind their designs. The 'Create+Play' Games and Toys Design Competition was jointly organized by FHSS and Po Leung Kuk. Open to all primary and secondary school students in Hong Kong, the competition required participating teams to design and make their ideal game or toy. Over 300 students from 30 schools took part in the two-day final held in December last year.
About Playright Children's Play AssociationEstablished in 1987, Playright is a non-profit organization that seeks to enrich the life of every child through quality play. Playright further seeks to demonstrate to parents, teachers, policy makers and the public at large that quality play is vital to children's development. Playright's actions cover advocacy, play resources, play outreach, and play environments. Playright serves more than 250,000 children and their families each year.
About PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social SciencesThe Faculty of Health and Social Sciences is made up of five departments/schools, namely the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Department of Health Technology and Informatics, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Nursing, and School of Optometry. The Faculty offers sub-degree, undergraduate and postgraduate programmes that aim to produce quality health and human services practitioners who are caring and competent professionals in practice and critical thinkers of theory. The Faculty also engages in research that can contribute positively to the well-being of society.
