
[date]2008.01.15[/date]
[title]PolyU and American Accounting Association co-host International Conference on Accounting and Economics[/title]
The Joint JCAE (Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics) &amp; AJPT (Auditing: A Journal of Practice &amp; Theory) Symposium 2008, co-organised by the Asia-Pacific Center for Corporate Governance Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the American Accounting Association, was held on 4-5 January 2008 at PolyU campus. Prior to the Symposium, a Doctoral Consortium was also organised.
About 200 academics, researchers and industry practitioners in the fields of accounting, economics and corporate governance from ten overseas countries attended the Symposium and the Consortium. They presented cutting-edge research findings and exchanged insightful perspectives in interactive paper discussion sessions, plenary paper sessions, the journal editors' forum and the corporate governance forum.
Distinguished speakers of the Consortium and the Symposium included Prof. Eli Bartov of New York University, Prof. Katherine Schipper of Duke University, Prof. Dan A. Simunic of The University of British Columbia, Prof. Ross L. Watts of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Prof. Jerold L. Zimmerman of University of Rochester, Prof. Zoltan Matolcys of University of Technology, Sydney and Prof Michel Magnan, Editor of 'Contemporary Accounting Research'.
At the opening ceremony of the symposium, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'The interdisciplinary nature of this Joint Symposium is altogether fitting and proper, given the complexities of the present day business environment. The Doctoral Consortium has also attracted many doctoral students from the Chinese Mainland, Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, UK, New Zealand and India, as well as locally. This is fully in line with our University's internationalisation initiative, and represents but one example of our continuous efforts to contribute to the social and economic development of our motherland and the region.'
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Business, said in her welcoming remarks, 'The Doctoral Consortium and the following two-day Joint Symposium are not only promoting internationalisation, but innovation as well. For the first time, the annual JCAE Symposium has been transformed into a Joint Symposium with 'Auditing: A Journal of Practice &amp; Theory'. Surely this novel initiative will inject more intellectual vigor and bring more academic sparkle to the audience, the PolyU campus and beyond.'
Professor Ferdinand A. Gul, Co-editor of 'Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics' and PolyU Head of School of Accounting and Finance, said, 'This is the first time that we have joined hands with a prestigious accounting journal ' 'Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory' - to organise a symposium, which has proved to be very successful. We are looking forward to collaborating with other top-tier journals in the future. I am sure the participants at the Symposium will gain from the discussions with internationally distinguished speakers in the fields of accounting, economics and corporate governance.'
