
[date]2008.05.22[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts IEEE conference to explore new frontiers in data mining[/title]
PolyU's Department of Computing will host the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) Data Mining Forum 2008 to be held on PolyU campus on 28-29 May 2008. The two-day event will discuss the fundamental challenges in data mining and explore the new frontiers in data mining research and development.  With over 25 world's leading experts and practitioners in data mining from North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia to shed light on the theme 'Exploring the Next Generation of Data Mining', the event will certainly be a cross-cultural exchange of the developments in the field of analyzing data from different perspectives and summarizing them into useful management information. Among the distinguished speakers of the Forum are the founders of four internationally acclaimed data mining conferences (ACM KDD, IEEE ICDM, SIAM SDM, and NSF-NGDM). 
Prof. Keith Chan, Head of PolyU's Department of Computing remarked, 'Today, data mining goes far beyond extracting useful information from large databases and using it to support strategic business decisions. Thanks to the advancement of technology and innovations in powerful statistical software, data mining can also be applied to predict customer defections and define new customer groups for product launch and marketing campaigns.'
'Where there is data, there can be data mining. Data Mining has become one of the most challenging and promising fields in Computing and Information Technology, especially in this world of ever-growing data and information. I am sure that our world class speakers will give their insights on the way forward for the data mining community,' said Prof. Wu Xindong, Visiting Chair Professor, PolyU's Department of Computing. 
The first day of the Forum will consist of presentations in specialized topics, including Link Analysis; Prediction Models in Information Extraction; Pattern Analysis for Pattern Pruning, Pattern Clustering and Summarization; Mining Evaluation Networks; and Problems in Semi-Supervised Learning, leading to a panel discussion on Data Challenges for Data Mining. On the second day, the talks will cover issues like Challenges for Data Mining in Business Applications; Mining in Ubiquitous and Distributed Environments; Challenges of Heterogeneity; Multiple Criteria Mathematical Programming-based Data Mining, and Contrast Pattern Mining and Applications, with the presentations to be rounded-up by a panel discussion on Useful Activities to Promote Data Mining.
For further details and registration, please visit the Forum website:   http://www.comp.polyu.edu.hk/conference/DMForum08/
