
[date]2008.05.29[/date]
[title]Nobel Laureate hosts forum on Incentives in Healthcare[/title]
More than 100 academics, researchers, practitioners in the healthcare industry and students attended a special lecture yesterday (29 May) hosted by the PolyU-affiliated College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE) and delivered by Professor Sir James Alexander Mirrlees, a Nobel Laureate in Economics (1996). Titled 'Incentives in Healthcare', the public lecture discussed the importance of economic incentives and its relevance to the health care industry. Prof. Sir James Mirrlees presented his ideas on incentives for providers, insurance, consumers and government.
Prof. Peter Yuen, Dean of CPCE and a discussant in this forum, is a researcher in health care financing. Prof. Yuen remarked, 'Government is currently conducting public consultations on health systems reform. Our existing health care system is flawed with widespread perversed incentives in both the public and private sectors. It is important to address the incentive question before embarking on finding supplementary financing sources so as to ensure that the resources allocated will serve the best interest of the patient and the general public.'   In the discussion session, the speakers and the audience entered into a constructive dialogue suggesting the need to increase public's awareness of the personal responsibility on one's health and wellness, with emphasis on the prevention of illness and maintaining healthy lifestyles. The audience also exchanged their insights on adopting a sustainable healthcare financing approach that offers incentives for proper usage of the healthcare system, and effective provision of services by healthcare providers as well.
Prof. Sir James Mirrlees is currently a Distinguished Professor-at-Large and the Masters-Designate of the Morningside College of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. He was Edgeworth Professor of Economics and Fellow of Nuffield College from 1968 to 1995 at Oxford and after 1995, Professor of Political Economy at Cambridge until 2003. He has also held Visiting Professorships at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of California Berkeley and Yale. 
Prof. Sir James Mirrlees shared the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1996 with Professor William Vickrey of Columbia University for their fundamental contributions to the economic theory of incentives under asymmetric information. Prof. Mirrlees was knighted for his outstanding contributions to economic science in 1997. He has produced numerous influential publications on his research interests including optimal income taxation; policy implications of imperfect rationality; and principal/agent situations with multidimensional choice variables.
Founded in 2002, CPCE offers professional and continuing education to the community through its closely-integrated education units, namely, Hong Kong Community College, Hong Kong CyberU and School of Professional Education and Executive Development. 
