
[date]2007.12.11[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts the Third International Conference on Brand Management –Brand Experience[/title]
More than 700 professionals from business and academic sectors attended the Third International Conference on Brand Management jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Asian Centre for Brand Management (ACBM) and the Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC) held at PolyU on 11 December 2007 (Tuesday). The conference was staged as one of the flagship events of this year's Business of Design Week.
Themed 'Brand Experience', the conference explored different aspects and approaches toward brand experience that will enhance brand equity and customer equity of a company. It also provided an important platform for the participants to meet world-renowned experts on brand management.
The opening ceremony was officiated at by Mrs Rita Lau, Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development (Communications and Technology), and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. Mrs Lau was encouraged to see a global line up of speakers and an interested audience. She said, 'I must congratulate the Hong Kong Polytechnic University on successfully organizing this most timely conference during the Business of Design Week, and bringing in world experts to enlighten us on the latest thinking on brand experience, and share with us success stories.'
Prof. Poon said, 'By bringing together world class brand management experts from academia and the related business sectors, this conference certainly provides an invaluable platform for participants to explore further ideas on this important concept of brand management.' Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Business said in her closing remarks, 'The conference, with its focus on brand experience, surely brings new insights in brand management to participants.'
Prominent academics and practitioners in the branding and marketing areas gave stimulating keynote presentations at the conference. They included Prof. Rajendra K. Srivastava from Emory Marketing Institute of the Emory University; Mr Hou Guang-ji from China Mobile Communications Corporation; Prof. Bernd Schmitt from Columbia Business School; Dr Srinivas Reddy from Coca-Cola Center for Marketing Studies of the University of Georgia; and Mr Benjamin Grubbs from eBay, Hong Kong.
Innovative and brand new sessions were introduced in this year's conference to give participants eye-opening experiences, which included the Green Branding Forum, Case Study Session and Branding &amp; Design Session. In the Forum, Ms Jocelyn Leung of ImagineX Group, and Ms Josephine Ng of GPI International Limited shared how their companies do business in an environmentally friendly way. In the Case Study Session, Ms Radha Chadha of Chadha Strategy Consulting and Mr Tommy Li of Tommy Li Design Workshop gave advice on SMEs brand management tactics. Ms Liz Grubow of LPK Beauty, Mr Wang Yong of Brandcn.com, and Mr Craig Briggs of Desgrippes Gobe Group shared successful brand management practice from brand consultants' perspectives.
ACBM was established in 2005 by PolyU's Faculty of Business, specialising in conducting applied research on branding issues with practical value for improving business performance. As a regional centre for branding and retail studies, ACBM focuses on creating and improving brand value, and organizing research projects on the management of brands as market-based assets.
HKDC is a non-profit making organization established in 2001 by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations. It is dedicated to helping local designers and businesses to realise their full potential. Its mission is to use design and innovation to drive value creation and improve the well-being of society. Its vision is to establish Hong Kong as a centre of design excellence in Asia.
For further information on the conference, please visit its official website: www.polyu.edu.hk/mm/acbm/brandconf2007.
