
[date]2008.05.26[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 2nd International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports[/title]
More than 200 participants from 15 countries and territories are gathering at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 25 to 28 May to attend the Second International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports (IFSPA 2008). 
Organized by PolyU's C.Y. Tung International Centre of Maritime Studies (ICMS) and Department of Logistics (LGT), the four-day Forum kicked off with welcoming addresses by Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President and Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Director of the Graduate School of Business, at an opening ceremony held yesterday (26 May).
The opening ceremony was followed by a plenary session with prominent industry leaders sharing their perspectives on Transport and Logistics. Speakers include: The Honourable Miriam Kin-yee Lau, Legislative Councillor; Mr Roger Tupper, Director of Marine Department of the HKSAR; Mr Norman Lo, Director-General of Civil Aviation Department of the HKSAR; Mr Peter Cremers, Chairman of Hong Kong Shipowners Association; and Mr Anthony Lau, President of Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport in Hong Kong. 
According to the organizer, IFSPA serves as a platform to solicit professional opinions and exchange views in the fields of Transportation (Maritime and Aviation), Logistics Management and Operations Research from experts worldwide. 
Eminent scholars at home and abroad have been invited as keynote speakers and chairpersons in panel discussions. Parallel sessions are also run for participants to exchange their profound knowledge and insightful views on issues related to global and regional Maritime Economics and Finance, Airport Planning and Operation, Asia-Pacific Logistics Development as well as Port Operation and Management. The Forum also received great support from the industry. In addition, a special session will be dedicated to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Hong Kong International Airport. 
After the Forum, two concurrent technical visits will be arranged to Hong Kong International Airport and Hong Kong International Terminals on 28 May to enhance participants' understanding of Hong Kong as one of the world's leading transport and logistics hubs. 
For more details and programme of the Second International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports, please refer to its official website at URL: http://www.lgt.polyu.edu.hk/Event/IFSPA2008/.
