
[date]2007.11.27[/date]
[title]First Accreditation Forum and China Conference kicks off at PolyU[/title]
Leading international educators gathered on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) last week (22 to 23 November) to participate in the first Accreditation Forum and China Conference.
This two-day conference was the first joint-effort of the UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA) and PolyU's Faculty of Business. The event provided an opportunity for prospective schools from China and the Far East to understand AMBA's accreditation services and network.
Ms Jeanette Purcell, Chief Executive of AMBA, said at the conference's kick-off ceremony, 'The conference also serves as an ideal platform for examining the latest developments in business education, with a focus on regional challenges and partnerships with China.'Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Business said, 'It is our great pleasure to be the first partner of AMBA in China to organize such conference. I am most delighted to see that participating deans and directors of business schools have a fruitful exchange of views and experience of post-graduate management education and accreditation issues during the conference.' The conference comprised an Accreditation Forum on the first day focusing on business programme accreditation issues; a China Conference with three sessions themed 'Challenges for the Region', 'Regional Market Focus' and 'Partnerships in China' on the second day. Speakers at the event included prominent academics from PolyU, the City University of Hong Kong, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Zhejiang University and Durham Business School. PolyU's Graduate School of Business, a member of AMBA, is the first business school in China which has been granted AMBA's accreditation status for its clarity of mission, dynamic leadership, excellent staff, students and faculty credentials, and outstanding documentation. All the Master of Business Administration programmes offered in Hong Kong and the mainland by the School have been granted the accreditation status starting December 2005.
