
[date]2008.05.07[/date]
[title]PolyU rehab volunteers to serve in Beijing Olympic Village[/title]
The Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be sending forth as many as 62 volunteers to provide professional services in sports therapy for athletes worldwide in the course of the Olympic Games in the cities of Beijing, Qingdao and Hong Kong.
The volunteers yesterday (6 May) pledged their support for the Games in the presence of Prof. Yu Changlong, Counsellor of the Medical services/Games Services Department of the Beijing Organizing Committee for the 29th Olympic Games, who has made a special trip to Hong Kong for this event. He was joined by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong; Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Prof. Chetwyn Chan, Head of RS, at this special ceremony held on the university campus.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, 'We are deeply honoured to be selected by Beijing authorities for recruiting volunteers as the world's only university to provide such services for the Beijing Olympic Games. This is yet another recognition for PolyU after its designation by the Chinese Olympic Committee as a Collaborative Research Partner for the Games.'
A stringent selection process was conducted on the university campus in March this year. A total of 15 volunteers were subsequently appointed, including seven graduates of RS, six third-year and two second-year students. They will station in Beijing Olympic Village and join force with mainland therapists in providing professional services for athletes from over the world. 
In addition, RS will send forth some 21 faculty members and students to Qingdao ' the venue of the 2008 Olympic Sailing Competition ' to provide professional services to sailing athletes. At the same time, 29 students of the department will assist the medical teams of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority at the Olympic Equestrian Events to be held in Hong Kong.
In Hong Kong, PolyU(RS) is the sole provider of tertiary education in physiotherapy and occupational therapy. RS also offers an MSc Programme in Sports Physiotherapy with a view to grooming professional therapists for the Chinese mainland and South East Asia.
