
[date]2007.10.10[/date]
[title]PolyU Logistics students gain governmental and industry support[/title]
A total of 42 students of the Department of Logistics (LGT) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) were presented with scholarships under four prominent Scholarship schemes established by the Government or the industry at the 'LGT Awards Presentation Ceremony 2007' held on PolyU campus yesterday (10 October).
The four Scholarships are the Scholarship for Maritime Studies by the Hong Kong SAR Government, the Gao Yan Ming Scholarship donated by The North China Lines Limited, the HKSOA Scholarship by The Hong Kong Shipowners Association Limited and the Kalitta Air Scholarship by The Kalitta Air.
Addressing the Ceremony, Professor John J. Liu, Head of LGT and Chair Professor of Maritime Studies, welcomed the Scholarships and thanked the donors for their support. He said, 'The programmes at PolyU LGT are designed to link the classes to the real world or to bring the real world into classes. By providing high quality of teaching, research and consultancy, the Department works towards achieving excellence in maritime studies, shipping, transport, and supply chain logistics.'
The Scholarship for Maritime Studies was presented by Legislative Councillor Miriam Lau Kin-Yee, Group Chairman of IMC Group of Companies Dr Frank Tsao, Chairman of The Hong Kong Shipowners Association Mr David Koo, Director of Marine of the HKSAR Marine Department Mr Roger Tupper, Chief Assistant Secretary of the HKSAR Transport &amp; Housing Bureau Mr Fung Kwok Ming, and Chairman of Island Navigation Corporation International Limited Mr M. H. Liang.
The Scholarship was established with a $4 million donation by the Government to support full-time students studying the Master of Science in International Shipping and Transport Logistics programme at PolyU's Graduate School of Business. For the 2007/08 academic session, 10 local and Chinese mainland students were awarded the Scholarship. 
The presentation of the Gao Yan Ming Scholarship was conducted by Mr Wang Lijun, Vice-president of North China Shipping Holdings Co. Ltd. The company has donated $300,000 to PolyU in the 2006/07 academic year to provide financial aids and incentives to 28 students pursuing a career in shipping and transport logistics.
The Managing Director of The Hong Kong Shipowners Association Mr Arthur Bowring presented the HKSOA Scholarship on behalf of the Association to three inbound exchange students enrolled in undergraduate programmes in maritime studies in 2006/07. Each of them received a scholarship valued at $7,470. Students from or local students for exchange in the Chinese mainland are eligible for this Scholarship.
Established in 2003 with an aim of recognizing students' academic result and encouraging their initiative to better understand the aviation industry, The Kalitta Air Scholarship, providing an amount equivalent to one year's tuition fee of a degree programme, is offered to a full-time local undergraduate student from the Department of Logistics each year. The Scholarship this year was presented by Mr David Sung, General Manager of Kalitta Air.
The support extended to PolyU by the Government and the industry is an acknowledgement of the University's continuing efforts to nurture logistics professionals and to enhance the status of Hong Kong maritime industry.
At the Ceremony yesterday, 60 LGT students also received the Certificate of Merit for their academic performance in the year 2006/07.
