
[date]2008.03.09[/date]
[title]PolyU holds fun-filled homecoming carnival for alumni[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) jointly staged the 'PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival 2008' on campus yesterday (9 March) to cultivate close links between the University and its graduates by bringing them back to campus for a fun-filled Sunday.
The opening ceremony of the carnival was officiated at by Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Acting President; Dr Roy Chung, Chairman of PolyU Court; Prof. Kenneth Pang, FHKPUAA President; Mr Fan Siu-kay, FHKPUAA First Vice President; and Mr Alex Wong, FHKPUAA Second Vice President. The Carnival was kicked off by a lion dance performance joined by two famous characters, McMug and McDull. During the opening ceremony, PolyU also celebrated the inauguration of FHKPUAA's newly elected Board of Directors.
This year, the event featured a 'PolyU Alumni 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament' and the 'Inter-Alumni-Association 7-a-side Soccer Competition'. In addition, participants could brush up their artistic skills in the handicraft corner, share some fun with their kids in the family world or enjoy horse riding, electricity mini-car and other activities in the games ground. Other attractions of the carnival included bus tour, rope skipping show, kids singing and dancing, and magic workshop. 
Furthermore, participants toured around PolyU's facilities, including House of Innovation, Intelligent Home, Pao Yue-Kong Library, Student Halls of Residence, Millennium Training Restaurant and Multimedia Innovation Centre. A number of sports facilities were also opened for use for free.
A variety of appetizing snacks was served in food stalls set up by Asia Pacific Catering Corporation Limited which generously sponsored meals and drinks for all voluntary helpers in the Carnival.
PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival has long been a popular event among the PolyU graduates. The last carnival in 2006 drew more than 6,000 participants to PolyU. Over 200 volunteers from more than 30 departments and alumni associations contributed their efforts towards the success of the carnival.
Since its inception in 1937, PolyU has sent forth 250,000 graduates over the years. The event offers the alumni a golden opportunity to reminisce about their campus life. All graduates of PolyU, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School are welcome to bring along their families and friends to the carnival to enjoy the games. 
