
[date]2008.04.11[/date]
[title]Hong Kong’s Human National Flag on Guinness Record[/title]
The giant Human National Flag formed by 21,726 members of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) community, its supporters and scouts at the Siu Sai Wan Sports Ground on 23 September 2007 has been officially recognized as the world's largest by the Guinness World Records.
The world's largest national flag of the People's Republic of China and regional flag of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) were formed during the 'Flags of Harmony and Unity' event. It was not only the major activity celebrating PolyU's 70th Anniversary, but also an Accredited Event commemorating the 10th Anniversary of HKSAR's reunification with the motherland.
During the process of forming the flags, thousands of enthusiastic participants ' including PolyU students, staff, alumni, friends, scouts and supporters from external bodies ' stood closely together on the grass pitch and held up coloured boards to form the image of the national flag, and then HKSAR flag by flipping over their boards. The event was officiated at by Mr Michael Suen Ming-yeung, Secretary for Education of the HKSAR Government.
PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong hailed that this event not only showed the unity and vitality of the Hong Kong community, but also demonstrated PolyU's commitment to society. 'I sincerely thank the Scout Association of Hong Kong for co-organizing this spectacular and some 30 sponsors for their generous support for this historic event. Their staunch support has given a strong impetus to PolyU's continuous effort in nurturing talents to advance the development of our society and our country.' Prof. Poon remarked.
To fulfil the University's commitment to the Hong Kong society and the motherland, a total sum of about $600,000 has been donated to Sowers Action and Senior Citizen Home Safety Association to respectively support education services on the Chinese mainland and elderly services in Hong Kong.
On 6 October 2002, PolyU also brought together 11,273 participants to form the world's Largest Human Rainbow in celebration of its 65th anniversary. 
