
[date]2008.04.17[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Business ranks among world's top business schools[/title]
The Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has again been listed among the world's top business schools in the latest independent ranking exercise conducted by University of Texas at Dallas (UTD), testifying to FB's strength in achieving world-class academic excellence.
To compile the league table of business schools, UTD researchers have analysed research contributions of business schools based on their publications in 24 leading journals for the period 2003 to 2007. PolyU FB is ranked 78th worldwide in the latest exercise, an important jump from the 91st place in the previous exercise.
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of FB and Director of Graduate School of Business (GSB), was delighted with this recognition. 'We are pleased that FB's dedicated efforts in striving for excellence in teaching and research over the years are now widely acknowledged in the international arena, and this significant recognition has given us an even stronger impetus to provide business education and research at the highest international standard.'
In 2007, PolyU FB achieved accreditation status of European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) awarded by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD). Its Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programmes are accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA) in the United Kingdom. It is the first business school in Hong Kong and the Chinese Mainland accredited by AMBA, while its DBA is among the first in the world thus accredited. In addition, FB's finance research is ranked No. 2 in the Asia-Pacific Region, according to the Pacific Basin Finance Journal (November 2005 issue).
True to its core value of 'Qualified for the Real World', FB's strength and uniqueness lie in its ability to integrate theories with business practices. The Faculty is committed to providing business education, applied research and consultancy firmly based on the realities of local and global businesses.
For more information on UTD's ranking exercise, please visit http://somweb.utdallas.edu/top100Ranking/searchRanking.php?t=w, and for more information on PolyU FB, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/fb.
