
[date]2007.11.01[/date]
[title]PolyU confers Fellowship on internationally esteemed hotelier Mr Andreas Hofer[/title]
Mr Andreas L. Hofer, a world famous and respected hotelier, was presented the University Fellowship parchment by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong at a special ceremony on Wednesday (31 October).  
The coveted honour was conferred on Mr Hofer in his absence in June by the University in recognition of his outstanding achievements in the hotel industry and his contribution to PolyU. In 2005, he generously pledged a bequest of US$1 million for establishing a scholarship scheme in PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM).
Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director of SHTM, extended his gratitude for Mr Hofer's bequest on behalf of the University. 'The bequest will serve as a model, and we hope more donors will follow Mr Hofer's example, supporting more students to pursue a career in the hotel industry,' said Prof. Chon.
After the ceremony, Mr Hofer presented a lecture entitled 'What quality of graduates is the hotel industry requiring in today's challenging hospitality market?' to more than 200 students of the School.
Mr Andreas Hofer, now Vice Chairman of the Lanson Place Group, has enjoyed an illustrious career in the hospitality industry in Hong Kong and worldwide. In 1966, he joined the Mandarin Oriental Hotel's Food and Beverage Department, where his talents and exceptional performance quickly caught the eye of the hotel management. After several promotions, he rose to the position of General Manager in 1975 and served in this key position until 1982. During his tenure, the Mandarin Oriental was named the Best Hotel in Asia and the Second Best Hotel in the World. 
Mr Hofer was a Vice Chairman and Chairman of the Hong Kong Hotels Association from 1977 to 1980. In 1982, he joined the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group's Head Office. Later he became the company's Vice President, South East Asia and was based in Singapore. In 1987, he was appointed by The Wharf (Holdings) Limited in Hong Kong as President of the newly formed Marco Polo International Hotel Group. In 1990, he launched his own private hotel consulting and investment business, Hyde Park Land and Hospitality Management Ltd based in Vancouver, Canada. 
In 1995 Mr Hofer as Executive Director, became a founding member of Hong Kong based Lanson Place Hospitality Management Limited, which operates first class Serviced Apartments and Hotels in key Asian cities. Its Hong Kong property, Lanson Place Hotel in Causeway Bay, a member of the Small Luxury Hotels of the World, was voted best new Boutique Hotel in Hong Kong in 2007. 
The PolyU University Fellowship Conferment Ceremony 2006/2007 was held on 12 June this year. Other recipients of the honour include Mr Barry Lawson Burton, the founding Librarian of PolyU; Dr Jonathan Choi Koon-shum, President of the Sun Wah Group; Mr Paul Chow Man-yiu, Director of the World Federation of Exchanges and Chief Executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing; Dr Patrick Lam See-pong, co-founder and former CEO of ASM Pacific Technology Ltd; Dr Lee Kang-kuen, Senior Director-Capital Projects of the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation; the late Ir Prof. Leung Tin-pui, Professor Emeritus of PolyU and Honorary Director of the Confucius Institute of Hong Kong; Mrs Katherine Ngan Ng Yu-ying, Vice President of the May Cheong Group; Prof. Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, the former Commissioner of Rating and Valuation; Ir Otto Poon Lok-to, Founder and Managing Director of the Analogue Group of Companies; Ms Vivienne Tam, world-renowned fashion designer; Mr Glory Wan Lee-wa, Founder, Executive Director and General Manager of Texment Fashion Limited; Mr Yau Chun-ying, Chairman of the Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association; and Mr Yu Kwok-chun, Chairman and Managing Director of Yue Hwa Chinese Products Emporium Ltd. 
