
[date]2007.12.03[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a special ceremony yesterday (3 December) to pay tribute to the winners of this year's 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement', the 'Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement' and the 'Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff'. 
The Awards were presented by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
This year, the 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement' were presented to three individuals and three teams. They were selected out of 14 individuals and 5 teams which have won the other two Performance / Achievements Awards.  
There are four categories under the award scheme, namely, Teaching, Research and Scholarly Activities, Services and Overall Contribution. The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):- Dr Simon Wong, Assistant Professor, School of Hotel and Tourism Management
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):- Prof. Iris F.F. Benzie, Associate Head, Department of Health Technology and Informatics- Dr Ji-yan Dai, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Physics (AP)
Services (Team):- Prof. S.L. Ho, Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering (EE); Prof. Tam Hwa-yaw, Chair Professor of EE; Dr Alan K.T. Lau, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering; Prof. Esmond Mok, Associate Head, Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics; Dr Tsang Wai-fan Steven, Assistant Professor, Department of Building and Real Estate; Dr K.H. Wong, Associate Head of AP; and Dr Y.W. Wong, Assistant Professor of AP 
Overall Contribution (Team): - Mrs Winnie Lee, Section Head (Student Development); Ms Jeice Cheung, Student Affairs Officer; Ms Shoushan Lui, Assistant Officer; and Ms Chu Wai Wai, Clerical Officer II, Student Affairs Office (SAO)- Mrs Ivy Leung, Head; Ms Esther Fong, Manager (Culture Promotion); Miss Phyllis Mak and Miss Fiona Ho, Assistant Officers, Culture Promotion and Events Office (CPEO)
Dr Simon Wong joined PolyU in 1994. With 'Interesting', 'Inspiring' and 'Informative', as his teaching philosophy, Dr Wong has been employing interactive games and exercises to let his students experience and experiment different ways of handling cases and solving problems.
Having served PolyU for 25 years, Prof. Iris F.F. Benzie is highly respected internationally among her counterparts in biomedical science research which won her citations, awards and patents. Her project in dietary antioxidants and health promotion received the first World Cancer Research Fund International Research Grant to a researcher in China.
Dr Ji-yan Dai has brought in many new research ideas and impetus of prominent applied nature and strong industrial relevance. With his profound knowledge in synthesizing and characterising nanomaterials, he has initiated many searching investigations which utilize transmission electron microscopy that has helped AP raise its electron microscopic competency.
The team under the leadership of Prof. S. L. Ho has contributed their professional services to the railway industry. In the past few years, the team has provided consultancy services to corporations, in particular to the former Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation to tackle a number of major issues related to railway condition monitoring that had great implications on the benefit of the general public. 
The members of the SAO team have devoted themselves to promoting the Community Service Learning Project. They have motivated more than 2,700 students and staff members to render their services to over 95,000 needy people in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland since the project was launched in 2004.
The CPEO team is the executive arm of PolyU's Culture Promotion Committee in promoting culture on campus. With enthusiasm, creativity and dedication, the team has made substantial contribution in enhancing students' cultural awareness through organizing various thematic programmes such as Global Connection Carnival.
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty / School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
