
[date]2007.11.17[/date]
[title]HKCC celebrates the opening of its Hung Hom Bay campus[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) yesterday (17 November) officially opened its first purpose-built campus in Hung Hom Bay. 
A commemorative plaque marking the occasion was unveiled at the opening ceremony by PolyU President and Council Chairman of College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPCE) Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, who was accompanied by Dean of CPCE Prof. Peter Yuen and HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung. During the ceremony, HKCC staff, student and alumni representatives and the officiating guests filled a time capsule with memorabilia of HKCC's important developments during the past six years.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'This modern and aesthetically built premises is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, thus providing an ideal teaching and learning environment for HKCC's staff and associate degree students.' 
Four years ago, HKCC was granted a Government loan of $424 million to construct and furnish the Hung Hom Bay campus. With a gross floor area of 26,300 square metres, the new campus is equipped with 51 classrooms, 22 specialist teaching rooms, nine lecture theatres, two high-tech 'Tomorrow Classrooms', a library with a built-in e-resources centre and a computer centre which can accommodate 270 students. 
The campus is also landscaped with ample greeneries and spacious communal areas. In addition, it has been granted the Hong Kong Building Environmental Assessment Method Gold Award, in recognition of its environmental protection and energy saving measures during construction and operation stages.
At the ceremony, Dr Simon Leung remarked that HKCC will celebrate the completion of yet another new campus in West Kowloon next year. By then, both campuses will be in full swing to further enhance the quality of interactive teaching and learning for students. 
This year, HKCC celebrates its sixth anniversary in providing holistic associate degree education in Hong Kong. The College currently offers 26 programmes covering a spectrum of arts, science, social sciences, business and specialized subjects. HKCC graduates enjoy good prospect with over 70 per cent of graduates on average articulating into degree studies.  
