
[date]2008.03.20[/date]
[title]HKCC sponsored by SCOLAR to train student tourism ambassadors in serving Putonghua-speaking travelers[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) has been supporting the initiatives of the Standing Committee on Language Education and Research (SCOLAR) to promote bi-literacy and tri-lingualism in Hong Kong. This year, to echo SCOLAR's initiative to promote Putonghua, HKCC, with the financial support of more than HK$600,000 from SCOLAR, has organized the 'Putonghua Tourism Ambassadors Training Programme' for secondary school students. The Programme is also strongly supported by the Hong Kong Tourism Board, Avenue of Stars and Hong Kong Association for the Promotion of Pinyin Quality Education. 
The Programme was over-enrolled by 81 schools and, after drawing lots by SCOLAR, 280 students from 40 secondary schools were selected to participate in the project which runs from November last year to this August. The Programme consists of workshops on Putonghua speaking skills, tourism subject studies, field trips, a final presentation, a large-scale outdoor exhibition and a sharing session. 
Over 10 HKCC's lecturers teaching Putonghua and Tourism and more than 60 students engaged in the studies of Bilingual Communication and Tourism and Hospitality Management actively supported the Programme. Workshops on 'Putonghua speaking techniques' conducted by experienced Putonghua tutors have been organized. In addition, experts from the local tourism industry hosted subject talks on topics including: Birth and Early Growth of Hong Kong; Culture and Language of Indigenous Residents; Local Temples and Belief in Gods; and Heritage Conservation and Culture. Field trips to relevant historical sites, including the Tai Fu Tai Mansion in San Tin; Ping Shan Heritage Trails; Wong Tai Sin Temple; Chi Lin Nunnery; and Murray House in Stanley, were also arranged to complement the talks.  
Earlier in March, each of the participating schools presented in Putonghua what they had learnt on Hong Kong's history and culture to a panel of judges consisting of experienced Putonghua tutors and professionals in the tourism industry. Eight outstanding teams have been selected to participate in the forthcoming presentation and large-scale outdoor exhibition to be held during the Labour Day weekend at the Hong Kong Cultural Centre and the Avenue of Stars in Tsim Sha Tsui respectively. These student tourism ambassadors will introduce Hong Kong culture and scenic spots to tourists in Putonghua.    HKCC is committed to providing quality associate degree programmes which aim at all-rounded development of students. The College currently offers 26 programmes covering a spectrum of arts, science, social sciences, business and specialized subjects. To sharpen associate degree students' language skills, HKCC regularly organizes Putonghua and English Enhancement Programmes consisting of language workshops, speech and conversation training, and cultural exchange tours to the Mainland and overseas countries.  
