
[date]2007.12.18[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes mobile integrative health centre to help elderly in need[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has received a generous donation of HK$8.2 million from philanthropist Mr Edwin S H Leong to establish the PolyU'Henry G. Leong Mobile Integrative Health Centre, to provide free health screening and monitoring services in the community to needy elderly around Hong Kong.
The Centre was inaugurated yesterday (18 December) at PolyU by Ms Sandra Lee Suk-yee, Permanent Secretary for Food and Health (Health) of the Hong Kong SAR Government; Mr Edwin S H Leong, Founder of Tai Hung Fai Charity Foundation; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU.
Addressing the inauguration ceremony, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'PolyU is very grateful to receive such staunch support from Mr Leong, who has made possible the realization of this meaningful social services project from a raw idea to a definite plan and now to the successful establishment of this worthwhile mobile integrative health centre.' He added, 'This Centre signifies the meaningful beginning of a constructive collaboration between PolyU and Mr Leong on enhancing the development and well-being of our community.'
Mr Edwin Leong remarked, 'I am certain that this Centre, by visiting different areas, in particular those districts with a considerable number of needy elderly residents, will greatly help to spread the message of caring for the elderly and promote the awareness of preventive health care in the community.'
Speaking at the ceremony, Ms Sandra Lee said, "The Government attaches great importance to the development of primary care as it is the first point where individuals and families get into the continuous medical and health care process. If Hong Kong people can make good use of primary care services and establish a long-lasting relationship with their family doctors, improvements will be brought to their general health condition."
The Centre, established in memory of Mr Leong's late father, Mr Henry G Leong, is housed in a 11-metre-long, 2.5-metre-wide and 4-metre-tall vehicle that will visit selected districts in Hong Kong to provide free health checks and monitoring to needy elderly. It aims to improve the health and quality of life of the aged, and in doing so, will also help reduce their future medical and health care cost to the public purse through the early detection of illnesses and preventative services such as public health education and guidance.
Staffed by various health care professionals such as Advanced Practice Nurses, traditional Chinese medicine practitioners and nutritionists, the Centre is also equipped with advanced health-check equipment such as heart rate variability meters, virtual reality feedback systems, Bodyblade exercise equipment, foot massage path, and a wheelchair platform lift. The Centre also incorporates PolyU's award-winning Telehealth System that was developed to create lifelong electronic medical records and family-based health profiles within a central database. Information from the database can be analyzed to map out the health profile of Hong Kong's population, which can be used to optimize health care training and services to better meet Hong Kong's needs.
The Centre will also provide clinical experience for students of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences through their participation in supporting the Centre's operations. The students will also gain a better understanding of the importance of public health and education in the community, especially to an expanding but vulnerable group in society.  ã€€The Centre's health-check and monitoring services include physical health checks, general health assessment, pain assessment, happiness test, and others. A referral service will also be available when necessary. In addition, the Centre will provide professional advice to the aged on healthy eating and exercise, and arrange training and educational activities to enhance their knowledge of health and well-being. Videos will also be broadcast on the vehicle's exterior to promote health messages to the community at large.
The Centre, with its operation in the first three years supported by Mr Leong's donation, will first visit Sham Shui Po every Wednesday and Friday, and Kowloon Bay every Tuesday and Thursday. The hours of service for each elderly client may differ based on the individual's health condition and needs.
