
[date]2008.01.17[/date]
[title]PolyU to host first international symposium of intimate apparel[/title]
Jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the DeMortfort University (DMU), the first International Symposium of Intimate Apparel was held on 17 January (Thursday) on PolyU campus, to promote the exchange of the latest knowledge and development of intimate apparel among academics and industrialists.
The Symposium brought together some 180 local and overseas lingerie experts, including prominent intimate apparel industrialists and academics, to share their insights and experiences. It was the first joint effort of the Ace Style Institutes of Intimate Apparel of PolyU and DMU, and was also an event to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) and the 60th anniversary of DMU.
A major highlight of the Symposium was the presentation by Dr Winnie Yu, Associate Professor on her pioneer research on a new bra sizing system for Chinese women. This breakthrough has been named the Best Invention of the Year 2007 by Time Magazine. In addition, Ms Julie King and Ms Alison Prince, Head and Senior Lecturer of DMU's Department of Fashion and Textiles, also shared their knowledge on plus-size bra design. Other distinguished speakers included Mr Kenneth Wong, Vice Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association; Dr Rong Zheng, Associate Dean and Associate Professor of Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology, PRC; Mr Ralph Jansen, Executive Director of Triumph International Overseas Ltd; and Mr Tsang Kam-lam, General Manager of Environmental Management, the Hong Kong Productivity Council.
Concurrent with the Symposium, an exhibition of Lingerie Fashion was also staged from 17 to 18 January to showcase the creative and novel design by the students of both PolyU and DMU. The exhibits were displayed at the Fashion and Textiles Resource Centre (Room MN109) of PolyU.
The Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel under PolyU's ITC is the first lingerie institute in the Asian Pacific, which was established in 2004 based on its many achievements in lingerie research and substantial support from the industry. It offers training courses for the local and overseas lingerie industry, and the unique BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel underpinned by original research.
The programme in intimate apparel sent forth its first batch of graduates in 2007. Starting from the 2008/09 academic year, it will become a government-funded articulation programme under the BA scheme in Fashion and Textiles of PolyU. This milestone not only signifies the quality of the programme, but also charts a new chapter in the development of local tertiary education in lingerie.
Detailed information of the Symposium is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/symposium.
