
[date]2007.12.05[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Workshop on Collaborative Human Futures[/title]
Leading experts in the areas of Architecture, Building, Civil Engineering and Design from Australia, Finland, France, Hong Kong, UK and USA were in Hong Kong recently to participate in the International Workshop on Collaborative Human Futures organized by Faculty of Construction and Land Use (FCLU) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Entitled 'Collaborative Human Futures ' A New Design Paradigm', the workshop was held to provide insights into the potential use, development and limitations of the current collaborative technologies and practices for researchers and practitioners of the building and construction industry.
Leading scholars and professionals in developing collaborative technologies shared their experiences and academic findings in topics such as 'Client Perspectives in Collaborative Human Futures', 'Key Issues in Collaborative Working', 'Advanced Technologies for Collaborative Working', 'Virtual Prototyping in Design and Construction', 'Building Information Modelling', 'Managing the Processes' and 'Human Issues in Collaborative Human Futures'.
In the first morning of the two-day workshop, Chairman of the workshop Prof. Geoffrey Shen, Associate Dean of FCLU, gave an overview of the theme. He explained, 'Collaborative working in the construction industry means two or more stakeholders share their efforts and resources in order to achieve common objectives of the project more effectively and efficiently. Researchers and practitioners in the industry are working hard on how to support and facilitate collaborative, integrative and multidisciplinary team of stakeholders to tackle complex issues involved in creating viable built environment from three interrelated perspectives: technological, organizational, and social/human.'
Building Information Modelling (BIM) is one example of collaborative technologies of increasing use that presents a new way of working in the building and construction industry.
'The key issue to be addressed by the research community at large is how we can improve productivity and enable innovation through empowered and motivated people,' added Prof. Shen.
At the opening session of the workshop, Professor J.G. Teng, Dean of FCLU delivered a welcoming address, while Ms Ada Fung, Deputy Director of the Housing Department and Mr Ho-kin Li, Chief Architect of Architectural Services Department also addressed the delegates.
The workshop was closed with a discussion on the directions for future research chaired by Prof. Peter Brandon of Salford University of UK, who together with Prof. Andrew Baldwin of Loughborough University, former Dean of FCLU, co-organized the workshop. Papers presented and discussed in the workshop will be published as a book by a leading international publisher.
