
[date]2007.12.21[/date]
[title]PolyU holds denim exhibition to counter fashion trends[/title]
The Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (21 December) kicked off the 'Washed Out' Denim Exhibition, which is being held at the InnoCentre at Kowloon Tong until 27 December.
Chairman of Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association Mr Kevin Yeung joined ITC's Head and Chair Professor of Textile Technology Prof. Tao Xiao-ming in officiating at the Opening Ceremony.
Presenting to the audience a visual journey in textured jeans wear, the exhibition features the artworks created by designers from ITC including Dr Joe Au Sau-chuen, Assistant Professor; Mr Liew Kim-leong, Principal Research Fellow; and Miss Joanne Lau Yee-kwan, Fashion Design Tutor with the respective titles of 'Rock Star Tribute', 'Homage to Designer Labels' and 'Antique Cowboy'.
The designers have transformed the contemporary iconic pair of blue jeans to represent their views of the return to uniqueness as an antidote to mass-market, globalisation and homogenisation of the so-called 'fashion trends'.
According to Prof. Tao, aesthetic denim finishing and texturing probably began in the 1960s during the hippie era when the traditional indigo jeans were bleached, dyed, washed and painted in various applicable textures conceivable to display a carefree lifestyle.
'Aesthetically treated denim began to show its mass appeal during the 1970s. Nowadays, the washed treatment and texturing has become a permanent method in the jeans fashion cycle,' explained Prof. Tao.
Denim was first produced in France in the middle of the 19th century. It was worn mainly by miners for its toughness. Later on, the American re-invented and marketed the jeans to become the most popular fashion icon in the history of fashion.
Earlier on, the 'Washed Out' Denim Exhibition was presented at PolyU's Fashion and Textile Resources Centre with Prof. Angela Woods, Head of the Faculty of Design, National College of Art and Design in Dublin, Ireland, and Visiting Professor of ITC, as the Moderator.
