
[date]2007.11.14[/date]
[title]1st International Nurse Educators Conference kicks off at PolyU[/title]
About 200 participants from 11 countries and territories are gathering on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s affiliated Community College from now to 16 November to attend the first International Nurse Educators Conference hosted by PolyU.
This three-day conference is organized by PolyU School of Nursing (SN) in collaboration with the Mahasarakham University (MSU), Thailand; Kwantlen University College, Canada, and Massey University, New Zealand. It was kicked off with a special ceremony held yesterday (14 November) on the university campus.
According to the organizer, this event aims to provide an opportunity for research based discussions regarding nursing education and practice, with a particular consideration for four themes: Curriculum Design, Information Technology and Communications, Traditional Healing Approaches, Nurse Educator Leadership.
The conference began with a keynote address by Prof. Pamela Ironside, Associate Professor of Indiana University School of Nursing, on the topic of 'Embracing New Pedagogies: Research-based Reform and Innovation in Nursing Education'. Participants also exchanged views at several concurrent sessions before having dinner together.
During the second day of the conference, Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Chair of Nursing and Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Science, will deliver a keynote address on 'IT Communications in Nursing Education'. He will cite PolyU's own experience in developing Telehealth and Telecare system to illustrate the use of information technology in the field of nursing and for promoting primary health care in the community.
Another highlight of the conference is a keynote address by Prof. Roger Watson, Professor of Nursing at the School of Nursing and Midwifery, University of Sheffield, on the topic of 'The Professorial Role as Leader in the 21st Century', to be delivered on Saturday.
SN is taking active steps to promote nursing education and to address the acute manpower shortage of qualified nursing professionals. This year the School has signed pacts with three private hospitals for the launch of new programmes to enable sub-degree graduates and degree holders of non-nursing disciplines to enter the profession.
