
[date]2008.01.16[/date]
[title]PolyU scientist bestowed State Natural Science Award[/title]
Prof. John Shi Wen-zhong of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, a pioneering scientist studying the uncertainty theory to Geographical Information Science (GIS), has recently been awarded the 2007 State Natural Science Award (Second-class) in recognition of his distinguished accomplishment in advancing the studies of GIS.
Organized by the State Council, the national award is the highest honour given by the Central Government in recognition of advancement in basic research. Prof. Shi's project, entitled 'Principle of Modeling Uncertainty in Spatial Data and Spatial Analysis', was selected as one of the 39 second-class prize winning researches this year. (No first-class prize has been awarded.) The award certificates were presented by senior Chinese leaders to the recipients at a gala event held in Beijing on 8 January.
In advancing the study of spatial data quality and uncertainty theory, Prof. Shi has brought together a research team comprising members from Tongji University, Information Engineering University and Wuhan University. They were also bestowed with the China Science and Technology Progress Award in Surveying and Mapping (First-class) by the State of Bureau of Surveying and Mapping and Chinese Society for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography for the same research in 2005.
The culminated efforts of Prof. Shi and his co-researchers have provided a solid foundation for modern GIS. The dynamic data models and mathematical analysis built upon his theory can greatly improve the accuracy and quality of spatial data, thereby promoting the further advancement of GIS in both theory and practices, such as digital city.
His theory on position error modeling of lines in GIS was used in Europe for modeling errors of land used maps. Some of research findings from him and his collaborators on spatial data quality evaluation are used in the national standards, such as 'Specifications for Digital Geological Data Evaluation' of China Geological Survey.
Prof. Shi is also renowned for discovering the theoretical defects of the ε-band model, which was commonly used by scientists for nearly 40 years. He developed a series of new mathematical models and improved solutions in this area. This breakthrough is considered setting the stage for the current research on uncertainty modeling in GIS.
A prolific researcher, Prof. Shi has published more than 300 research articles, including over 60 SCI papers, and authored 10 books. His theory is now included in the syllabus of many higher education institutions in China and designated as a major subject of study. Prof. Shi has been regarded as 'one of the leaders in this research area' internationally.
His expertise is sought after at home and abroad. He chaired or participated over 50 projects in the last decade, including uncertainty-based spatial data mining from Ministry of Science and Technology of China under the 973 program, spatial information technology funded by Hong Kong Research Grant Council under Collaborative Research Center program, and developing quality model for topographic data for Lands Department, HKSAR. He is also contributing a chapter on spatial data quality for the classic reference 'GIS Manual' edited by American Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing.
Prof. Shi was honoured with the ESRI Award for Best Scientific Paper in GIS (first-place) by American Society of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing in 2006; Distinguished Young Scholar Fund (B) by the National Natural Science Foundation of China in 2006; and the Chang Jiang Scholar (Chair Professor) by Ministry of Education of China in 2006, amongst others.
Prof Shi obtained his doctoral degree from University Osnabrueck, Germany in 1994. He joined PolyU as Lecturer in the same year. His current research interests include GIS, remote sensing, uncertainty and spatial data quality, and image processing for high resolution satellite images.
