
[date]2007.10.31[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Engineering holds Graduation Ceremony[/title]
Faculties and schools of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are organising their own graduation ceremonies in addition to joining the University Congregation this year, with a view to give more recognition to individual graduates and further enhance their sense of belongings.
The Faculty of Engineering (FENG) of PolyU is staging the graduation ceremony for its five academic departments of computing, electrical engineering, electronic and information engineering, industrial and systems engineering, and mechanical engineering at the Jockey Club Auditorium on campus on 30-31 October.
The Faculty will send forth more than 1,800 graduates across a variety of disciplines, including information systems, e-commerce, software technology, electrical engineering, electronic and information engineering, Internet and multimedia technologies, manufacturing systems engineering, industrial logistics systems, logistics engineering and management, product engineering with marketing, mechanical engineering. The formal conferment of academic awards, ranging from higher diploma to engineering doctorate degrees, will be made at the University Congregation to be held on 1 December at the Hong Kong Coliseum.
Presided over by Prof. Alex Wai, Dean of FENG, the ceremony is conducted in six sessions each graced by the presence of a special Guest of Honour, who also delivered a congratulatory address during the ceremony. They include: Dr the Hon. Lui Ming-wah, Legislative Councillor; Dr Samson Tam, Chairman, Group Sense (International) Limited; Ir Edmund Leung Kwong-ho, Advisor, Parsons Brinckerhoff (Asia) Ltd; Ir Dr Lo Wai-kwok, President, The Hong Kong Institution of Engineers; Ir Dr Tony Lee Kar-yun, General Manager, Transport Division, KCRC.
This year, FENG is also celebrating its 70th Anniversary. Over the years, the Faculty has been offering a wide range of quality academic programmes to cater for the manpower needs of Hong Kong industry, and conducting research and consultancy to facilitate the advancement and sustainable development of Hong Kong. An exhibition on the development and achievements of FENG is also being organized on campus during the two-day graduation ceremony. 
