
[date]2007.10.25[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (25 October) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme".  The ceremony was officiated at by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. The six distinguished scholars are: Prof. Ba Denian, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Dean of the School of Medicine of the Zhejiang University; Prof. Shen Jiaxuan, Academy Member of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), and Professor and Director of the  Institute of Linguistics of CASS; Prof. Chang Kungching, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Professor of the Peking University; Prof. Chen Hongyuan, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Vice-Chairman of the Education Committee of Nanjing University; Prof. Dai Ruwei, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and President of the Chinese Association of Automation; and Prof. Xie Kechang, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and President of the Taiyuan University of Technology.
During their stay in Hong Kong, these distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, will be presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on PolyU campus. They will also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics. Prof. Ba Denian, a specialist in medical immunology and medical education, is currently Dean of School of Medicine of Zhejiang University, Vice-President of the Chinese Medical Association, and Honorary Director-General of the Chinese Society of Immunology and the Chinese Society of Biomedical Engineering. He is also Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Foreign Member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science in the United States. Prof. Ba has long been engaged in the research on tumor immunology. Having discovered the natural thymocytotoxic autoantibody, he proposed a hypothesis to explain the relation between hypertension and abnormal immune function. His pioneer study on the application of Lymphokine Activated Killer cells to the treatment of malignant metastasis has achieved great effects. His distinguished contributions to medical education and scientific achievements have won him numerous awards including the National Award for the Advancement of Science and the Achievement Award of Life Science for North American Chinese. 
Prof. Shen Jianxuan is currently Academy Member of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and Professor and Director of the Academy's Institute of Linguistics. Prof. Shen has been devoted to research on Syntax and Semantics, Comparative Grammar, Language Theory and more recently, Cognitive Linguistics. He has been visiting scholar of many universities around the world. With his great contribution to the study of Linguistics, Prof. Shen has been honoured with the title of 'National Young Expert with Outstanding Contributions'. He is now Executive Member of the Permanent International Committee of Linguists, representing China, and Editor-in-chief of Chinese journals Contemporary Linguistics and Chinese Language Studies, member of the Editorial Committee of the French journal Cahiers de Linguistique Asie Orientale and Honorary Advisor of the journal Discourse Studies. 
Renowned Mathematics expert Prof. Chang Kungching is now a professor of the Peking University, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Fellow of the Third World Academy of Science. Prof. Chang has made great contributions to the study of nonlinear functional analysis, partial differential equations, Morse theory and its applications to differential equations. He has published numerous papers and one of his most important research publications is Infinite-Dimensional Morse Theory and Multiple Solutions. His distinguished research achievement has won him many prestigious prizes, such as The National Science and Technology Congress Award, the National Natural Science Award, the S.S. Chen Prize of Mathematics, the Third World Academy of Science Award in Mathematics and the Ho Leung Ho Lee Prize of the Science and Technology Progress Award.
Prof. Chen Hongyuan is currently Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Vice-Chairman of the Education Committee of the Nanjing University, Director of the Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science of the Ministry of Education, and Member of the Standing Commission for Chemistry Division of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He has been engaged in research on basic electro-analytical chemistry and its application, bio-electrochemistry and biosensors, nano-electrochemistry and its devices, micro-total analytical system, chemical biology, and ultra-microelectrodes and bio-molecular-electronic devices. Having devoted his great efforts to the education and research of analytical chemistry for more than four decades, he has gained numerous awards such as eight National Science &amp; Technology Awards including Honor Awards.
Prof. Dai Ruwei, a specialist in automation control and artificial intelligence, is Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and currently President of the Chinese Association of Automation, Chairman of the Academic Committee of Sino-Canadian High-Tech Centre of Resources and Environment, as well as the Editor-in-Chief of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence. He has devoted to the research on automatic control, pattern recognition, artificial intelligence, intelligent control and noetic sciences, and has since 1990s shifted his focus of studies to intelligent control, handwritten Chinese character recognition by metasynthesis, and open complex giant system and its methodology. The book collection Intelligent Automation of which he was the chief editor has won the National Book Award. Besides, he has been granted the top prize of the National Science and Technology Progress Award and the Ho Leung Ho Lee Technological Progress Award.
Prof. Xie Kechang, a specialist and pioneer in the field of Coal Chemical Engineering, is Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and currently Director of the Key Laboratory of Coal Science and Technology of the Ministry of Education and Vice-Chairman of the China Association for Science and Technology. He has made enormous contributions to the technology development of coal gasification, desulfuration, and production of coal-filled polymers and acetylene from coal pyrolysis by plasma. As the forerunner of Coal Chemical Engineering, he has been consecutively selected twice as the Chief Scientist for the national '973 Project' on coal pyrolysis, gasification and application of all-round production and has won the National Award for Science and Technology.  
