
[date]2008.05.29[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Design stages eyes-wide-opening Annual Show[/title]
Ms Alice Mak Ka-pik, Creator of McMug and McDull and School of Design alumnus; and Prof. Lorraine Justice, Director of School of Design, yesterday (29 May) jointly kicked off The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Design (PolyU Design) Annual Show at a ceremony held at the InnoCentre. 
Apart from showcasing the final year projects and industry collaborative projects of PolyU Design's Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Design, Higher Diploma in Multimedia Design and Technology, and Higher Diploma in Product Innovation Technologies, it also staged the graduation show of the associate degree design students of the PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Prof. Justice said, 'The Show displays students' final year projects which demonstrate their creativity and passion for design. They have spent nearly a year to work on the projects, starting from market research, generation of ideas to putting them into a product.' 
'I wish that the audience, and employers in particular, would see the uniqueness, originality, aestheticism, craftsmanship and functionality from the works of our students.'      
Themed 'Eyes Wide Open', the Annual Show will be showcasing the creative works from the latest cohort of graduates in Advertising, Environment and Interior, Industrial and Product, Multimedia, and Visual Communications Design. More than 300 individual and industry collaboration projects will be on display.  It is also the first cohort of students from the School's advertising design study stream to exhibit their works at this Show.
Special points of interest of the Show include PolyU Design's collaborative projects with APM shopping mall, Airport Authority Hong Kong, Boys' and Girls' Clubs Association of Hong Kong. 
The Annual Show is free and open to members of the public with details as follows:
Dates and Hours:29 May 2008     :  5.00 p.m. ' 8.00 p.m.30 May ' 12 June 2008:  10.00 a.m. - 8.00 p.m.Exhibition venue: InnoCentre (Ground Floor, 72 Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon Tong) 
Being the sole provider of design education at tertiary level in Hong Kong, PolyU has been an important hub of design education and research over the years. The School of Design, ranked among the top 60 in the world in a BusinessWeek poll, is poised to play a key role in nurturing new generations of designers and driving the design industry in the region. 
To further drive the development of Hong Kong as a design hub in Asia, and provide additional space to facilitate multidisciplinary collaboration, a new complex will be built on campus. The complex, tentatively named 'Innovation Tower', will be the first permanent architectural work in Hong Kong of Ms Zaha Hadid, one of the most influential figures in the world of modern architecture. It is targeted for completion by end 2011. 
Famous designers who graduated from PolyU Design include world-renowned fashion designer Ms Vivienne Tam, Oscar-winner and Supervising Animator for Shrek Mr Raman Hui, founder of international luxury jewellery brand Qeelin Mr Dennis Chan, and Partner of Kan &amp; Lau Design Consultants Mr Freeman Lau. Outstanding design of the School's graduating students has won prestigious awards, including HK4As Students Awards 2007 (Association of Accredited Advertising Agents of Hong Kong) and Asia Photo Awards 2007. 
