
[date]2007.12.07[/date]
[title]High achievers of HKCyberU master’s programmes win scholarships[/title]
The PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong CyberU (HKCyberU) has recently presented scholarships to its master's degree students who attained distinguished academic performance in the year 2006/07. 
This year, a total of 20 students were presented with the 'Hong Kong CyberU Scholarship ' Outstanding Student of the Year'. These scholarship recipients came from a variety of disciplines including accounting, knowledge management, project management, software technology, e-commerce and information systems. This scholarship is awarded to the top students of the master's programmes based on academic merit.
Speaking at the award presentation ceremony, General Manager of HKCyberU Mr Timothy Ngan said, 'Being the online arm of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, HKCyberU has been offering high quality postgraduate programmes for working professionals to upgrade their knowledge and keep abreast of the latest development in their professions. Each year, we present The Outstanding Student of the Year awards to recognize the high achievers of our programmes.' 
'In 2005, HKCyberU formed our own alumni association which serves as an excellent platform for our alumni and students to network and exchange.' Mr Ngan added.
On the same occasion, Dr William Lo Wing-yan, Vice Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of I.T. Limited gave a talk on the topic 'From IT to I.T Limited' and shared his experience as a successful business leader. Some 60 HKCyberU alumni and students attended the event and had fruitful exchanges on the topic.
Established in 2000, HKCyberU is the first web-based learning platform in Hong Kong with a focus on delivering postgraduate programmes leading to PolyU and non-local awards. It now partners with over 10 renowned institutions from Australia, the Chinese Mainland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom to offer postgraduate programmes leading to non-local awards. HKCyberU adopts a 'blended mode' of study, combining the flexibility of web-based learning with personal guidance through face-to-face tutorials. It has accumulated a student enrolment of over 8,000, including part-time and visiting students. 
