
[date]2008.04.28[/date]
[title]SPEED’s Business Innovation Awards Presentation Ceremony[/title]
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University today (26 April) announced the winners of its Business Innovation Awards 2008.  This year, contestants were asked to create a business proposal and contribute innovative ideas on how Ocean Park can reap the benefits of cutting edge technology to enhance its brand. The competition was sponsored by the Ocean Park, Centaline Property Agency Limited and The Chartered Institute of Marketing, with EDUplus of the Sing Tao News Corporation as a co-organizer. 
The Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards of the competition went to the 'Oriental Strategist' team of the School of Continuing and Professional Studies, The Chinese University of Hong Kong; 'Revolution' team of the Hong Kong Community College, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; and 'IMHK' team of the School of Continuing and Professional Studies, The Chinese University of Hong Kong respectively. The Gold Award included $15,000 cash prize for the winning team, plus SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $15,000 for each team member. The Silver Award included $10,000 cash prize for the team and SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $10,000 for each team member while the Bronze Award consisted of $5,000 cash prize for the team and SPEED Top-up Degree Scholarship of $5,000 for each team member. The team 'Revolution' also won The CIM Marketing Award which was sponsored by The Chartered Institute of Marketing (Hong Kong) and received $5,000 cash prize. In addition, the teams 'Generator' and 'Y.S.T.' of the School of Continuing and Professional Studies, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, won the Honorary Mention of Ocean Park and Centaline Property Agency Limited respectively and both teams were awarded $3,000 each. Dr Jack Lo, Acting Director of SPEED said, 'In 2007, SPEED created this competition as a platform to unleash the business creativity of students. This year, we are very pleased to have attracted more than 60 student teams from nine higher education institutions in competing for the various awards. Through this competition, we hope the business sense of Higher Diploma and Associate Degree students can be further developed.' Comprising of academic and industry professionals, the judging panel selected the winners of the above awards based on the creativity, viability and practicality of the written business proposals, as well as the writing and presentation skills of the contesting teams. The panel of judges was deeply impressed by the originality of the contestants' ideas as well as their persuasive presentation. 
One of the judges, Dr W. K. Yung, Deputy Director of SPEED remarked, 'The business proposals submitted by the three shortlisted teams are very impressive and contain numerous creative ideas. One team suggested creating an Ocean Park PC game similar to Sim City, which can be compatible to PlayStation 3 and Xbox. This interesting Ocean Park PC game aims to arouse local and overseas online game players' interest in visiting the Park.'
The judging panel said, 'The contestants are able to fully utilize internet resources and use them tactfully. In view that Facebook is the most popular online communication platform nowadays, a team suggested creating a Facebook group called 'I love Ocean Park' or 'I want to visit Ocean Park immediately' where people can share videos and pictures related to Ocean Park. This will, in turn, stimulate more people to visit Ocean Park. Within the Facebook group, people can also organize gatherings in the Park on a regular basis and this will help build loyalty to the Ocean Park brand.' 
In addition, the contestants were keen to create business proposals for Ocean Park, a brand which has accompanied them for years. Also, the participating students were very excited about developing ideas from networking platform technologies, which gave them boundless creative dimensions. The competition also provided students a good opportunity to exchange and widen their business horizons.'  Established in 1999, SPEED spearheads lifelong learning in Hong Kong by offering short courses and programmes ranging from pre-associate degree to master levels leading to PolyU SPEED awards or overseas academic awards. SPEED currently offers 22 award-bearing programmes with student enrolments of over 3,000.
