
[date]2008.03.27[/date]
[title]Symposium sheds light on functional food and plant polyphenols[/title]
The health benefits of plant polyphenols will be discussed by leading academics at the third International Symposium on Functional Food, which will be hosted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on its campus on 3 &amp; 5 April 2008.
The two-day conference will bring together about 250 participants from six countries and territories to present latest research findings related to plant polyphenols. It will be officially opened on 3 April by Prof. Albert Chan, PolyU Vice President (Research Development) and Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Introducing the symposium topic, Prof. Georges M. Halpern, PolyU's Distinguished Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, said plant polyphenols act as anti-oxidants and they are good for 'healthy ageing'. He added that the last decade has witnessed a surge in the exploration of the nature, benefits, applications and even synthesis of plant polyphenols by researchers and food scientists worldwide.
The Symposium's discussion topics will be grouped by the sub-themes of tea, soy, cocoa, olive oil and wine. Theses areas are expected to be of interest to researchers of different disciplines as well as industrialists, policy makers and regulators, food suppliers, etc.
At the invitation of PolyU, many leading experts and academics will deliver speeches on different aspects of plant polyphenols and related research and development. Three PolyU researchers, namely Prof. William Chan Tak-hang, Prof. Halpern and Associate Professor Dr Wong Man-sau of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, will also present their findings at the Symposium.
During the first day of the Symposium Prof. William Chan Tak-hang will deliver a speech on the interesting topic entitled 'The Story of Green Tea: Chemical and Biological Studies of Green Tea Polyphenols as Anti-cancer Agents"; while his colleague Dr Wong Man-sau will present her findings on soy isoflavones.
In studying soy isoflavones and its bone protective effects, Dr Wong found out that diet containing crude extract of soy is effective in preventing osteoporosis by enhancing bone density and micro-architecture. Her study also suggested that genistein, which is one of the major isoflavones in soy, could enhance bone formation through modulating the actions of parathyroid hormone.
On the second day, Prof. Halpern will speak on the topic of 'Wine as Medicine' and review massive research literature related to the anti-oxidant property of red wine. The benefit of de-alcholized red wine will be also highlighted in his presentation.
While wine-making is required to bring out the beneficial anti-oxidant polyphenols of red wine, Prof. Halpern found that alcohol is not necessary to get the catechins and other phenolics absorbed by human bodies. He also estimated the anti-oxidant activity in one glass of red wine (150 ml) is equivalent to 20 glasses of apple juice.
The Symposium will concluded with a Poster Session 'Polyphenols: Analysis, Synthesis and Health Benefits' organized by young researchers on 5 April (Saturday), during which they will present and promote their research projects to conference participants.
The Symposium is also supported by:  The Croucher Foundation; The International Olive Council;The Hong Kong Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine Ltd; Modernized Chinese Medicine International Association;The Hong Kong Food Science and Technology Association; The Hong Kong Health Food Association;The Hong Kong Institute of Biotechnology Ltd; Hong Kong Dieticians Associations; American Soybean Association US Agricultural Trade Office, Hong Kong (American Consulate General, Hong Kong)Consulate General of Italy in Hong Kong;United Soybean Board;The Food and Nutritional Sciences Department of the Chinese University of Hong Kong; City University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong; The Hong Kong Nutrition Association Ltd; The Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks;Roche Diagnostics (Hong Kong) Ltd.
