
[date]2007.10.08[/date]
[title]PolyU President greets 139 scholarships recipients[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has awarded scholarships to a total of 139 first-year-first-degree students from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas countries.
The awardees include 29 outstanding local students who achieved outstanding results in the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by the international standards. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance per year ranging from $30,000 to $110,000, have been granted to the recipients.  
The University has also provided full scholarships to 100 mainland students who achieved impressive results in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination. This year PolyU received 7,300 applications from mainland students. Among them, nearly 80 per cent met the entrance requirements of state key universities. PolyU subsequently admitted 272 mainland students, as compared to 250 last year. They are attending a one-year foundation programme to prepare for first degree studies. In addition, PolyU has awarded full scholarships to 10 overseas students. The scholarship recipients were welcomed by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and other senior members at a tea reception held in their honour on the university campus.
This year, the University also receives a bursary of $440,000 from Hua Xia Foundation to support a student from Guizhou to study at PolyU. A cheque was presented to PolyU during the reception held yesterday (8 October) by Mr Ng Chung-kin, Chief Executive Officer of Hua Xia Foundation.
Addressing the audience, Prof. Poon said: "The University is as good as its people, and our scholarship recipients are undoubtedly an important asset to our Institution. I hope the scholarships have given you encouragement and support to embark on an exciting study journey at PolyU. 
He added that PolyU would afford each student with an opportunity to take up internship or participate in an exchange programme during their university years. By taking part in these schemes, students would be able to develop a global perspective and set sights on the whole world. 
Committing to cultivating its international ties, PolyU has developed an extensive network with overseas institutions. Currently, more than 285 students from 99 institutions in 19 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
