
[date]2007.11.16[/date]
[title]PolyU students show commitment for community services[/title]
About 1,000 students and staff of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have rendered their expertise and knowledge to various sectors of the community by participating in the latest Community Service Learning Programme. 
Since its inception in 2004, the programme was organized by Student Affairs Office together with more than 20 academic departments. Students were encouraged to develop their social commitment and responsibility by serving the community with their professional knowledge.
A special ceremony was held yesterday (16 November) on the university campus in honour of those exemplary community service projects.  Out of the 44 nominations, 13 projects were selected for their outstanding performance. The awards were presented by Guest-of-honour Mrs Betty Yuen, Managing Director, CLP Power Hong Kong Limited and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, to the students.  
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, 'We are pleased that our students have taken an active role in providing volunteer services to serve those needy people both in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Their spirit and sense of social responsibility should be positively acknowledged.'
One of the overall winning projects came from the Department of Health Technology &amp; Informatics (HTI). Students from HTI and the University of Pennsylvania provided voluntary orthotics service for more than 100 children with cerebral palsy in Dongguan. Students designed and constructed orthotics for the underprivileged children. Another group of students from School of Nursing reaped the award by joining hands with students from Xinyang Vocational and Technical College to organize an integrated health promotion programme in rural Henan. They provided health and nutritional assessments as well as environmental education through art workshops for more than 200 primary school pupils in Henan.
Yesterday's ceremony also marked the beginning of the Showcase on Community Service Learning Projects which is held from now until 17 November on the university campus. The Showcase displays the many meaningful projects launched in the past year. More than 600 elderly and disabled people will also join the showcase, which include activities like free health screening services, stall games, exhibition and performances. 
