
[date]2007.11.20[/date]
[title]PolyU unveils new TeleCare Technologies[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre (REC) together with other academic departments have successfully developed a TeleCare system to monitor the wearers' key health indicators and indoor activities around the clock. The system can also locate the wearers' whereabouts promptly through a positioning system using advanced telecommunication technologies.
This system is one of projects on technology for the elderly and the disabled funded by the Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. It is expected to further enhance special caring services for the elderly, especially those suffering from senile dementia, and other vulnerable persons in the home and community settings. 
The system was unveiled by Mr William Y Yiu, Executive Director, Charities of The Hong Kong Jockey Club; Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President; and Prof Arthur Mak, Associate Vice President and Head of the Department of Health Technology and Informatics (HTI), at a press briefing yesterday (20 November) on the university campus.
Speaking at the press briefing, Prof Mak expressed sincere gratitude to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust for supporting this initiative. He also thanked the Senior Citizen Home Safety Association for providing advice and assistance in testing and fine-tuning the system and colleagues involved for their contribution to this project. (please refer to appendix for the membership of Project Supervising Committee)
Led by Prof Mak, the research group is made up of members from different disciplines. The group is further divided into three teams and they are led by Dr Martin Chow, Senior Lecturer of the Department of Electronic and Information Engineering; Dr Zheng Yongping and Dr Raymond Tong, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor of HTI.
The team led by Dr Raymond Tong and Dr Yongping Zheng has developed a home-based system which includes a 24-hour central monitoring system with wireless sensors to monitor indoor activities and identify the abnormal pattern through the lack of activities of the users, and a set of wearable ear-borne and wrist-borne vital sign sensors to continuously monitor real-time heart rate, body temperature, and slight body motions around the clock. 
If any abnormality is detected, the system will automatically activate outgoing links to relevant parties such as physicians, social workers or family members. This wearable device also won a Silver Medal in the 54th World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology (also known as the Eureka Exhibition) of Brussels in 2005.
In developing the TeleCare System, PolyU researchers also took into consideration that elderly persons with senile dementia are prone to get lost and their family members are very concerned with their whereabouts. To address this need, Dr Martin Chow and his team have developed a portable device using advanced telecommunication technologies of global positioning, cellular phone and radio-frequency beacon to help accurately and efficiently locate a missing person with dementia in both indoor and outdoor settings.
With the support of Senior Citizen Home Safety Association, the system was tested to be effective. The University has also filed a patent for this technology.
