
[date]2008.05.16[/date]
[title]PolyU receives $6M software donation from Autodesk[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently received HK$6 million worth of software donation from Autodesk to enable students in the building disciplines to keep abreast of Building Information Modeling in building and civil engineering projects and support their future research activities.
This donation also marked the beginning of a long-term collaboration between PolyU and Autodesk. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Ms Margery Yeung, Regional Director, Hong Kong and Taiwan, Autodesk Far East Ltd; and Prof. Teng Jin-guang, Dean of PolyU Faculty of Construction and Land Use, at a special ceremony held yesterday (16 May) on PolyU campus. 
Expressing his gratitude, Prof. Teng Jin-guang said this donation from Autodesk does not only signifies the continuous support of industry towards PolyU, but also provides a strong boost to the teaching and research facilities of the concerned department.
'Our students will be equipped with knowledge and skills in the areas of Building Information Modeling, web-based project management and civil engineering project design and implementation. They will be in a better position to rise to the challenges posed by the forthcoming ten mega infrastructure projects in Hong Kong, and contributing to the sustainable development of the architecture, engineering and construction industries,' Prof. Teng added.
Under the donation agreement, a total of 31 licenses of professional software, including Autodesk Revit Suite 2008, Autodesk Civil 3D 2008 and Buzzsaw would be provided to PolyU BRE for free, for a period of two years. 
PolyU will offer training to its students on the operation and application of the professional software, with the ultimate aim of enhancing their learning effectiveness. It is targeted that a total of 200 students will complete the relevant training by the end of 2009. In addition, Dr Andy Wong, Associate Professor of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate, will lead a professional group to embark on research projects on Building Information Modeling.
