
[date]2007.11.12[/date]
[title]PolyU holds gala dinner in celebration of 70th anniversary[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a glittering gala dinner in celebration of its 70th anniversary at the Grand Hall of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre last Friday (9 November).  The memorable occasion was attended by the Chief Executive and PolyU Chancellor Dr Donald Tsang Yum-kuen, who was the Guest of Honour; Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. More than 2,000 friends and members of PolyU joined the spectacular event. 
Also officiating at the occasion were Mr Lu Xinhua, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China in the HKSAR; Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of Liaison Office of The Central People's Government in the HKSAR; Dr Allen Lee Peng-fei, Former Council Chairman of PolyU; Dr Tung Chee-chen, PolyU Court Chairman; Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Council Chairman and President of the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; Mr Joseph Lo Kin-ching, PolyU Council Treasurer; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President and 70th Anniversary Celebrations Organizing Committee Executive Chairman; Mrs Katherine Ngan, Chairperson of the 70th Anniversary Dinner Organizing Committee; Mrs Nina Lam, Vice Chairperson of the 70th Anniversary Dinner Organizing Committee; and diamond sponsors of the event Mr Jimmy Tang, Managing Director of Prince Jewellery &amp; Watch and Mr Jerry Tang, CEO of Carl F. Bucherer.
Speaking at the dinner, Mr Victor Lo gave a brief account of PolyU's history and recent achievements. When looking ahead, he asserted, 'The future may be unknown to us, but what we can be assured of is PolyU's commitment to become a world-class application-oriented institution.'  
Prof Poon remarked, 'Over the years, PolyU's outstanding performance, particularly in fulfilling our role as a university with an applied focus in teaching and research, has been widely recognized, not only by the University Grants Committee, but also by employers and the public at large.' He also paid tribute to the leadership of the past and present Council Chairmen, Principals and Directors of the Institution over its 70 years of proud history. 
A highlight of the dinner was the pledge of PolyU's strong support for the Chinese athletes in the 2008 Olympics by a team of students led by famous artist and songbird Miss Miriam Yeung, PolyU's Honorary Fellow of Faculty of Health and Social Sciences. Designated by the China Sports Bureau's Gymnastic Management Centre as its Sports Health and Rehabilitation Centre and a collaborative research partner for the Beijing Olympics, PolyU is sending experts from the Faculty to help prepare the Chinese athletes for the Games.
During the dinner, international movie star and Hong Kong Tourism Ambassador Prof. Jackie Chan, also Honorary Professor of PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management, also extended his best wishes to the University through a pre-recorded video in lieu of his presence. 
The banquet was further spiced with a variety of exhilarating performances, including drumming, singing, animation show and a 70-person grand parade. In addition, alumni from different generations shared their reminiscence of their study at the Institution. An exciting auction hosted by Dr Roy Chung Chi-ping, PolyU Court member and Chairperson of Fundraising Committee, heightened the atmosphere before the dinner jubilantly ended. 
The Anniversary Dinner, which marks the climax of the year-long celebratory activities of PolyU's 70th anniversary, has raised a total of $7.2million. Proceeds will be contributed toward the University's Student Development Fund for supporting future projects and activities focusing on student development.
Founded in 1937, the Government Trade School progressed to become the Hong Kong Technical College after World War II, and was eventually named the Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1972. Since late 1994, PolyU has become a fully-fledged university of fine repute. The Institution has so far groomed some 250,000 graduates. Currently, PolyU has six faculties and two schools, offering a wide range of programmes at undergraduate, postgraduate and sub-degree levels.
