
[date]2007.11.09[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Global CEO Forum and Higher Education Management Forum[/title]
More than 600 CEOs, senior executives, academic leaders and senior university administrators are attending the Global CEO Forum and Higher Education Management Forum hosted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 9 to 10 November at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. 
These events, which are both major activities of PolyU's 70th Anniversary celebrations, were jointly kicked off yesterday (9 November) by Mr John Tsang, Financial Secretary of the HKSAR Government; the Hon Victor Lo, Chairman of PolyU Council; Mr Chan Tze-ching, PolyU Council Member and Honorary Chairman of the Forum; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
While the Global CEO Forum is themed on 'Bridging China to the World: Opportunities and Challenges'; the Higher Education Management Leadership Forum addresses the strategic positioning and operational needs of institutions through the sharing of best practices at home and abroad.
The morning session of the CEO Forum started with keynote addresses by Mr Ronnie Chan, Chairman of Hang Lung Group Ltd; Dr Chang Xiaobing, Chairman and CEO, China Unicom Ltd. It was followed by a plenary session on 'Reshaping Corporate Strategies for Chinese mainland and HK Markets'.
At the conference luncheon, Prof. K.C. Chan, Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury of the Government, shared his thoughts with the participants on the topic of 'Hong Kong's role in the Global Age'.  PolyU Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang was the moderator for this session.
The afternoon session of the CEO Forum was themed on 'Financing Sustainable Growth in the Global Market'. The keynote speakers were Mr Paul Chow, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Stock Exchanges and Clearing Ltd; Mr Paul C Lo, Chairman of Bank SinoPac; Mr Joseph CK Yam, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Monetary Authority; and Mr Zhu Qi, Managing Director and CEO, ICBC (Asia) Ltd.
The second plenary session was themed on 'From Local to Global: Strategies for Sustainability'. Keynote speakers include Mr Peter Bowie, CEO of Deloitte China; Mr Lawrence Ho, Chairman &amp; CEO, Melco International Development Ltd; and Dr Simon Leung, Regional President, Asia Pacific, Motorola Inc.
Concurrently, university presidents and scholars from local and overseas are attending the Higher Education Management Forum. The list of distinguished speakers included Prof. Tsui Lap-chee, Vice Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong; Prof. Peter H?j, Vice Chancellor and President of the University of South Australia; Prof. Gou Yih-shun, President of National Taiwan Normal University; Prof. Yi Hong, President of Southeast University; Prof. Jiang Chengyu, President of Northwest Polytechnic University; and Prof. Zhou Zude, President of Wuhan University of Technology.
To further facilitate university-industry dialogue, parallel sessions are run for participants to exchange their views. Participants of both forums also met again in the afternoon at two concurrent sessions on the topics of 'Emerging Trends for Public-Private Sector Collaboration: Academic and Business Perspectives' and 'Capitalizing on the Power of Innovation: Synergy between Academic and Business'. 
Most participants of the two Forums also attended PolyU's 70th Anniversary Dinner at the Grand Hall of HKCEC after a whole day of fruitful discussion, before they continued to exchange their views and ideas at the second day of the forums. Mr Donald Tsang, Chief Executive of the SAR Government, was the guest of honour of the anniversary dinner.
On Saturday, Mr Anthony SK Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology of the SAR Government; will review the territory's recent development in innovations and technology at the Higher Education Management Forum.
The International Strategic Technology Alliance ' an institutional network initiated by PolyU to foster applied research and technology transfer among 23 leading tertiary education institutions from the Chinese mainland, Australia, U.K. and U.S, also held its 12th Annual Meeting on the university campus.
