
[date]2008.11.20[/date]
[title]PolyU snatches six awards in the 6th International Exhibition of Inventions[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won six awards, including two Gold, two Silver and one Bronze Medal and a Special Prize in the 6th International Exhibition of Invention which was held in the city of Suzhou in China.The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
(1) Gold Medal and Special Prize: Eco-BlockInventor: Prof. POON Chi-sun, Department of Civil and Structural Engineering
The development of Eco-block by Prof Poon Chi-sun, Director of the Research Centre for Environmental Technology and Management, can be dated back to 2002.
Currently more than 300 tonnes of glass wastes and thousands of tonnes of construction materials are being disposed in Hong Kong's landfill sites. To alleviate this problem, Prof. Poon and his team has been working since 2002 on the recycling of construction debris for the production of Eco-block. The new generation of Eco-block are made from recycled waste glass derived from beverage containers and construction and demolition waste. The production of Eco-blocks is expected to alleviate the waste disposal pressure and minimize environmental degradation due to extraction of natural materials such as sand and stones.  More importantly, these Eco-blocks are proved to work in converting air pollutants into non-hazardous materials. Experiment results show that at least 20 per cent of nitrogen oxides can be effectively removed under laboratory conditions. The use of recycled waste glass in the blocks has, in particular, aided the air pollutant removal effect.
The use of Eco-blocks will become more popular in the territory as PolyU has recently received a generous donation of HK$2 million from HSBC Insurance to kick off a related environmental education and improvement project. It is planned that premises of 10 non-profit making schools will be paved with these Eco-blocks in the next few years.
(2) Gold Medal : FabricEyeTM - Fabric Structure Analysis and Appearance Evaluation SystemInventors: Prof. George Baciu, Department of Computing;Prof. Hu Jinlian, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
Developed by inter-disciplinary PolyU experts, FabricEyeTM is a fabric analysis system which is expected to bring revolutionary changes to objective quality assessment in the textiles and apparel industry. Using high-resolution cameras, the system first scans and captures the surface image of fabric samples. It then performs an automatic analysis ' grading the fabric on a five-point scale ' in accordance with the international ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) or other equivalent standards.
The captured images allow industry personnel to build up their own database for further analysis and production improvement.  The latest model of FabricEyeTM has been enhanced with two new modules with complementary functions ' one for fabric analysis of weave structure and the other for the appearance evaluation of knitwear. Since these procedures are traditionally done by manual inspection, this innovation can help raise the standard for the quality assessment of fabric materials in the textile industry.
This project was supported by $2.5 million grant from the SAR Government's Innovation and Technology Fund and is being undertaken by PolyU Computing and Institute of Textiles and Clothing researchers in collaboration with the Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel.
(3) Silver Medal : Design, Synthesis and Characterization of Flavonoid Dimer in Reversing Drug Resistance in CancerInventor: Prof. CHAN Tak-hang and Dr Larry CHOW Ming-cheung, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology (ABCT)
Multi-drug resistance (MDR) mediated by P-glycoprotein (P-gp), is a major problem of cancer chemotherapy.  Chemotherapy treatment fails because these proteins are transporting the drug out of the cells and render them ineffective. In order to tackle this problem, many drug companies are interested in developing an effective and safe MDR modulator that can be used clinically to reverses drug resistance among cancer patients.  A promising family  of MDR modulators is the flavonoids because they are commonly found in daily diet and have relatively low toxicity.  PolyU researchers have synthesized a series of novel flavonoid dimers and demonstrated that they can specifically reverse MDR in human cancer cells in vitro. They have further improved the efficacy of these MDR modulators by changing their chemical structures.  Several compounds now have an efficacy comparable to those of the most potent MDR reversing agents used in clinical trials.
(4) Silver Medal : Intelligent Tourism Demand Forecasting SystemInventor: Prof. SONG Haiyan, Associate Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM)
Jointly developed by PolyU's Public Policy Research Institute and SHTM, the web-based system is maintained by an expert panel led by Prof. Haiyan Song. The sophisticated system forecasts tourism-related demands in terms of tourist arrival, expenditure by sectors and hotel room nights. The forecast figures are available for 10 major source countries and regions, including Australia, Japan, Korea, Macao, the Chinese mainland, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, UK and US. Not only does the System measures incoming tourists, it also predicts the number of outgoing Hong Kong residents and their preference of tourist destinations in the next decade, providing useful figures for industry practitioners to project future demand. Using this system, industry personnel can generate different scenario analysis based on their own estimation of economic growth rate and fluctuation in currency exchange rates.
(5) Bronze Medal : A Design-Build Optimization Platform for the Construction Industry Inventor: Prof. LI Heng, Department of Building and Real Estates
Through the use of this platform or simulation system, Prof. Li and his team has tailored construction virtual technology to facilitate scenario planning for mammoth projects, thus enabling property developers and project managers to achieve better cost-saving and avoid unnecessary delays. The system is capable of turning 2D technical drawings into vivid 3D images of skyscrapers and other complex building structures with details of nuts and bolts. More importantly, it can mimic every step of the construction process through visualizing the workflow as well as the logistics arrangement. This platform is now being adopted by major construction contractors such as Gammon Construction Ltd and China Overseas Holdings Ltd, and has been put to good use in the planning process of many complex construction projects such as the Island East Commercial Building in Quarry Bay, Tseung Kwan O Sports Stadium (the venue for East Asian Games), and the Venetian Hotel.
