
[date]2008.07.29[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces latest education developments to mainland high schools[/title]
A three-day Chinese Mainland High School Principals Forum, organised by PolyU's Chinese Mainland Affairs Office (CMAO), was opened yesterday (29 July). With an aim to introduce to participants the latest developments of PolyU and the Hong Kong's education sector, the Forum has attracted the enthusiastic participation of 21 principals and teachers of 16 top-tier high schools from 12 cities in mainland China.
High school representatives from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Wuhan, Nanjing, Tianjin, Hangzhou, Xi'an, Shenyang, Harbin, and Liaoning attended the Forum to find out more on Hong Kong's education and economic environment, as well as PolyU's teaching and research developments. 
Welcoming the Forum's participants at the opening ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'Hong Kong is an international metropolis, and local higher education institutions naturally become the bridge for Chinese and Western cultural ties. PolyU, for instance, has faculties coming from all over the world. English is our language medium in teaching, studies and examinations, and this will certainly benefit our students' future development in the international community. Distinguishing itself from traditional comprehensive universities, PolyU offers practical professional programmes and conducts applied research, with a mission to benefit the community and mankind.'
The Forum consists of interactive discussions and seminars, with subjects including: 'Exchange between Hong Kong and Mainland China's Higher Education and High School Education'; 'Latest Development of Hong Kong's Economic Environment'; 'Hong Kong's Education Policy and Asia's Education Hub'; and 'Nurturing Practical Professionals'.       
Forum participants will also have the opportunities to visit Hong Kong's secondary schools to build up and strengthen the exchange between mainland and local high schools. In addition, participants will get to know the learning progress and the life of mainland students studying at PolyU in Hong Kong. 
PolyU has placed strong emphasis on establishing close links with the education sector in mainland China to enhance academic exchange and nurturing of talents. CMAO is established to further facilitate the linkages and collaborative relationships with the Chinese mainland, including student exchanges, mainland student recruitment, academic programme collaboration, staff exchanges and course material development.
