
[date]2008.12.02[/date]
[title]Workers should improve Putonghua Skill in current Environment of Dismissals[/title]
The importance of Putonghua proficiency assessment in a business context 
survey results show that employers may consider including test results as a criterion for promotion
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's (PolyU) Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies commissioned its Management and Executive Development Centre (MEDC) to conduct a survey on the importance of Putonghua proficiency assessment in a business context amid the economic downturn. According to the survey, over 50% of business leaders think that Putonghua test results are very important for evaluating the Putonghua skills of job candidates and employees. They would also consider including test results in performance reviews.
From September to October 2008, MEDC interviewed 197 companies. Over 90% respondents were senior executives, including Chief Executive Officers, Directors and Heads of Human Resources. 36% of the organisations had 50 staff or more, and the survey respondents were mainly engaged in the manufacturing, insurance, wholesale, import and export, banking, hotel and retail industries.
Ms. Edna Choi, Assistant Manager, MEDC, said, 'The survey results reflect that employers highly value Putonghua skills among their staff, and want them to have a high skill level. Although employees tend to have better English skills overall, employers say that Putonghua is nearly as important as English as a common language of the world, a catalyst to fasten business growth and a way to increase company competitiveness. There was a less than 10 percent difference between the proportion of managers who rate Putonghua as important, and those who rate English as important.'
According to the survey, over 85 percent of respondents agree that employees at all levels have to improve their Putonghua speaking and listening skills. In general, frontline and back office staff should improve their overall mastery, including communication, presentation, pronunciation, vocabulary/ grammar and intonation. Close to 80 percent of respondents think that Putonghua will be very important for business development and competitiveness in the next five years, and over 80 percent of respondents believe there is a need to improve Putonghua speaking and listening skills.
Professor Chan Shui Duen, Associate Dean of Faculty of Humanities, Professor and Head of Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, said, 'Recently, many staff have seen a series of dismissals occurring. In the survey, 53 percent of respondents requested that applicants list their Putonghua capability on their job application and resume; 44 percent of respondents would consider including Putonghua test results as a criterion for promotion. Therefore, workers should participate in public examinations to prove to employers that they are proficient in Putonghua and to make themselves valuable in the current economy.'
83 percent of respondents said they will encourage their staff to take a Putonghua proficiency assessment. Credibility and how well the examination content fits the industrial needs are the most important elements of the test.
Prof. Chan continued, 'There are three public Putonghua tests on the market. Of those, the one developed by PolyU focuses on Hong Kong people and individual industries. Compared to other tests which aim at accuracy of pronunciation and hanyu pinyin, the PolyU test is more suitable for locals. Our test takes into account the actual language situation in Hong Kong, and primarily tests applicants' speaking and listening capabilities.'
In 1994, PolyU's Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies started developing the Putonghua Shuiping Kaoshi (PSK), which was validated by the State Language Commission of China. The test focuses on the special aspects of Hong Kong people learning Putonghua, and tests their speaking and listening skills. To match the level of local people, PSK introduced 'two elementary grades' under '3 grades and 6 rankings' to effectively reflect the actual language ability of each candidate. Candidates who achieve the elementary grade or above are qualified to receive a "PSK Certificate" issued by PolyU.
PSK was initially available for undergraduates at PolyU. After years of development and editing, it has been publicly introduced to the commercial sector. The first test was conducted in November 2008. Over 70 candidates have sit for the test and they all think that PSK has a positive impact on their career development. 
Prof. Chan concluded, 'Given the current financial tsunami, employees should equip themselves to face the challenges. Putonghua has become one of the major international languages. A certificate from a highly recognised public test will help employees with their performance reviews and a certificate has already been included in many employers' recruitment lists.'
About PolyU's Putonghua Shuiping Kaoshi
PolyU's Putonghua Shuiping Kaoshi (PSK) is developed by the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies of PolyU. It is specifically designed to assess the Putonghua proficiency level of Hong Kong people. Tests include listening, judgment, oral reading, conversation and Hanyu Pinyin. PSK is a public examination which is officially pegged to the Putonghua Test offered by the State Language Commission of China. It adopts a standard assessment scheme and grading system. Candidates who are ‘graded' will be qualified to receive a "PSK Certificate" issued by PolyU.
