
[date]2008.07.23[/date]
[title]Elderly Mini-U stages fun-filled High Table Luncheon[/title]
Some 120 senior citizens participating in the Elderly Mini-U Programme jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Po Leung Kuk were reminiscent of their good old days at a fun-filled High Table Luncheon held last Friday (18 July) on the university campus.
Themed on 'Hong Kong Golden Oldies', the Luncheon was joined by legendary Cantonese opera singer Ms Ng Kwan-lai and famous artist Ms Helena Lo. The decorations of this luncheon and dishes served were tied in with the nostalgic theme, while guests and participants also dressed in clothes in the style of 1960s and 1970s. 
During the gathering, Ms Ng and Ms Lo also stressed the importance of lifelong learning in all walks of life and commended the students for participating in this Elderly Mini-U programme. They also encouraged the students to get the most out of this programme.
Jointly organized by PolyU and Po Leung Kuk for the second year, the Programme was again coordinated by the University's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS). A series of interesting and practical classes was designed for some 120 senior citizens selected by Po Leung Kuk. The students were given the opportunity to attend a ten-day foundation course, covering a wide range of topics on eye care, nutrition, grooming, financial planning, coffee culture, knowledge of Chinese medicine, table manners, travelling tips, Hong Kong history and culture. They could also choose any elective classes in English, Putonghua, computing and Chinese opera appreciation that appealed to them.
To further promote the concept of lifelong learning, a credit-bearing course has also been introduced this year. Designed and taught by FHSS academic staff, the course running from 18 June to 1 August is administered by PolyU-affiliated School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED). Under the theme of 'Health for the Elderly: Healthy Concepts and Practice', lectures on 'healthy ageing' from the perspective of World Health Organisation, mental and physical health of the elderly, effects of technological advancement on the elderly; common health warning signs; and approaches in living a healthy lifestyle, are delivered. Upon completion of the course, students can obtain three credits under SPEED's Credit Accumulation Mechanism. The credits earned would enable learners to study and accumulate credits for academic awards at their own pace.
This year, a total of 40 FHSS students are taking part in the Programme as student ambassadors. Apart from helping in the running of the Programme and assisting the elderly on campus, they are also given the opportunity to learn from the elderly's invaluable life experience. 
