
[date]2008.11.14[/date]
[title]PolyU students show commitment for community services[/title]
About 1,000 students and staff of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have rendered their expertise and knowledge to various sectors of the community by participating in the latest Community Service Learning Programme during the last year. 
Launched in 2004, the programme was organized by Student Affairs Office together with more than 20 academic departments. Students are encouraged to develop their social commitment and responsibility by serving the community with their professional knowledge.
A special ceremony was held today (14 November) on the university campus in honour of those exemplary community service projects. Out of the 53 nominations, 21 projects were commended for their outstanding performance. The awards were presented to the students by Dr the Hon. Lam Tai-fai, LegCo Member and PolyU Council Member, and Prof. Arthur Mak, PolyU Dean of Students and Associate Vice President.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Mak said, 'We are pleased that our students are becoming more active in providing volunteer services to serve those needy people both in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Their strong sense of social responsibility should be encouraged and acknowledged.'
One of the overall winning projects came from the Department of Health Technology &amp; Informatics (HTI). Students from HTI and the University of Pennsylvania. The students provided voluntary orthotics service for more than 50 children with cerebral palsy in Shungde. They designed and constructed orthotics for the underprivileged children. By creating four cartoon characters as the ambassadors of the 'Youth Employment Start (Y.E.S.)', which is a project launched by the Labour Department for youth employment, a team of three students from the School of Design also reaped the award. The characters are now widely used for various promotional souvenirs and publications of the Y.E.S. project.
Another winning project came from the Department of Computing. A team of 16 students helped improve computer facilities and services at a primary school in Chankou of Gansu Province. In collaboration with Jubilee Cares, the students helped the school to set up a new computer laboratory with computers and intranet, and provided information technology training to the school teachers and students.
Today's ceremony also marked the beginning of the Showcase on Community Service Learning Projects which is held from now until 15 November on the university campus. The Showcase displays many meaningful projects launched in the past year. More than 500 elderly and disabled people will also join activity of the showcase, which includes free health screening services, stall games, exhibition and performances.
