
[date]2008.10.23[/date]
[title]PolyU thrives on hard and soft powers[/title]
At the 14th Congregation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held today (23 October), University President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong urged the graduates to cultivate Soft Power as well as Hard Power in their life pursuits. This was the last Congregation Address Prof. Poon delivered before he retired from his 18-year Presidency by the end of this year.
In addressing more than 1,000 audience comprising mainly doctorate degree graduates and their families, Prof. Poon pointed out that with a clear vision of whole-person education, PolyU has made the cultivation of Soft Power and Hard Power its top priority. The two terms were first coined by Prof. Joseph Nye of Harvard University to explain international relations in 1990. 
Prof. Poon said, 'On a personal level, as one becomes increasingly learned and successful, or has growing Hard Power, one is prone to being self-important and obsessive and, with little regard for others, would tend to go to extremes. With great fame and success come great temptations. That is why we need virtue, wisdom and compassion as a counterbalance, so that we will not lose our sense of purpose or direction.' 
Prof. Poon also applied the concepts to form a framework in interpreting the recent achievements of PolyU. With regard to its Hard Power, according to Prof. Poon, the quality of both teaching and scientific research of the University has kept on growing over the last decade or so. PolyU has been a world leader in its output of quality civil engineering publications. The research output of its School of Hotel and Tourism Management ranks fourth globally. Its School of Design is among the top 10 design schools in Asia and one of the top 60 design schools in the world. PolyU also excels in research in many areas such as space tools, lunar exploration and liver cancer medication.
PolyU's Hard Power has also been strengthened by the contributions of its alumni to the University. Their support for PolyU's development and their love for their alma mater are borne out by the fact that they make up 80% of the University's donors. Over the past 18 years under the leadership of Prof. Poon, PolyU has raised a total of approximately HK$2 billion in cash and equipment donations plus Government matching grants of HK$450 million. 
The development of campus facilities is also conducive to the enhancement of PolyU's Hard Power. Prof. Poon said, 'Our teaching hotel scheduled for completion in 2010 will not only further improve the teaching quality of our School of Hotel and Tourism Management, but will also enable the School's experts to conduct field research related to the hotel industry. The Innovation Tower to be completed in 2012 will lend great support to our design teaching and innovation research. The PolyU Phase 8 campus development and its new student hostel will provide more facilities for our teachers and students, and will help us meet the upcoming challenge of the new 3-3-4 academic structure.'
As for the development of Soft Power, PolyU has encouraged its students to build their character and virtue by immersing themselves in arts and culture. It has also put great emphasis on its students' general education, which aims to develop students' global perspective as well as basic understanding of Chinese culture. 
'This year we have renamed our Faculty of Communication as the Faculty of Humanities and established the Department of Chinese Culture so as to enable our students to be more cultured. Through the new department's programme of philosophy and arts subjects, we also hope to deepen their cultural knowledge and understanding,' Prof. Poon said.
According to Prof. Poon, the University has also encouraged its members to care for each other as well as the society and to participate in the University's affairs as well as events for public goods. He said that the strength of PolyU's Soft Power was demonstrated by the responsibility and influence of more than 260,000 PolyU alumni in the society today.The synergy of PolyU's Hard Power and Soft Power is illustrated by its exchanges and collaboration with its mainland counterparts. Besides running degree or postgraduate programmes in collaboration with mainland institutions enabling knowledge transfer and students' career development on the mainland, PolyU has also offered its expert assistance at the Beijing Olympics and the post-quake reconstruction of Sichuan. 
'Strengthening our collaboration with our mainland counterparts is conducive to enhancing the quality of our teaching and research as well as securing the recognition we deserve on the mainland. More importantly, through their actual involvement, our teachers and students will come to love their country more and have a stronger sense of social responsibility. This will certainly enable them to make greater contributions to their motherland,' Prof. Poon explained.PolyU's effort to strike a balance between its Hard Power and Soft Power has shown results in recent years. The University Grants Committee has stated its recognition of PolyU's role in and contributions to higher education in Hong Kong, and awarded a performance bonus to PolyU. Moreover, PolyU graduates have been consistently regarded by local employers as their preferred choice for employees as shown by the results of image surveys conducted over the past few years. 
Prof. Poon concluded his Address by thanking the PolyU Council and Court, as well as the Government and various sectors of the society, for their support over the years. He also restated his never-ending love and support for PolyU and his concern for China. 
