
[date]2008.06.18[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Naming Ceremony of Anita Chan Lai Ling Building[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (18 June) dedicated a building to the late Dr Anita Chan Lai-ling in recognition of her longstanding support for education, community services and the development of the University.
At a ceremony held on the university campus, Mr Anson Chan, Chairman of Bonds Group of Companies; Mr Johnson Chan, Vice Chairman of Bonds Group of Companies; Ms Lily Chan, Executive Director of Bonds Group of Companies and Ms Zandra Chan, member of the Chan family, jointly unveiled the commemorative plaque in the company of Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council Dr Ng Tat-lun and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. Members and friends of the Chan family and colleagues of the Bonds Group of Companies and Chan's Educational Organization also attended the ceremony to witness this precious moment.
On behalf of the University, Dr Ng expressed gratitude to Dr Chan's family for their generous donation of $30 million made to the University. He said, 'The benefaction from the Chan family will be used to support the long-term development of PolyU and enhance resources for teaching and innovative scientific research.' During the ceremony, Prof. Poon also praised Dr Anita Chan for her strong commitment to education. He said, 'By naming a building after Dr Chan, it reminds us of her philanthropic spirit as well as her utter devotion to education. To reciprocate the generosity of the Chan family, PolyU will continue to provide quality education and invest in research and innovation that we hope would contribute to the well-being of the society and the country.'
Inspired by her late husband Dr Seaker Chan's ideals and honourable conduct, Dr Anita Chan mustered her courage and founded the Chan's Educational Organization. She was determined that this educational body would provide students with a complete education so that they can develop moral integrity, wisdom, good health, sociability and a sense of beauty. She also adopted an entrepreneurial spirit in the management of the Organization to ensure all units achieve high standard of quality and efficiency and meet the ever-changing needs of society. With her exceptional enthusiasm and able leadership, the Organization has thrived and flourished in the territory. 
Dr Chan was more than a zealous educator. With a dedication to building a better living environment, Dr Chan actively engaged in community services and in promoting the cause of philanthropy. Since the 60s, she had struggled hard to advance the welfare of the community in North Point, where her work was widely praised and gratefully recognized. She was also a major supporter of the charitable fund-raising campaigns of The Community Chest of Hong Kong.
Ever since she joined the Community Chest in 1978, Dr Chan had contributed to the development of the Campaign with unwavering dedication. Under her chairmanship, the Chest's 'Walks for Millions' once got into the Guinness Book of Records, so successfully did she encourage mass participation among the people of Hong Kong. Her efforts have ensured that the Chest has continued to beat its own records for fund-raising over the years. 
Dr Chan's contribution to the society had earned her list of honours over the years. She was made a Justice of the Peace in 1983 and was awarded an MBE in 1990. In addition, she was conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Science by PolyU in 1997.
