
[date]2008.10.20[/date]
[title]PolyU forges alliance with Australia's top university[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has further strengthened its academic network worldwide, following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with The University of Sydney today (20 October). 
The MoU was signed at a special ceremony held on PolyU campus by Prof. Suleyman Demokan, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU; Prof. George Woo, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS); Prof. John Hearn, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (International) of The University of Sydney; and Prof. Gwynnyth Llewellyn, Dean of the University of Sydney's Faculty of Health Sciences. 
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Demokan remarked, 'PolyU is proud to partner with the University of Sydney for a long-term collaboration. We believe that our academic staff and students can learn from each other by exchanging their expertise and broaden their vision especially in the field of health sciences.'
Under the agreement, FHSS and the University of Sydney's Faculty of Health Sciences will formulate a reciprocal exchange programme in which students of both institutions can gain a deeper understanding in the disciplines of physiotherapy, occupational therapy, vision sciences and radiography. In addition, the MoU outlines plans for clinical exchange placements for coursework students, staff overseas attachments, as well as the sharing of scientific materials and information. 
In the long run, to encourage more academic exchange and promote a global network of health, the two faculties have agreed to explore possibilities for further collaboration in research, organising a joint research symposium in the region, and introducing other cross-institutional initiatives in teaching and learning.   
FHSS offers a wide spectrum of programmes in health care, social and human services disciplines. As the sole provider of tertiary education in optometry, occupational therapy, physiotherapy and radiography in Hong Kong, the Faculty has been committed to grooming professionals in providing quality health care services to the community at large.
Established in 1850, The University of Sydney is the first university in Australia and has an international reputation for outstanding teaching and research excellence. According to the UK's Times Higher Education Supplement World University Rankings published recently, the University was ranked 37th in the world. 
