
[date]2008.11.19[/date]
[title]PolyU greets National Gymnastic Team on campus[/title]
A 24-strong delegation of national gymnasts is warmly welcomed by staff and students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) during their historical visit to the Institution today (19 November).
Led by Mr Lu Shanzhen, Deputy Director of the Gymnastics Administrative Center of the General Administration of Sport of China (GASC), the delegation members include Mr Chen Yibing, Miss Cheng Fei, Mr Dong Zhendong, Miss He Ning, Mr Huang Xu, Mr Lu Bo, Miss Xiao Sha, Mr Xiao Qin, Miss Yang Yilin, Mr Zou Kai; and trampoline players Mr Dong Dong, Miss He Wenna, Mr Lu Chunlong and Miss Huang Shanshan.
The whole-day visit commenced with a Welcoming Ceremony hosted by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and joined by University Management.  Prof. Poon said PolyU is privileged and honoured by the presence of the sports stars. He added that this activity would help students better understand the development of sports and the country as well.
The delegates also attended the signing of an agreement by Prof. Poon and Mr Zhao Yinggang, Director General of the Winter Sports Administrative Centre of GASC. Under this agreement, PolyU will be conferred with the titles of designated research and technology partner and designated rehabilitation unit for the 2010 Winter Olympics. The University will render its expertise to help the national team prepare for the Games.
The Welcoming Ceremony is followed by an on-campus open forum titled 'Top National Gymnasts in Dialogue with PolyU community', during which many enthusiastic PolyU students have the opportunity of meeting the athletes face-to-face and asked about the relentless efforts behind their success stories.
The gymnasts then moved to the Kowloon Park's Indoor Sports Centre to stage a friendship performance to some 500 university and secondary students in the afternoon. The audience is overwhelmed with their spectacular performance which covered the items of floor exercises, pommel horse, rings, balance beam, trampoline, horizontal bar and vault.
PolyU enjoys close relationships with national sports authorities. Since 2005, the University has been working closely with national artistic gymnastics and tennis squads. In 2006, PolyU further became a partner in research and technology development of the Chinese Olympic Committee and in 2007 a long-term collaborative partner of National Sports Training Centre. Its Faculty of Health and Social Sciences also sent its experts in a broad range of disciplines such as nursing, rehabilitation science and therapies, optometry, health technology, and sports therapy to help the athletes prepare for the Beijing Olympics. 
PolyU is now offering clinical, training and research services in integrated sports medicine, sports science and sports health for elite athletes, sports-related industries, and the general public through The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre. The Centre was jointly established PolyU and the Chinese University of Hong Kong with a generous donation of $88.72 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust.
