
[date]2008.07.15[/date]
[title]PolyU celebrates Naming of Squina International Centre for Infection Control[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (15 July) named its Centre for Infection Control after Squina International Group Limited in acknowledgement of its donation of $2 million to the University and support for the Centre's activities.
The naming ceremony at PolyU was officiated by Mr Meng Qun, Deputy Director, Ministry of Health, People's Republic of China; Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung, Executive Council Member of Hong Kong SAR; Mrs Angel Siu-po Chan Lau, Chairman and CEO of Squina International Group Limited; and Dr Roy Chung Chi-ping, PolyU Court Chairman.
In his address, Dr Chung expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Squina International Group Limited. He said, 'This donated sum will be used in the advancement of the Centre for Infection Control. By pooling resources and expertise from various departments, the Centre is dedicated to developing better approaches to safeguard against communicable diseases.'
Both Mr Meng and Dr Leong concurred with each other that the donation would give a fresh impetus to the University's research on infectious diseases. They strongly believed that the Centre would serve as a platform for information exchange between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland in the area of infection control and continue to assume a leading role in the advancement of this specialism.
'Squina International Group Limited appreciates PolyU's efforts in promoting healthy behaviours and fostering a safe and healthy community. We therefore decided to make this contribution and we hope it will be beneficial to the community at large,' said Mrs Lau. Founded in 1994, Squina International Group Limited began as a sole agent and retail company of health care products. The company is well known for its involvement in community services.
Originally established under the auspices of the University's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, the newly named Squina International Centre for Infection Control is a breeding ground for evidence-based practice in infection control and a resource centre for medical and health care professionals and the community. It is a cross-disciplinary, technological, educational and consultative centre supported by various departments across the University.
Occupying an area of 120 square metres, the Centre is equipped with the latest facilities. Its equipment and infrastructure enable researchers, staff and students to conduct research to detect and investigate health problems, implement infection prevention and control strategies, and provide training programmes. There is also an experimental and research laboratory that can be used for the design of new products for infection control.
The Centre's research projects include a novel surveillance system for hand washing using radio frequency identification (RFID) technology; a personal chamber for infection control in hospital settings; and sustainable immunized building. In 2004, its invention 'Hospital Bed for SARS Ward with Special Air Curtain Protection for Medical Workers' won the Bronze Award at the 5th China International Exhibition of Inventions.
