
[date]2008.11.17[/date]
[title]PolyU co-hosts 86th Textile Institute World Conference[/title]
More than 400 delegates from all over the world will attend the 86th Textile Institute World Conference, which is being held in Hong Kong from 18 to 21 November at the Hong Kong International Trade and Exhibition Centre.
Themed 'Fashion and Textiles: Heading towards New Horizons', the four-day conference is jointly organized by The Textile Institute and PolyU's Institute of Textile and Clothing (ITC). It will be officially kicked off by Dr Kenneth Fang, Chairman of International Advisory Committee, The 86th Textile Institute World Conference; Prof. Tao Xiaoming, World President of The Textile Institute, Head and Chair Professor of ITC; and Mr John Smith, Chair of International Events of The Textile Institute, at an opening ceremony on 19 November.
According to Prof. Tao, this important annual event provides an ideal platform for all those involved in fashion and textiles to exchange ideas and share information on ground-breaking new developments in the industry. 
The opening ceremony will be followed by plenary sessions where prominent industry practitioners and academics will deliver keynote speeches. They will share their views and experience in the specialism of fashion and textiles design, technology, retailing, marketing and merchandising. In particular, they will discuss how cutting-edge technologies can be applied to textile and fashion design successfully.
Many leading scholars and overseas experts have been invited as the keynote and plenary speakers of the conference. They include Prof. Robert Young, Head of School of Materials, The University of Manchester, UK; Mr Alan K. Prichard, Associate Technical Fellow, The Boeing Company, USA;  Dr Junichi Arai, Japanese Textile Designer, Japan; Dr Kenneth Wang, Managing Director of Sterling Group, Chairman of Alvanon Inc., Hong Kong; and Prof. Subhash Anand, Professor of Technical Textiles, The University of Bolton, UK.
Headquartered in Manchester, UK, The Textile Institute is a unique organization in textiles, clothing and footwear. Founded in 1910, the Institute was incorporated in England by a Royal Charter granted in 1925 and is a registered charity. The Institute has individual and corporate members in over 75 countries. The aims of the Institute are to facilitate learning, to recognize achievement, to reward excellence and to disseminate information. 
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of Hong Kong's fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities. The Institute celebrated its 50th anniversary last year.
For more details and programme of the 86th Textile Institute World Conference, please refer to its website at URL: www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/tiwc08.
