
[date]2008.10.28[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Business Stages Career Expo 2008[/title]
A total of 14 renowned business corporations and professional bodies are taking part in "The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Faculty of Business Career Expo 2008" which kicked off today (October 28) on the university campus. 
The two-day Expo was jointly organized by the PolyU Faculty of Business and Faculty of Business Students' Association (FBSA). The theme of this year is "Pathway to Success".
The participating corporations of the Expo include such renowned corporations and organizations as SG Private Banking, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, PCCW, Jebsen &amp; Co Ltd and The Institute of Financial Planners of Hong Kong. 
In addressing the opening ceremony of the Expo, Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of the Faculty of Business said, "I sincerely thank the participating companies and organizations for their support to our students and the event, which is particularly cherished under the current economic situation.　I also applaud the FBSA for its demonstration of leadership in organizing the Expo. Themed "Pathway to Success", I have no doubt that the event will facilitate our students to set off earlier on their path to success." 
Mr Cyrus Lok, Chairman of FBSA, which initiated the Expo, said, "The trainings provided by the Faculty's Work-Integrated Education (WIE) programme have raised the students' awareness of the need to start planning their future career before graduation. Therefore, we set out to organize the Expo and seek support from the Faculty to co-organize the event." 
"We would like to thank the Faculty and all the participating corporations and organizations for their support. We hope the exhibition can serve as a platform for students to have a better understanding of the latest developments and career opportunities in different industries and how to enhance their prospects to land a career in these industries," Mr Lok said. 
Apart from exhibition booths where corporations and professional bodies provided corporate, industry and career information, company talks and seminars were also conducted. 
In line with its value proposition of "Qualified for the Real World", PolyU Faculty of Business is devoted to quality business education and to cultivating leadership skills and international perspectives of future business leaders. The WIE programme is a required component of the Faculty's curriculum that equips its students with a minimum of 300 hours of work experience through internship placement. The programme not only provides students an invaluable platform to learn and develop in actual industry settings, but also prepares them for the real world through the provision of various training and development programmes, student career-related resources and networking opportunities with companies. 
