
[date]2008.11.13[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Business High Table Dinner Prepares Students for the Real World Challenges[/title]
PolyU Faculty of Business (FB) organised the fourth High Table Dinner on 11 November 2008 at the Hong Kong Club in Central.  95 outstanding students of the Faculty treasured the opportunity to interact with and learn from more than 70 business leaders.  The dinner was also attended by Dr Ng Tat-lun, PolyU's Deputy Council Chairman, Professor Arthur Mak, Associate Vice President and Dean of Students,  Professor Judy Tsui, Associate Vice President &amp; Dean of the Faculty of Business, and FB senior academic staff. The students also gained insightful advice in a panel discussion.
In view of the current global economic turmoil, an interactive panel discussion themed 'How to equip yourself best in the midst of financial tsunami?' was conducted.  Business executives gave attendants their forward-looking perspectives on challenges student would face, and provided useful job-seeking advice such as learning about the world economic development, having a right attitude towards work, sharpening their technical and soft skills as well as enriching their life experience by participating in charity works.
In the welcoming speech, Dr Ng appreciated initiatives taken by FB to nurture future leaders for the real world.  He also recognised FB's determination to organise the high-level PolyU DBA Nobel Laureate Forum in September last year and was excited to reveal FB's plan for another Forum next year.
Professor Mak was impressed by the efforts and tremendous resources FB had put in to develop its students in a holistic approach, and highly commended FB and its Students' Union's initiation in organsing an exchange visit to Sichuan University for volunteer projects related to Sichuan earthquake.
Professor Tsui cited various achievements and new initiatives of FB in her closing remarks. With excitement, she shared with the guests and students the fruits of FB's internationalisation efforts which included FB being ranked number 78 in the latest University of Texas at Dallas ranking exercise, EQUIS accreditation and the accreditation plan for Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) accreditation.  
At the end of the dinner, a year-three student whose hometown is in Sichuan shared her vibrant university life and how FB equipped her through its whole person development programme for the future.
The Faculty of Business' High Table Dinner was first inaugurated in 2005.  It aims to develop all round students, and create a platform for them to meet with outstanding business leaders.  A number of workshops were organised prior to the event including table manner, grooming and wardrobe consultation, wine tasting, communication skill  and global and current affairs.
