
[date]2008.10.30[/date]
[title]PolyU co-hosts international value management conference[/title]
More than 120 participants from the building and real estate industries are gathering at the 9th International Value Management Conference (IVMC) which is being held from 29 October to 1 November at the InterContinental Grand Stanford Hotel Hong Kong.
With the theme of 'Achieving Sustainable Values through Collaboration', the conference is jointly organized by The Hong Kong Institute of Value Management (HKIVM) and by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE). This four-day Conference was kicked off by Mr Yue Chi-hang, Director of Architectural Services Department of the HKSAR and Prof. Geoffrey Q.P. Shen, Head of BRE and President of HKIVM, at an opening ceremony held today (30 October).
The opening ceremony was followed by keynote and paper presentations by sharing of prominent academic and industry leaders on how to apply value management methodology in promoting and achieving sustainable values.  Speakers include: Prof. John Kelly, Morrison Chair in Construction Innovation, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK; Ms Ada Fung Yin-suen, Deputy Director (Development &amp; Construction), Housing Department of the HKSAR; Ir Thomas Ho On-sing, Vice President (Civil Engineering), Hong Kong Construction Association and Dr Wong Ming-chung, Assistant Director (Development, Research and Administration), Hong Kong Observatory of the HKSAR.
According to the organizers, IVMC serves as a platform for senior executives, professionals and academics to solicit professional opinions and exchange views in the fields of value management from experts worldwide. Through various presentations and interactive workshops, it is expected that participants from different professions would be empowered to master concepts behind value management and put them into practical use.
The Conference is a biennial event organized by HKIVM. Over the past 13 years, HKIVM has organized a total of eight international value management conferences which successfully attracted more than 200 overseas prestigious value management experts from 18 countries as speakers. This year, HKIVM co-hosts the Conference with PolyU's BRE to provide an opportunity for overseas experts to share their valuable knowledge and experiences with local professionals.
For more details and programme of the Conference, please refer to its official website at URL: http://www.hkivm.org/.
