
[date]2009.01.05[/date]
[title]Two International Journals Co-organise Symposium on Accounting, Economics and Corporate Governance[/title]
The Special CAR (Contemporary Accounting Research)/JCAE (Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics) Joint Symposium, co-organised by the Canadian Academic Accounting Association and the Asia-Pacific Center for Corporate Governance Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), was held from 3 to 4 January 2009 at PolyU.
About 200 renowned scholars, researchers and specialists in the fields of accounting, economics and corporate governance from overseas and local universities and firms came to the Symposium to exchange their cutting-edge research findings.  Insightful perspectives were discussed during research forums, HKICPA/JCAE practitioners forum, corporate governance forum, plenary paper presentations and concurrent paper sessions.
Featured speakers of the Symposium included Prof. Eli Bartov of New York University, Prof. Gordon Richardson of University of Toronto, Prof. Katherine Schipper of Duke University, Prof. Dan Simunic of The University of British Columbia and Prof. Ross L. Watts of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In the welcoming remarks, Prof. Timothy Tong, PolyU President, said, 'The Symposium truly epitomises what the University strives to achieve, which is  internationalisation, so as to be a global and world-class university in niche areas, with accounting being one such area.  It will no doubt bring my colleagues in the School of Accounting and Finance a step closer towards their goal to achieve high quality research and bring the best to our students by providing such an international and intellectually challenging research platform.'
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business felt proud to collaborate with CAR, one of the world's top four journals in accounting. She said, 'This is truly international collaboration that would create a winning formula for both CAR and JCAE.  The Symposium provides a platform for promoting interdisciplinary research, especially across accounting, economics, finance and law.'
Prof. Ferdinand A. Gul, Co-editor of JCAE and PolyU's Head of School of Accounting and Finance, remarked, 'We are very pleased to join hands with such a  prestigious accounting journal - Contemporary Accounting Research - to organise the Symposium.  I am sure the participants gain a lot from discussing with experts in the fields of accounting, economics and corporate governance.'
Prof. Michel Magnan, Editor of CAR and Lawrence Bloomberg Chair in Accountancy at John Molson School of Business of Concordia University, said, 'CAR is extremely pleased to host this conference in association with The Hong Kong Polytechnic University.  Being in Asia's key financial centre, which is also an accounting research powerhouse, is a testament to CAR's openness to scholars from around the world and a recognition of the support received over the years from its academic community.'
