
[date]2008.11.11[/date]
[title]PolyU and SichuanU review Post-Earthquake Relief Work at Forum in Memorial of Wenchuan Earthquake[/title]
Through the 'Sichuan Post-disaster Reconstruction Support and Research Centre', The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Sichuan University (SichuanU) have not only provided timely post-quake relief and reconstruction services for the victims, but also offered training for more than 3,000 relief workers and volunteers using the 'Training-the-Trainers' approach. 
To mark the half-year memorial of Wenchuan earthquake, PolyU has organized a Forum on Sichuan Post-quake Reconstruction on PolyU campus today (11 November). The Forum aims at reviewing the wide range of post-quake relief and reconstructive work served by PolyU together with its close partners in Hong Kong and on the Chinese mainland. It also explores the ways forward in helping quake-stricken areas to rebuild sustainable communities in future.
The forum was kicked off by Prof. Shi Jian, Vice President of SichuanU and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. A senior delegation from SichuanU has attended the Forum to share the insights and views with participants.
Speaking at the Forum, Prof. Angelina Yuen, PolyU Associate Vice President and Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences (APSS), said the University has garnered support from many academic and professional organizations, voluntary groups, local industries and businesses, which help optimize the usage of  limited resources. She also called upon members of the Hong Kong community to provide continued support to post-quake reconstruction.
The Centre has brought together inter-disciplinary expertise from PolyU and SichuanU, providing both short term relief and long term support for Sichuan in the areas of rehabilitation and health services, psychological counselling, community building, construction and engineering technologies, and economic reconstruction.
In addition, PolyU has recently enlisted the support of some 50 business and industrial organizations in the territory to support Sichuan entrepreneurs in rebuilding the economy of Sichuan. Heads of Hong Kong enterprises will provide one-on-one mentorship to their counterparts in Sichuan and help them re-vitalize their business.
Immediately after the 512 earthquake in Sichuan, PolyU promptly launched a campus-wide fund-raising campaign and raised over $3.5 million for the victims. The subsequent establishment of the 'Sichuan Post-disaster Reconstruction Support and Research Centre', which is jointly run by PolyU and SichuanU, also won $10 million support from business tycoon Dr Tsang Hin-chi, Founder of the Goldlion Group. 
