
[date]2008.11.20[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to five distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Five renowned scholars from the mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (20 November) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's 'Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme'.  The ceremony was officiated at by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. The five distinguished scholars are: Prof. Wang Enge, Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS); Prof. Wang Shouyang, Vice President of the Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science of the CAS; Prof. Xie Heping, Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE); Prof. Han Yingduo, Member of the CAE; and Prof. Yan Jia'an, Member of the CAS.
During their stay in Hong Kong, these distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, will be presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on PolyU campus. They will also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics.
Prof. Wang Enge is Founding Co-director of the Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Executive President of the Graduate University of the CAS, Vice-chairman of the Committee of the International Union of Pure and Applied Physics, Fellow of the American Physical Society and the Institute of Physics, UK. Prof. Wang has co-authored over 230 publications, delivered more than 60 talks, and taken out four patents on his research. He has won numerous awards, which include the Third World Academy of Sciences Award in Physics, the Humboldt Research Award, the Achievement in Asia Award and the Outstanding Science and Technology Achievement Award. 
Prof. Wang Shouyang is Vice President of the Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science of the CAS, Founding Director of the Center for Forecasting Science of the CAS, and Director of the Key Lab of Management, Decision and Information Systems of the CAS. Prof. Wang's research interests include decision analysis, financial engineering, logistics and supply chain management, and economic forecasting. Having published 16 monographs and over 180 papers in leading journals in Europe and the US, he has won numerous awards and prizes both locally and internationally.
Prof. Xie Heping is President of the Sichuan University, Chairman of the Sichuan Science and Technology Association, Vice-President of the Chinese Society for Rock Mechanics and Engineering and the China Coal Society. He is also Chief Scientist of the Expert Committee for the state key project 'Basic Research on the Safety of Key Engineering Projects in Disaster Environment' in the national '973 Program' and the Innovation Research Group of the National Science Foundation of China. Prof. Xie has long been dedicated to research in rock mechanics and engineering applications. Among his awards are the Second Prize of National Science and Technology Progress Award and the National Natural Science Award.
Also a member of the CAE, Prof. Han Yingduo is Professor of the Tsinghua University, Chairman of the Power Electronic Engineering Research Centre of Tsinghua University, Board Director of INESC-Macao. Prof. Han is an expert in electric power systems and automation and has been engaged in education and research on electric power systems and automation for years. He has made great contribution to security and stability analysis, control, optimal planning of long distance transmission systems and interconnected power systems in China. Prof. Han has published 180 papers and two books, and was awarded five research and education prizes at the State level and seven first or second ranked prizes at the provincial and ministerial levels.
 
