
[date]2008.12.10[/date]
[title]PolyU Launches Asian Competition Law and Economics Centre[/title]
The School of Accounting and Finance (AF) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a launch ceremony for the Asian Competition Law and Economics Centre (ACLEC), the first of its kind in Asia, on 10 December 2008.
The Ceremony was attended by Professor Mark Williams, Director of ACLEC, Dr. the Honourable Margaret Ng Ngoi-yee and the Honourable Ronny Tong Ka-wah, Legislative Councillors of HKSAR, and Mr Lester Huang, President of the Law Society of Hong Kong.  Professor Howard Davies, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programmes &amp; Professional Development) of Faculty of Business, Professor Ferdinand A. Gul, Head of AF and representatives from partner institutions of ACLEC also attended the Ceremony.
In the opening remarks, Prof Williams said, 'The establishment of ACLEC is an important milestone in the development of competition studies in Hong Kong.  ACLEC's world class partners will create an important resource for teaching, research, training and consultancy.  ACLEC will ensure that the Asian region can now educate and train legal professionals, government officials and business leaders to global standards.'
Dr. the Honourable Margaret Ng said, 'Competition is essential to progress; hence the need to safeguard openness and fairness in competition. I look forward to the early introduction of the Fair Competition Bill.'
The Honourable Ronny Tong remarked, 'Competition is the prime motivation for quality, equality and efficiency.  On the other hand, lack of competition is recipe for economic corruption of the worse kind. '
ACLEC has been newly established by PolyU AF in collaboration with distinguished partner institutions and notable competition law and economics experts from around the globe, to promote world-class teaching, research, training and consultancy in competition policy, law and related economics issues.
ACLEC's partners include Australia and New Zealand School of Government, The University of Melbourne and The University of New South Wales in Australia; Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in the Mainland China; the Max Planck Institute for Intellectual Property, Competition and Tax Law in Germany; Kansai University in Japan; King's College London, the ESRC Centre for Competition Policy at the University of East Anglia, City University London and The University of Strathclyde in the United Kingdom; and DePaul University College of Law in the United States.
For further information on ACLEC, please visit its official website: http://www.af.polyu.edu.hk/aclec/index.html.
 
 
 
