
[date]2008.09.03[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour four distinguished personalities at Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon four prominent figures in recognition of their outstanding achievements and contributions at its 14th Congregation to be held on 23 October (Thursday). 
This year's honorees include Dr William Fung Kwok-lun, Group Managing Director of Li &amp; Fung Ltd; Olympic medallist-turned-entrepreneur Dr Li Ning; Dr Tsang Hin-chi, Chairman of Goldlion Holdings Ltd; and Prof. Savio Woo, University Professor of Bioengineering at the University of Pittsburgh in US.
Dr William Fung Kwok-lun graduated from Princeton University with an engineering degree and earned his MBA at Harvard Graduate School of Business in 1970. He returned to Hong Kong in early 1970s and was instrumental in the successful public listing of Li &amp; Fung. In the public service arena, he has held key positions in major trade and business associations, including serving as former Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and Hong Kong Exporters' Association. He was named by Business Week as one of the world's Top 25 Managers in 1995 and one of the 50 Stars of Asia in 2000. Dr Fung has also rendered strong support to PolyU through his membership on the University Court from 1995 to 2000 and involvement in various initiatives. These included the establishment of scholarships for students and the setting up of a research fund to support the work of the PolyU-PekingU China Social Work Research Centre. He was honoured with the Silver Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government for his contributions to trade promotion and economic development. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration.
Dr Li Ning is one of the most outstanding Chinese athletes and a successful entrepreneur. In 1982, he won six out of seven gold medals in the men's artistic gymnastics events of the 6th Word Cup Competition. Two years later, he won three gold, two silver and one bronze medals in the 23rd Los Angeles Olympic Games. Since then, he has been known as the legendary 'Prince of Gymnastics'. In 1987, he further became the only Asian member of the Athlete's Commission of the International Olympic Committee. In 1999, he was voted one of the 'World's Most Excellent Athletes in the 20th Century' by the World Sports Correspondent Association. After retiring in 1989 from his career as an athlete, he established his own company and launched the LI-NING brand in the following year. His company has expanded in scope and scale over the years, with turnover exceeding RMB 4,300 million by 2007 and more than 5,200 retail outlets across the country.  He has also set an exemplary model for lifelong learning by completing a Bachelor's degree in Law and an EMBA degree at Peking University.  He also holds an honorary doctorate from Loughborough University in UK. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Humanities.
Dr Tsang Hin-chi is a self-made entrepreneur and famous philanthropist. He started his neckties business in 1968 and registered 'Goldlion' as a trademark in 1971.  With his distinct acumen, he has made the Goldlion brand a household name. Dr Tsang is very committed to public services. He was elected as a Member of the National People's Congress (NPC) in 1991 and served for three terms as a Standing Committee Member. He is also Life Honorary Chairman of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce. In addition, he has made substantial donations towards different worthy causes in the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong.  With his donation of $100 million, the Tsang Hin Chi Education Foundation was established in 1992 to support education development of China. In 2003, he further donated $100 million to set up the Tsang Hin Chi Manned Space Foundation. At the close of Beijing Olympics, he donated $100 million to establish a Sports Foundation.  His contributions were publicity recognized and the Nanjing Purple Mountain Observatory also named an asteroid after him in 1993. He was further honoured with the Grand Bauhinia Medal by the SAR Government in 1997. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Social Science.
A pioneering scholar in modern bioengineering, Professor Savio Woo L.Y. is the Founder and Director of the Musculoskeletal Research Centre in the Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering at the University of Pittsburgh in US. For over 35 years, his research has focused on knee ligament healing and repair, thus laying a solid foundation for the advancement of musculoskeletal biomechanics and engineering sciences, both in theory and practice. His work has contributed enormously to novel orthopaedic sports medicine and rehabilitation treatments that can lead to quicker and more complete recovery from athletic injuries. In recognition of his distinguished accomplishments, he has received numerous awards  - most notably a special Olympic Gold Medal together with the International Olympic Committee's Prize for Sports Science.  He also has the rare honour of being an elected Fellow of three esteemed academies, namely the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Academia Sinica. He will be conferred with the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Engineering.
 
