
[date]2008.09.08[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold the Sixteenth Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, held its Sixteenth Congregation last week on the PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated at by Prof. Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of Warwick Manufacturing Group; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President and Dr Roy Chung, PolyU Court Chairman. Mr Eddy Y.T. Chan, Commissioner for Innovation &amp; Technology, was the Guest-of-Honour.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon congratulated the graduates on the successful completion of the programme.  He said, 'The IEBMP has nurtured a significant pool of versatile and talented professionals with engineering and business management knowledge over the years. We are particularly proud that these outstanding graduates are taking up leadership roles in their respective fields and contributing their expertise to society in various capacities. PolyU is privileged to have partnered closely with the University of Warwick in jointly promoting quality education for the business and industrial sectors.'
Since its inception in 1990, the IEBMP has sent forth more than 2,000 local graduates.  The IEBMP is a unique engineering business management scheme comprising three tiers, namely Engineering Doctorate Programme (EngD), Integrated Graduate Development Scheme (IGDS) which offers Master's and Postgraduate Awards, and Integrated Manager Development Scheme (IMDS) which offers Post-experience Diploma and Certificate awards.
This year, the Congregation saluted a total of 84 graduates including one graduates of Engineering Doctorate, 81 from IGDS and two graduates from IMDS.
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management and advanced manufacturing technique. 
In recent years, the number of students from business sector enrolling in the programme has increased sharply in view of the economic change. Managers and executives from business sector are aware of the importance of understanding business operation and technology development of engineering and industry in enhancing corporate competitiveness. 
The success of IEBMP saw its expansion into the Chinese mainland. In 2000, PolyU joined hands with the Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) to offer IGDS programmes in Wuhan. A dedicated unit named the HUST-HKPolyU Institute of Manufacturing Excellence has been set up to explore further provision of training programmes in the mainland. 
