
[date]2008.10.31[/date]
[title]PolyU joins force with industry to support Sichuan re-construction[/title]
In a bid to re-vitalize the economy of Sichuan, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has enlisted the support of some 50 business and industrial trade associations in Hong Kong to support Sichuan entrepreneurs in re-building their corporations which were damaged by of the earthquake.
This initiative is a strategic action of the 'Sichuan Post-disaster Reconstruction Support and Research Centre' jointly established by PolyU and Sichuan University in June 2008.The scheme has provided opportunity for local business leaders to provide one-on-one mentorship to their counterparts in Sichuan. The scheme will also draw upon the expert support of both PolyU and Sichuan University in helping Sichuan entrepreneurs to re-position their business direction under the current scenario and devise an action plan to move forward. 
The co-organizer of this scheme Mr Sidney Wong, Associate Director of PolyU's Institute for Enterprise, is pleased to note that this meaningful initiative has received overwhelming response from local business leaders who pledged their support through the Professional Validation Council of Hong Kong Industries and the Professional Validation Centre of Hong Kong Business Sector. The long list of supporting organizations covers the industry of metal, machinery, jewellery, electronics, watches, textiles, plastics, toys, retail, services, etc. The Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce is also supporting this scheme.
The first batch of 11 mainland entrepreneurs are currently attending a five-day workshop. With support from PolyU and Sichuan University academics and leaders from industry, participants would review their perspectives on the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of their own businesses. They will be asked to think how to turn this crisis into opportunity, and then develop viable business re-development plan. 
These 11 Sichuan participants will continue to receive guidance and support by PolyU and Sichuan University experts as well as their respective business mentors from Hong Kong in the following year.Pursuant to the 512 earthquake in Sichuan, PolyU promptly launched a campus-wide fund-raising campaign and raised nearly $3.5 million dollars for the victims. The subsequent establishment of the Sichuan Post-disaster Reconstruction Support and Research Centre also won $10 million support from Dr Tsang Hin-chi, Founder of the Goldlion Group. On top of providing training support for frontline relief workers, PolyU also arranged a delegation comprising business leaders to visit the Province. 
PolyU is organizing a Forum on Sichuan Post-disaster Re-construction on 11 November on the campus to review its wide range of relief and reconstruction efforts together with its close partners in Hong Kong and on the Chinese mainland.  
