
[date]2008.09.18[/date]
[title]Primary Eye Care Conference puts glaucoma in focus[/title]
Leading optometry experts and ophthalmologists are gathering on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to present and discuss their latest research findings related to the assessment and treatment of glaucoma at the first Primary Eye Care Conference.
Jointly organized by the Hong Kong Association of Private Practice Optometrists (HKAPPO) and PolyU's School of Optometry (SO), the conference has attracted more than 200 participants from the academia and professional practices. It was opened on September 18 by Ms Sandra Lee Suk-yee, Permanent Secretary for Food and Health (Health) of the SAR Government.
According to the organizer, this Conference is launched with the objectives of enabling participants to keep abreast of the latest knowledge on primary eye care; and to promote a global perspective on the role of optometrists that fits the local environment.
Citing the Government's Health Care Reform consultation document, Mr. Kenneth Lam, President of HKAPPO, said optometrists could play a more important role in primary care. 'They are health professionals trained to provide comprehensive eye and vision care, such as eyesight correction and diagnosis of common conditions related to the eyes or vision.' 
'Greater emphasis should be put on preventative care, thus reducing the need for hospital care and less utilization of specialist and emergency services. This will contain the overall healthcare needs of the community in the long run,' he said. 
Prof. Carly Lam, Head of SO, said, 'The School of Optometry is actively engaged in research to understand the fundamental processes causing glaucoma.'
The one-day conference has brought together local and overseas experts to share their insights on a wide range of topics relating to glaucoma. In the morning session, Dr Do Chi-wai of PolyU spoke on the topic of 'Aqueous Humour Formation' in relation to glaucoma; followed by a presentation by Prof. Felipe Medeiros of the University of California at San Diego on the diagnosis, progression and risk assessment of glaucoma.
The afternoon session kicked off with a speech by Dr Murray Fingeret of the State University of New York on 'Clinical Insights into Treating Glaucoma'; while Prof. So Kwok-fai of the University of Hong Kong spoke on the 'Regeneration of Optic Nerve.' The conference concluded with a speech by PolyU optometry expert Dr Vincent Ng on the 'Contemporary Role of Optometrists in Glaucoma Care'.
