
[date]2009.01.20[/date]
[title]PolyU and University of Arts London organize international fashion exhibition[/title]
An inspiring exhibition combining photography and drawing into fashion is now staged at the Institute of Textiles &amp; Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). 
With a theme of 'When Photography and Drawing Meet Fashion', the exhibition is co-organized by ITC and London College of Fashion, which is launching its debut exhibition in Asia. Curated by Charlotte Hodes, Senior Research Fellow of London College of Fashion, the exhibition has grown out of the successful exhibition 'Drawing Towards Fashion' showcased at the College in 2007.
Through the display of the recent works of 17 artists, the exhibition seeks to open up the practice of drawing and photography and illustrate how each designer utilizes these processes for their own creative ends. The exhibition also highlights that drawing is often the invisible process within the creative field of fashion. By adding photography, a new and more ambitious exhibition demonstrates that both mediums are art forms in their own right.
The exhibition, which is now open for public until 13 February at ITC's Fashion and Textiles Resource Centre (MN109), presents an exceptional range of work from leading-edge design practitioners and is also part of an ongoing collaboration between PolyU and London College of Fashion.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
London College of Fashion is a constituent college of the University of Arts London. The College has an international reputation as one of the leading providers of fashion education, research and consultancy. The unique portfolio of specialist courses range in level, from Foundation to Postgraduate. The subject range corresponds to the process of the creation, production and promotion of fashion and the management and marketing of those activities. 
