
[date]2008.07.24[/date]
[title]Hong Kong and mainland secondary students gain real world knowledge through PolyU Summer Business Camp[/title]
One hundred high school students from 32 secondary schools in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland joined a four-day dynamic and inspiring summer camp organized by the Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), from 21 to 24 July on PolyU campus.
Themed with 'Passport to the Real World', which echoes the Faculty's slogan of 'Qualified for the Real World', the Camp sought to provide participants with an understanding of the business environment of Hong Kong, as well as to introduce them to regional and global perspectives, and to develop their leadership skills.
Mr Ken Wong of FB's Department of Management and Marketing, project leader of the Camp, said, 'Through various carefully selected activities, this Summer Camp presents an excellent opportunity for participants not only to better equip themselves with fundamental business knowledge, but also to enhance intellectual and cultural exchanges.'
This is the fifth year that FB has organized its summer camp. Since its launch in 2004, the summer camp has been warmly received by participating schools and students. This year, prestigious secondary schools in Hangzhou, Xian, Guangzhou and Shenzhen in the Chinese mainland also sent their students to the Camp which provided students with a valuable opportunity for cultural exchange.
The Camp featured a series of lectures by FB's professors on topics such as 'What types of people does the future global logistics industry need?', 'Market segmentation' and 'Corporate Social Responsibility'. Apart from the lectures, field visits to the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, Megabox shopping mall and the Hong Kong Maritime Museum were also arranged in order to enhance students' understanding of the business practice of the real world.
The Camp adopted a stimulating mix of leadership and business skill trainings and juggling games to help participants gain communication and interpersonal skills which are imperative in today's competitive business world. A Business Analysis Competition was held at the end of the Camp, in which students applied the business knowledge and skills they had learned during the Camp.
