
[date]2008.11.03[/date]
[title]Tin Ka Ping Education Fund to promote academic exchange in nursing[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) celebrated today (3 November) the establishment of the Tin Ka Ping Education Fund to support its School of Nursing (SN) in developing the 'Visiting Scholars from the Chinese Mainland Scheme'. 
The Fund was inaugurated by renowned philanthropist Dr Tin Ka-ping who has generously donated HK$3 million via the Foundation under his name to PolyU. Dr Tin was accompanied by PolyU's President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and Head of School of Nursing Prof. Samantha Pang. 
In expressing his gratitude towards Dr Tin, Prof. Poon said that the donation also generated a matching fund of HK$3 million from the University Grants Committee, making the Tin Ka Ping Education Fund a total of HK$6 million at the outset.
The Scheme aims at developing more academic collaboration in nursing education and research between the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong. It will offer mainland and PolyU nursing scholars with opportunities for academic exchange and sharing of academic achievements, enabling the development of the nursing profession in both places. In practice, mainland nursing professionals will be attached to SN as visiting scholars for three months.
Elaborating on the Scheme, Prof. Pang said, 'We hope that by providing different learning and sharing exposure to the mainland nursing professionals at the higher education level, the visiting scholars and the higher nursing education in the Chinese mainland at large can benefit from the practice and development of nursing education and research in Hong Kong.'
The Scheme will allow a maximum of 30 visiting scholars from the mainland to be hosted by SN in five years starting the second semester of the 2008/09 academic year. 
Besides giving lectures or seminars to SN staff and students, the visiting mainland scholars will participate in the School's research projects, develop education materials and contribute to other academic activities of SN. 
The Scheme is open to residents of the Chinese mainland in the nursing or related health science disciplines. Eligible applicants should be appointed by or affiliated to an academic institution or government-funded or non-profit making organization. Applications should reach SN four months before the commencement of the proposed attachment period, which starts in September or January.
