
[date]2008.06.25[/date]
[title]Malaysia Government Delegation Visits PolyU Faculty of Business for Collaboration Opportunities in Maritime and Shipping Logistics[/title]
Malaysia Minister of Transport Datuk Ong Tee Keat led a delegation of government officials to visit the Faculty of Business (FB) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 14 June, where they met with Hong Kong government representatives and senior executives of the Hong Kong maritime and shipping industry as well as FB academic members. The Meeting has opened doors for future collaborations in the field of maritime and shipping between Hong Kong and Malaysia. 
Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business, in giving welcoming remarks, said: "We are honored to have the Malaysia Government Delegation visit us. Today's meeting, attended by the government officials, industry leaders and scholars, is a real showing of academia-industry-government partnership."
The Meeting had fruitful discussions on issues such as competition and collaboration between ports in Hong Kong and Malaysia, and cooperation in nurturing talents for the maritime and shipping industry. 
The Malaysian Delegation members included Mr Lim Thean Sheang, General Manager and Board Member of Port Klang Authority and Mr Mohd Nur Ismal, Deputy Director of Programme Management Office of Ministry of Higher Education. 
Hong Kong attendees of the Meeting included Ms Janice Tse, Deputy Secretary for Transport and Housing (Transport); The Honorable Miriam Lau, Legislative Councillor, Transport Constituency; Mr M.H. Liang, Chairman of Island Navigation Corporation International Limited; Tan Sri Dr Frank Tsao, Senior Chairman of IMC Group and Dr C.C. Tung, Chairman of Orient Overseas Container Line Limited. 
PolyU FB's strength and uniqueness lie in its ability to integrate theories with business practices, true to its core value of "Qualified for the Real World".  The Faculty is committed to excellence in maritime and shipping education and research. Its Department of Logistics has been ranked among the best ten academic institutes in logistics in China. Further, the Hong Kong Government has donated HK$4 million to establish a Hong Kong Maritime Scholarship Scheme for the MSc in International Shipping and Transport Logistics programme at FB's Graduate School of Business. 
