
[date]2008.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU wins four awards in IENA Exhibition of Germany[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won two Gold, one Silver and one Bronze Medals at the 60th International Trade Fair 'Ideas - Inventions ' New Products' (IENA) held in Nuremberg, Germany.
PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing and the Principal Investigators proudly presented their medals today (1 Dec) at a press briefing held in the University's House of Innovation. They also explained the applications of these award-winning projects in different settings.
The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
(1) Gold Medal : Production of Bio-Degradable Plastics from Activated Sludge Inventor:  Prof. Chua Hong, Department of Civil and Structural Engineering
Environmental research found that the chemical polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), with its bio-degradability, bio-compatibility and suitable mechanical properties - is the viable option to substitute for petroleum-derived plastics. This material can be completely degraded to water and carbon dioxide, making them a green alternative to petrochemical-derived polymers. However, the large-scale commercialization of PHAs to replace commonly used plastics is hindered by the relatively high cost of production and raw material. With a view to solving this problem, PolyU researcher Prof. Chua Hong and his colleagues have been investigating the possibility of using industrial wastes as the carbon source for economical production of PHAs.
Knowing that micro-organisms in active sludge have been reported to accumulate PHAs as the intermediate metabolic products from the uptake of organic matters in sewage, PolyU researchers therefore studied thoroughly the wastewater treatment process together with PHA production. They found that after extracting the PHAs polymer, the quantity of active sludge disposed from the wastewater treatment process could be reduced. This will also reduce the cost of activated sludge treatment and at the same time lower the cost or producing PHAs. A pilot study in a dyeing wastewater treatment plant in Guangzhou has also shed light on the optimal operating condition for the production of PHAs from activated sludge.
(2) Gold Medal: Heart Rate Variability Pervasive and Interactive Audio-Visual (AV) Relaxation System Inventor:  Prof. Joanne Chung, School of Nursing
This cyber-looking gadget resembles the spectacles worn by X-Men Laser Eye Cyclos, but the handy and nice-looking system is no comics at all ' it can display images of gorgeous landscapes before one's own eyes, plays a soothing song or music, and measure your heart rate variation while you are taking a break and relax.
It is commonly known that stress affects one's immediate emotional state, mood and also bodily functions. The stress hormone upsets the autonomic systems of our body and endangers the health of our heart. Stress level can be measure by analysis of Heart Rate Variability (HRV) which refers to the extent of heart rate fluctuation and reflects the modulation of cardiac function by the autonomic nervous system and other physiological regulation systems. PolyU researchers found that a combination of preferred audio and visual media are useful and helpful for relaxation and the real time display of HRV analysis can also enables user to learn how to relax effectively.
This handy product is non-invasive, pervasive, interactive and expandable. The user can use it at any place, any time. The built-in memory is also capable of storing the customized results for many users for some time until the memory is full. The results can be analyzed and stored in a computer for future record purpose.
(3) Silver Medal: Plant Structured Textile FabricInventor:  Prof. Fan Jintu, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
In studying the water transport mechanism of plant, Prof. Fan came up with the idea of modelling textile fabric on the branch structure of plant. Plants not only possess the most important photosynthesis process for sustaining life; but also have exceptional water transport properties. The excellent water transport behaviour of plants is a result of its branching network, which results in a minimum flow resistance between the root and the leaves and creates a so called cohesion-tension mechanism, viz. negative water pressure in the leaves to suck the water from below.
This PolyU invention mimics the branching network in fabrics to achieve excellent liquid water transport properties. The plant structured fabrics have the following distinct features and advantages, including superior water absorption rate; excellent moisture management property; superior water transport property not deteriorated after repeated laundering; environmental friendly as little chemicals are used in finishing.
Prof. Fan is internationally renowned for inventing the world's first 'sweating' manikin. Nicknamed 'Walter', the manikin can simulate human perspiration and thus be used to test the thermal insulation and moisture vapour resistance of functional clothing.
(4) Bronze Medal: Smart TherapyInventors: Prof. Samuel LO Chun-lap, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology;Dr Mason Leung Chin-pang; Department of Rehabilitation Sciences     The method of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) is commonly used by therapists for treating pains such as arthritis joints. However, existing TENS devices have no sensing capability for pain indication. This PolyU-developed device can detect change of skin temperature as an indication of pain levels (established through clinical trails) to trigger electrical stimulation for pain relief. According to the result of an animal study, the optimal electrical stimulation has been proven to generate 40 percent more pain-relieving Beta-endorphin in the brain compared with conventional TENS devices. Furthermore, the temperature profile can be monitored at real-time to indicate the effectiveness of the treatment for users or physiotherapists to choose their optimal therapies. The therapeutic data can be also transferred for off-line analysis.
This innovation is the joint effort of an inter-disciplinary research team with experts from the University's Departments of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology; Rehabilitation Sciences; Health Technology and Informatics; Electrical Engineering; Research Institute of Innovative Products and Technologies; and the School of Design.
The 60th International Trade Fair 'Ideas - Inventions ' New Products' was held from 30 October to 2 November in Nuremberg. It provided a platform to display more than 700 inventions and product innovations from 29 countries.
