
[date]2008.09.17[/date]
[title]PolyU offers more choices of undergraduate programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be offering more multi-disciplinary programmes educating students to focus on complex issues of importance in society which cannot be fully explored by a single discipline and, at the same time, address the community's new need for manpower.
A total of eight new full-time undergraduate degree programmes funded by the University Grants Committee (UGC) will be offered by PolyU in the 2009-2010 academic year. Many of these new programmes are multi-disciplinary in nature, covering the areas of environmental and sustainable development, food science and technology, investment science, and transportation systems engineering. 
The BSc(Hon) in Environment and Sustainable Development (Jupas Code: 3375) is the first of its kind in the territory.  This programme not only covers the spectrum of environmental sciences, but also engineering and management, economics, health and public policy. Students will be empowered to devise practical solutions to environmental problems and contribute to the formulation of sustainable development policy.
On the other hand, the new BEng(Hons) in Transportation Systems Engineering (Jupas Code: 3351) has integrated the disciplines of electrical engineering and civil engineering to broaden the career opportunities of graduates. Students will be groomed to incorporate up-to-date engineering knowledge in enhancing the efficiency, reliability and safety of transport infrastructures and services.
In view of strong demand from the community, two popular articulation programmes have been further expanded to a three-year, multi-disciplinary curriculum structure. These include the BSc(Hon) in Investment Science (Jupas Code: 3363) jointly offered by the University's Department of Applied Mathematics and the School of Accounting and Finance; and the BSc(Hon) in Food Safety and Technology (Jupas Code: 3349) offered by the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology.
Some new programmes are of a single discipline, and are introduced because they will meet a great community need. For instance, the School of Nursing will offer a BSc(Hons) in Mental Health Nursing (Code: 3337) to groom nursing professionals in providing quality mental health care ranging from psychiatric clinical settings to community mental health services.
In preparing for the implementation of four-year curriculum in 2012, the Faculty of Engineering and the Department of Applied Social Sciences are also introducing greater flexibility for students through the launch of a broad-based degree programme in engineering and another broad-based degree programme in applied social sciences. 
The broad-based BEng programme (Jupas Code: 3313) will lead to four awards in electrical engineering, electronic and information engineering, industrial and systems engineering; and mechanical engineering respectively. Engineering students are free to choose any of the options within the first year of study, without quota restrictions.
Likewise, students of PolyU's BASocSc programme (Jupas Code: 3301) will be allowed to choose between the awards of social work or social policy and administration during their first year's first semester of study. They will be exposed to a broad knowledge base in social sciences as a foundation of future professional practices.
In addition, the Department of Computing (COMP) and Department of Management and Marketing will reinstate the Double Degree in Computing and Management. (Jupas Code: 3325). Hosted by COMP, the programme would enable information technology students to sharpen their business skills and apply computing skills in solving business and management problems.
Prospective applicants will be able to gain first-hand information about these and other programmes at the PolyU Education Info Day on 27 September (Saturday). For details, please click on www.polyu.edu.hk/as/infoday.
