
[date]2008.12.17[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Taught Postgraduate Programmes Info Day[/title]
The Hong KongPolytechnicUniversity (PolyU) is inviting applications for its 2009/10 taught postgraduate programmes from 18 December onwards. To give prospective applicants first-hand information on the programmes, some 60 seminars will be organized by faculties and academic departments on the Postgraduate Info Day to be held on 20 December (Saturday) from 2.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. on campus.
The Info Day will give prospective applicants in-depth details of the programmes at the on-campus information seminars organized by six Faculties namely Applied Science and Textiles, Business, Construction and Land Use, Humanities, Engineering, Health and Social Sciences, and the School of Design and School of Hotel and Tourism Management. 
In the 2009/10 academic year, around 70 taught postgraduate programmes will be on offer, including the following four new programmes which are launched in response to the rising demand for trained professionals in various disciplines.
路 Master of Educational and Child Psychology (mixed-mode)
路 MA in Social Policy and Social Development (mixed-mode)
路 MSc/PgD in Integrated Engineering (mixed-mode)
路 MSc/PgD in Sustainable Urban Development (mixed-mode)
The Master of Educational and Child Psychology Programme is a unique postgraduate programme subsidized by UGC. It aims at providing instruction and training in both the theories and practice of applied educational psychology, and will lead to a professional qualification for psychologists who wish to work in educational settings and organizations that are relevant to child-adolescent workforce development, including the pre-school, primary and secondary school sectors, tertiary institutions, non-governmental organizations with children/youth foci.
For more details of Info Day and application procedures, please visit the official website: www.polyu.edu.hk/study. As all applications received will be considered on a rolling basis, applicants are advised to submit their applications as early as possible.
For more information, please call Enquiry Hotline: 2333 0600.
