
[date]2008.08.14[/date]
[title]PolyU's "Avenue of Health" opens in Hong Kong International Medicine and Health Care Fair 2008[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been dedicated to promoting public awareness of health and enhancing the well-being of the community. To further spread health messages and better public members' understanding of its achievements in health-related research and innovations, FHSS has set up a prominent 'Avenue of Health' comprising specially decorated booths in the Hong Kong International Medical and Health Care Fair 2008. The Fair will be staged at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (HKCEC) from 14 to 18 August.
A Kick-off Ceremony jointly hosted by PolyU and the Hong Kong Institute of Education, another exhibitor of the Fair, for the booths of the two institutions was held yesterday (14 August). Guests of Honours were Ms Sandra Lee Suk-yee, Permanent Secretary for Food and Health (Health) of HKSAR Government; Mr Li Ling, Deputy Director, General of Education, Science and Technology Department, Liaison Office of The Central People's Government in the HKSAR; Mr Raymond Yip, Assistant Executive Director, Hong Kong Trade Development Council; and Prof. George Woo, Dean of PolyU FHSS. After the Ceremony, they were invited to tour around the 'Avenue of Health' to experience the advance medical and health care products developed by PolyU.
Apart from providing medical and healthcare information to visitors, the Avenue will showcase the latest development of FHSS. Inventions of its constituent schools and departments will be displayed at booths decorated as shops and streets reminiscent of old Hong Kong, while FHSS's student ambassadors will also dress in old-style clothes to tie in with the nostalgic theme. There are eight showrooms in the Avenue:
Sports Hall - sport health science will be introduced; equipment and sportswear designed for Hong Kong athletes for the 2008 Beijing Olympics will be displayed. 
Modern Po Chi Lam - the PolyU-developed PolyJbot Rehabilitation Robotic System, which facilitates exercise training for stroke patients and the elderly, will be demonstrated. 
Scholars Corner - the specially-developed Force Platform, which can quantify the balance and pressure of a loaded bag on a person and facilitate parents and teachers' selection of schoolbags of acceptable loads for children, will be introduced. 
CIC Game Zone - the importance of infection control will be promoted through interactive computer games. 
Mind Cafe - visitors will be able understand their cognitive functional status through the interactive mental tests and computer games. 
Gingko House - information about Alzheimer's disease and post-disaster care will be provided and free tests will be conducted for visitors. 
Herbal Tea Shop - free Chinese herbal tea and information about traditional Chinese medicinal therapy will be provided. 
Medical Database Centre - the PolyU-developed Picture Archive and Communication System, which enables medical professionals to assess and diagnose medical conditions based on images acquired through different imaging modalities, will be demonstrated.
Visitors will receive the specially designed postcards, which are published with the support of local comic writer Mr Aken Leung and Chun Tian Hua Hua Foundation, to help further spread the message of health care.
Besides, FHSS will host a public forum during the Fair. Dr Arran Leung, Clinic Manager of the PolyU Rehabilitation Clinic will speak on the topic 'Relax, Hong Kong People' at the Grand Foyer of the HKCEC on 17 August (Sunday) from 12:00nn to 12:30pm. 
