
[date]2008.12.12[/date]
[title]PolyU promotes intellectual capital management in the ASEAN region[/title]
More than 250 academics and officials from more than ten Asian countries gathered at Beijing to present and exchange their views on intellectual capital management at the 4th Symposium on China-ASEAN Entrepreneurs Exchanges on 8-9 December.
Organized by the China National Committee for Pacific Economic Cooperation (CNCPEC), the Symposium was supported by the Knowledge Management Research Centre of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Themed 'Cooperation for Promotion of Intellectual Capital Management', the two-day Symposium aimed to introduce the concept of intellectual capital (IC) management to the member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and China entrepreneurs and examine the management system in developed countries.
Mr Cheng Siwei, Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee, 10th National People's Congress of China and Honorary Chairman of CNCPEC was invited to deliver the keynote speech during the opening ceremony.  Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Academic Staffing and Resources) and Mr Stephen Selby, Director of Intellectual Property Department of the HKSAR Government were also among the distinguished guests to address at the opening ceremony.
Speaking at the Ceremony, Prof. Ko said, 'The theme of this year's Symposium is timely during the current global financial crisis as this gives us a good opportunity to re-examine the key sources of global economic growth. Instead of relying on boosting the financial assets only, developing countries should capitalize on knowledge revolution by building their human capital on education and skills.'
The Conference covered five major topics including creating and releasing economic values in knowledge economy; roles of the government in intellectual capital management; role of IC centres in promoting intellectual capital management; intellectual capital management in ASEAN and cooperation between China and ASEAN to promote IC management.
Prof. Leif Edvinsson, Chair Professor of Intellectual Capital Management and Prof. W.B. Lee, Director of Knowledge Management Research Centre of PolyU were among the speakers at the Symposium.  A number of prominent international scholars and experts were also invited as keynote and plenary speakers, including Prof. Ahmed Bounfour, European Chair of IC Management of the University of Paris-sud France; Prof. Ante Pulic, Economic Professor of the University of Zagreb, Croatia and Mr Ludo Pyis, President of Areopa Group, Belgium.
