
[date]2008.12.10[/date]
[title]Nobel Laureate speaks on China Economic Development at PolyU[/title]
At the invitation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Professor Douglass North, winner of Nobel Prize in Economics 1993, shared his view on China economic development today (10 December) with more than 200 participants at the 'Nobel Laureate Distinguished Lecture'. 
Hosted by PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Land Use, this lecture is entitled 'Economic Development in a New Framework: A Perspective for China'. The lecture focused on the change in China based on the framework of 'natural state' or 'limited access order' developed in the new book Violence and Social Order co-authored by Professor North, to be published by Cambridge University Press early next year.  
Professor North said, 'The dynamics for China involve changes in demography, in technology, in institutions, and in the interactions among these three. China both fits our model and has some unique characteristics. This affects our predictions concerning how China may evolve towards more competitive economic and political markets and whether it will continue to grow. The evolution of property rights will be an important factor in the dynamics of change in China.' 
In welcoming the Nobel Laureate, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'The financial tsunami sweeping across the continents has a far-reaching impact on the economic development of China. We are most delighted to have this timely opportunity to benefit from Professor North's insightful perspective and discussion.'
Professor North is Spencer T. Olin Professor in Arts and Sciences, a professor of history and a fellow of the Center for Political Economy at Washington University in St. Louis. He was on the faculty of the University of Washington (Seattle) and held visiting chairs at Cambridge University and Rice University. Since 2000, Professor North has been Bartlett Burnap Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University. He is also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and has served as President of the Economic History Association and President of the Western Economic Association. His research interest mainly falls on the evolution of economic and political institutions, with a major focus on the effect of institutions on the development of economies through time.  
The Nobel Laureate Distinguished Lecture was part of the full-day Conference on Property Rights and Economic Reform co-organised by PolyU and The Ronald Coase Institute, the renowned US research institute in New Institutional Economics. At the Conference, Prof. Ronald Coase, recipient of the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1991, also explained in a pre-recorded video the advantages of Chinese scholars in carrying research on New Institutional Economics.
Another highlight of the event is a conference call with the renowned local economist Prof. Steven Cheung Ng-sheong, who followed up the questions arising from his recent overview on China's economic transformation, the theme of a Chicago Conference funded by the Coase Foundation held in July at which Prof. Cheung presented a paper entitled 'The Economic System of China'.
 
