
[date]2008.11.13[/date]
[title]PolyU study affirms importance of English in the professional world[/title]
A recent survey entitled 'Language use in the professional world in Hong Kong' conducted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has shown that English continues to play a fundamentally important role in the business and professional worlds in Hong Kong, particularly in the contexts of financial services, trading and logistics, tourism, and professional services.
Jointly conducted by Associate Professor Dr Stephen Evans and Prof. Winnie Cheng of PolyU's Research Centre for Professional Communication in English (RCPCE) in the English Department, the survey is probably the largest of its kind after the territory's reunification with China in 1997.  The findings were derived from a questionnaire survey of 2,030 professionals, most of them being ethnic Chinese. The majority of the respondents were engaged in the four key industries that have driven Hong Kong's economic growth in recent years. 
In explaining the survey findings, Dr Stephen Evans said the evidence suggested that English has increased in importance in the eleven years since 1997. He said the survey findings clearly indicate that English continues to be the default medium of written communication in the workplace ' the text types that professionals read and write most frequently in English are email messages, reports, letters and memos.
As for spoken communication, English continues to play an important role in formal meetings, conferences, seminars and presentations. Although the importance of Putonghua has risen in the past decade, compared to English and Cantonese, the use of Putonghua in spoken business communication is infrequent. As might be expected, spoken English is perceived to be less important than Cantonese in informal meetings and discussions, telephone conversations and appraisal interviews.
Dr Evans added that the need for effective written and spoken communication skills in English becomes increasingly important as a professional rises through the ranks. This need was clearly recognized by the majority of the respondents, who occupied middle or senior management positions.
The respondents perceived 'written English' to be of utmost importance, and they gave an average rating of 5.08 to it on a six-point scale, followed by Cantonese (4.79), spoken English (4.69), written Chinese (4.09) and Putonghua (3.79). With regard to changes in language use, about 70 percent considered that Putonghua has been gaining in importance, while the overwhelming majority (over 90 per cent) considered that both written English and spoken English are as important as ever.
About 75 per cent of the survey respondents were holders of bachelor's degrees or above. Seventy per cent of the respondents were working at middle and senior management levels, while two-thirds of them had six years of working experience or more.
This PolyU survey is expected to provide valuable information for planners and policy makers in government, the leaders of Hong Kong's business and professional communities, and academics and administrators in the higher education sector.
The English Department's Research Centre for Professional Communication in English was established in 2006 with a mission to better serve the communication needs of professional communities and deepen our understanding of professional communication. 
