
[date]2008.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts symposium on China's economic development[/title]
More than 600 participants attended the 'China Economic and Business Symposium 2008 ' The Insights' hosted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (25 November). The one-day Symposium was jointly organised by the Institute of World Economics and Politics (IWEP) of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) and PolyU's Faculty of Business (FB) and Partnership Development Office.
In his welcoming address, PolyU Vice President (Academic Staffing and Resources) Prof. Ko Jan-ming said, 'China's rapid rise in global economic influence in the recent years has drawn the attention of the global business community. This Symposium provides timely opportunity for participants to gain access to the top-level information about the Central government's direction and policy, thus enabling them to make well-informed decisions in one of the world's fastest growing economy.'
Speaking at the Symposium were prominent figures who are instrumental in providing high level analysis and research to support the Chinese government's policy development and deployment. They included Prof. Yu Yongding, Director of IWEP, CASS, who spoke on the topic 'China's Macro-economic Situation and Policy'; Dr Tang Min, Deputy Secretary General, China Development Research Foundation of the Development Research Centre, on 'Opportunities in China under a new International Economic Order'; Dr Zuo Xiaolei, Chief Economist, China Galaxy Securities, on 'Enlightenment from Subprime Mortgage Crisis'; Dr Lu Tong, Director of Research Section of Multinational Corporations, IWEP, CASS, on 'Corporate Governance: Challenge and Strategy';  Mr Wang Wei, Chairman, China Mergers &amp; Acquisition Association, on 'The Predicaments and Chances of China M&amp;A'; and Dr Jia Kang, Director of the Institute for Fiscal Science Research, Ministry of Finance, on 'Taxation System, Policy &amp; Reform in China'.
The Symposium also included two sessions of panel discussion, in which some of Hong Kong's most influential and dynamic business leaders and professionals were brought together to share views with the speakers on the current crucial economic issues. The first session on the topic 'Macro-economic Development' was chaired by Mr Ronnie C. Chan, Chairman of Hang Lung Properties Ltd.; and Mr KC Kwok, former Government Economists for the HKSAR. The second session chaired by Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU's Associate Vice President, Dean of FB, Director of the Graduate School of Business and Chair Professor of Accounting; and Dr Eric Li Ka-Cheung, Senior Partner of Li, Tang, Chen &amp; Co., discussed the topic 'Business Environment and Financial Policy'. Among the eminent panelists were Dr Chan Man Hung Thomas,  Head of PolyU's China Business Centre; Mr Oscar V.T. Chow,  Executive Director of Chevalier Group; Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU's Vice President (Partnership Development); Mr Cliff Sun, Deputy Chairman, Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Mr James Wong Lung Wo, CEO, Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Ltd; and Dr Harry X. Wu, Associate Professor of PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance. Participants also took part in the discussion and gave views on discussed topics.
This Symposium did not only allow the audience to gain insights from 'the brains behind', but also provided a highly suitable platform for cross-pollination of views and opinions from business and industrial leaders in Hong Kong.
The Symposium has earned extensive support of the commercial sector. Supporting Organisations included Metro Finance, CPA Australia ' Hong Kong China Division, Federation of Hong Kong Industries, German Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, The Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, The Better Hong Kong Foundation, The British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, The Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, The Chamber of Hong Kong Listed Companies, The French Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, The Hong Kong Institute of Bankers, The Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries and The Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong.
  
