
[date]2008.10.09[/date]
[title]PolyU President welcomes 158 scholarship recipients[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has awarded scholarships this year to a total of 158 first year students from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas countries.
The awardees include 49 outstanding local students who achieved outstanding results in the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination or outstanding performance in non-academic areas by the international standards. The University has also provided full scholarships to 92 mainland students who achieved impressive results in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination. Among them, eight are from Sichuan quake-hit areas.
This year PolyU received 5,600 applications from mainland students. Among them, more than 80 per cent met the entrance requirements of state key universities. PolyU subsequently admitted 218 mainland students. They are attending a one-year foundation programme to prepare for first degree studies. In addition, PolyU has awarded full scholarships to 17 overseas students.
Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance per year ranging from $30,000 to $110,000, have been granted to the recipients.
The scholarship recipients were welcomed by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and other senior members at a tea reception held today (9 October) in their honour on the university campus.
Addressing the audience, Prof. Poon said: "The University is as good as its people, and our scholarship recipients are undoubtedly an important asset to our Institution. I hope the scholarships have given the recipients encouragement and support to embark on an exciting study journey at PolyU. " 
He added that PolyU would afford each student with an opportunity to take up internship or participate in an exchange programme during their university years. By taking part in these schemes, students would be able to develop a global perspective and set sights on the whole world. 
Committing to cultivating its international ties, PolyU has developed an extensive network with overseas institutions. Currently, more than 300 students from 84 institutions in 18 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the Philippines, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
