
[date]2008.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni building a greener Hong Kong[/title]
More than 1,000 enthusiastic alumni of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and their friends and family members planted more than 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Shing Mun Valley Park, Tsuen Wan today (30 November) with a wish to build a greener Hong Kong. 
'Greening Hong Kong by PolyU Alumni' was jointly organized by PolyU, the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD). This year, the event was kicked off by Mr Edward Yau Tang-wah, JP, Secretary for the Environment; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Prof. Kenneth Pang, FHKPUAA President; Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President; Prof. Angelina Yuen, PolyU Associate Vice President and Head of Department of Applied Social Sciences; Miss Gigi Leung, PolyU Greening Hong Kong Ambassador; Mr Johnny Fan, FHKPUAA Vice President; and Dr David Ng, FHKPUAA Honorary Treasurer. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the event, Prof. Poon said, 'This meaningful event not only helps building a greener living environment in Hong Kong, but also serves to educate our younger generation in environmental care and sustainable development. PolyU alumni have devoted themselves to serving the community as both professionals and citizens who always care for the common good.'
PolyU's green mission has been supported by the renowned artist Miss Gigi Leung who is also a design graduate of the University. Serving as the PolyU Greening Hong Kong Ambassador, Gigi has helped PolyU promote the idea of a greener city among the public. 
The event was also sprinkled with stall games and stage performances. Towards the end of the event, board members of the FHKPUAA and the organizing committee sang together and brought the fun-filled event to a satisfactory close. 
Each participant of the green mission was encouraged to donate at least HK$120. The net proceeds would be donated to The Community Chest of Hong Kong and to PolyU to support its alumni development.  
It was the fourth time that PolyU presented this greening activity. The debut of the event, launched in November 2004, won Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the 'Alumni Relations Programmes' category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first local institution bestowed with such honour.
