
[date]2008.12.09[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts the Fourth International Conference on Brand Management -  Corporate Strategy and Branding[/title]
About 600 professionals from business and academic sectors attended the Fourth International Conference on Brand Management jointly organised by the Asian Centre for Brand Management (ACBM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC) held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre today (9 Dec). The conference was staged as one of the key events of this year's Business of Design Week.
Themed 'Corporate Strategy and Branding', the conference covered issues at the forefront of corporate strategy and branding, including assessment of brand performance using marketing and financial metrics, justifying brand investment, cultivating strong brands with a matching culture, management of the brand experience and the creation of brand communities with social media.
Mr Duncan Pescod, Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development (Communications and Technology), Commerce and Economic Development Bureau of the HKSAR Government; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU, and senior management of the University officiated at the opening ceremony of the conference.
In the opening remarks, Mr Pescod emphasised the importance of branding in the global economy and appreciated this timely conference organised by PolyU.  He said, 'The conference will look at how to build a brand, how to manage a brand, how to measure the returns generated by a brand.  A strong brand drives shareholder value, and thus should be fiercely and proactively protected by the company.  The conference will help our businesses to better deploy branding to meet the challenges of today.'
Prof. Poon remarked, 'Branding is such a hot topic nowadays. Both in the goods as well as services sectors, old brands are revitalising and new brands are emerging. This conference provides an ideal opportunity for experienced industry practitioners, academics well versed in brand strategies and participants to exchange ideas and gain new insights into corporate branding.'  
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business said, 'Brands dedicated to high standards of corporate social responsibility can establish niche. As assets, brands can create both social and financial values for a company and the community.  I believe this annual conference has conveyed this message, among others, and continues to supply food for thought for all those keen on building creative and sustainable brands for their products or services.'
World-renowned academics and practitioners in the fields of creative branding and marketing gave inspiring keynote presentations and sharing at the conference. They included Prof. John A. Quelch from Harvard Business School, Prof. Steven M. Shugan from Warrington College of Business Administration of University of Florida, Mr Grahame Carder from Hyatt Hotels and Resorts, and Ms Betty Leong from MTR Corporation Limited. 
This year, in the newly added 'New Media Forum', Mr Roland van Kralingen of INNOA and Mr Johnny Tan of BBH Shanghai shared successful and innovative brand management experiences taking advantage of new media.  Dr Boby Chan of Moiselle International Holdings Limited, Mr Chris Chan of FANCL Hong Kong, Dr Ricky Szeto of Hung Fook Tong Holdings and Mr Douglas Young of G.O.D Limited discussed brand management issues in relation to living brands from perspectives of mid-sized growing companies in 'Dialogue with CEOs', another new interactive session, chaired by Ms Viveca Chan of WE Marketing Group. 
ACBM was established in 2005 by PolyU's Faculty of Business, specialising in conducting applied research on branding issues with practical value for improving business performance. As a regional centre for branding and retail studies, ACBM focuses on creating and improving brand value, and organising research projects on the management of brands as market-based assets.
HKDC is a non-profit making organisation established in 2001 by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations. It is dedicated to helping local designers and businesses to realise their full potential. Its mission is to use design and innovation to drive value creation and improve the well-being of society. Its vision is to establish Hong Kong as a centre of design excellence in Asia. 
For further information on the conference, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/fb/bc2008/.
 
