
[date]2008.11.05[/date]
[title]Community Weather Information Network celebrates first anniversary[/title]
The Hong Kong Observatory, the Department of Applied Physics of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and the Hong Kong Joint-school Meteorological Association today (November 5) celebrated the first anniversary of the "Hong Kong Community Weather Information Network" (HK Co-WIN) at the Observatory Headquarters. It also marked the official launch of the Community UV (Ultraviolet) Information Network on the Internet.
Speaking at the celebration ceremony, Director of the Hong Kong Observatory Mr Lam Chiu-ying said that through the HK Co-WIN, the Observatory hoped to work more closely with the community and advance weather education in Hong Kong through closer co-operation with universities, schools and organisations. 
"Since the launch of the UV Index recorded at the Observatory's King's Park Meteorological Station, we have found that the people had shown great interest in UV information," Mr Lam said. 
"The Community UV Information Network can meet the public demand by providing UV information at more places in Hong Kong," he said. 
Chair Professor and Head of Department of Applied Physics of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Professor Helen Chan welcomed the impressive growth of the HK Co-WIN. 
"Over the past year, the number of HK Co-WIN members has risen from 35 to 50, with more than 20 weather stations at various places in Hong Kong now reporting temperature, relative humidity and other weather information on the website," Professor Chan said. 
She looked forward to closer co-operation with the Observatory, and primary and secondary schools in Hong Kong. Capitalising on the experience of schoolteachers, she hoped to continue developing investigative studies on weather and environmental monitoring to meet the needs of current and future curricula.
Chairman of the Hong Kong Joint-school Meteorological Association Mr Liu Man-li said the association was collaborating with its members to implement the "Green Top Campaign" to raise awareness of students and the public on the effects of climate change. 
"We will continue to support the HK Co-WIN and jointly develop weather-related educational materials and promotional activities." 
Acting Chief Curriculum Development Officer of the Science Education Section, Education Bureau Ms Lui Mong-yu said, "We are pleased to see the development of the HK Co-WIN over the past year". 
"The Education Bureau looks forward to advances in the students' interests in science and their capability to conduct investigative studies by means of the network."
The HK Co-WIN is a collaborative effort by the Hong Kong Observatory, the Department of Applied Physics of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and the Hong Kong Joint-school Meteorological Association. The public can access the network's website at http://weather.ap.polyu.edu.hk/index.php . The website has also been linked to the Observatory homepage at http://www.weather.gov.hk/contente.htm .
 
