
[date]2008.12.22[/date]
[title]PolyU raises fund on the green[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Invitation Golf Tournament 2008 was successfully held earlier in Mission Hills Golf Club in Shenzhen. More than 130 participants gathered together for the fun-filled event which has raised about $0.9 million for the University.
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang thanked all parties involved for making the event possible. He said, 'We understand that raising funds in the present economic climate is not easy. To better prepare for the implementation of the four-year university curriculum, PolyU relies greatly on the support from our friends and partners in businesses and industries in realizing our vision for the well-being of the community and students' all-round development.'
The Tournament was organized by a Committee formed by a group of PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Eric Lee, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of CareLife HealthCare Limited. Other members of the Organizing Committee included Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited; and Mr Kenneth Ting Woo-shou, University Court member.
This year, more than 30 teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, PolyU alumni and friends took part in the Tournament. Among them were Mr Anthony Leung, Managing Director of Continental Conair Limited; Mr Lee Mun-hang, Chairman &amp; Executive Director of CareLife HealthCare Limited; Captain Lee Koon-wah and Mr Rocky Chan, Senior Harbour Pilots &amp; Executive Directors of Hong Kong Pilots Association Limited; Mr Paddy Chan of MV Sports International Limited.; Mr Patrick Yeung, Managing Director of Asia Capital (Corporate Finance) Limited; Mr Stephen Liu, Managing Director of Ernst &amp; Young Transactions Limited, to name just a few. A team sponsored by Mr Kenneth Ting Woo-shou won the Gross Champion of the Tournament.
Apart from promoting friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, another objective of the Tournament is to raise funds for the University. All proceeds will go to PolyU Development Fund and Student Development Fund to support the University's long-term development as well as the all-round development of PolyU students.
