
[date]2008.09.01[/date]
[title]PolyU launches Faculty of Humanities in new academic year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s new academic year kicked off with a series of welcoming ceremonies held on campus for its full-time students yesterday (1 September). 
The academic year 2008/2009 sees the establishment of the Department of Chinese Culture, which will offer general education subjects in the areas of Chinese history, civilisation, arts, music, religion and philosophy, facilitating students to better understand their own cultural heritage. This is in alignment with PolyU's strategic objective of providing an all-round education. Upon its establishment, the Faculty of Communication will be renamed as Faculty of Humanities to better reflect its academic profile. Furthermore, to reflect PolyU's role as a key provider of maritime education, the Department of Logistics will be renamed as Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies starting from this school year.
The new academic year also sees the admission of some 4,918 students funded by the University Grants Committee, including 2,923 Bachelor's degree and 1,995 higher diploma students. About 92 per cent of the undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as their Band A choices. In addition, there are 465 self-financed full-time students enrolled in the degree programmes.
There are also 218 Chinese mainland students, including 12 students from the quake-hit Sichuan province, joining our foundation programme this year. PolyU received over 5,600 applications from mainland students. Among them, 81 per cent have met the entrance requirements of state key universities. The majority of them came from Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang. 
At postgraduate level, PolyU received about 1,900 applications from non-local students this year, a significant surge from about 710 applications last year. The University has admitted some 310 non-local and 2,600 local students for its taught postgraduate programmes covering a diverse range of disciplines.   
In addition, the University has admitted 63 international students from 14 countries and territories, including Canada, Germany, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, and the US. They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different professional-oriented programmes offered by the University.
In recognition of their academic or non-academic achievements, PolyU has awarded scholarships to some 120 students. They include 48 local students who have achieved excellent results in the Advanced Level Examinations or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by international standards; 55 mainland students who excelled in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination, including 8 students from Sichuan; and 17 international students. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance, have been granted to these students basing on their academic or non-academic achievements. 
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 59 students are admitted to the University via the Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme, 50 through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations Scheme, and 1,329 through the Self Recommendation Scheme.
Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU's Student Exchange Programme offers students opportunities to study and experience a different culture at about 220 renowned universities across more than 26 countries. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 550 international students and send forth an equivalent number of its students abroad for exchange this year. 
Currently, more than 300 students from 84 institutions in 18 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the Philippines, UK and US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
