
[date]2009.01.13[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion expert presents innovative design in Knitwear Symphony 2009[/title]
Dr Judyanna Ng, well-known Hong Kong fashion designer and Senior Lecturer of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) displayed her innovative design in the first ever knitwear fashion show in Hong Kong 'Knitwear Symphony 2009' staged today (13 January) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
Organised by the Knitwear Innovation and Design Society, the event aimed to showcase Hong Kong designers' talents and capabilities and to reinforce the city's position as the world's leading knitwear sourcing centre. It featured latest knitwear collections of Dr Judyanna Ng and seven other renowned local designers.
Based on the concept of localisation in a globalised world, Dr Ng's collection applied traditional Chinese cultural distinctiveness to the development of contemporary fashion design for the global market. Featuring an identity movement for localised and specific cultural identities, the collection, with the use of Chinese motifs, is a fusion of advanced technology in knitting and embroidery with traditional craftsmanship.
Dr Ng's research and design interest is in the relationship between fashion and social and cultural context, fashion and knitwear design, as well as embroidery and accessories design. She obtained her Master degree in fashion from Domus Academy in Milan and Ph.D from PolyU in 2004. Among the consultancy projects undertaken by Dr Ng was the uniform design for the Immigration Department of the HKSAR. In 2006, Dr Ng participated in the International Trade Fair for Sports Equipment and Fashion which is the world's largest of its kind. Besides, her collection of fashion accessories and jewellery was also exhibited in the Hong Kong Design Centre and the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre during the Business of Design Week 2007. Dr Ng is currently Co-ordinator for the new specialism in Knitwear Design with Technology under PolyU's bachelor degree programme in fashion and textiles.
More than 800 local and overseas fashion experts and representatives from the industry were drawn to the event. Among the renowned designers participating in the show were Mr Walter Ma and Ms Lu Lu Cheung.
