
[date]2008.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU, Cisco, Macroview Telecom launch the Advanced Enterprise Infrastructure Lab[/title]
Hong Kong, 25 November 2008 ' The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today announced the opening of the Advanced Enterprise Infrastructure Lab in the Department of Computing, sponsored by Cisco, the world leader in networking, and Cisco® Gold Certified partner, Macroview Telecom, a professional provider of Internetworking solutions. The Lab will allow students, teaching staff and University researchers to use advanced networking technologies to develop innovative enterprise, e-commerce, unified communications and wireless applications that will help enhance the competitiveness of various businesses in Hong Kong. The president of the University, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, commended the launch as a prime example of successful collaboration between the University and the private sector, one that will bring significant long-term benefits to students, teaching staff and researchers.   
'The Advanced Enterprise Infrastructure Lab highlights the University's commitment to providing world-class facilities for education and research purposes,' Prof. Poon said. 'The University firmly believes that strategic emphasis on applied research will enhance academic and practical learning, in turn equipping students not only with professional competency but also practical experience in developing applications for use in the real business world.'
The Lab, which represents a major corporate social responsibility project for Cisco in Hong Kong, also symbolizes one of the most significant collaborative efforts that Cisco has engaged in with the education sector in Asia Pacific. Cisco President for China, Mr. Thomas Lam said, 'Cisco is dedicated to developing IT talent, something we have done in tandem with leading universities across the region for many years.  The Internet is now a major part of business and lifestyle, in particular for the younger generations. We are glad that the Lab can be a part of their professional growth as they learn more about the latest Internet technologies and develop practical applications for businesses.'
Being the first and the only Cisco partner in Hong Kong and Macau with the Cisco Master specialization in Unified Communications, Macroview Telecom will not only inject its technological knowhow to facilitate the Lab's set up and operation, but also bring commercial exposure and mentorship to the students. During the opening, Founder and Chief Technology Officer of Macroview Telecom, Mr. P.H. Tang, said, "The Lab is part of Macroview's ongoing efforts to help nurture future IT talent and leadership for Hong Kong. The state-of-the-art facilities of the Lab will greatly facilitate students as they conduct research in applications and programming development, and put theory into practice." 
Made possible through generous sponsorships of equipment, software and services worth over HK$7 million from Cisco and Macroview, the Lab will provide students with a unique and challenging opportunity to learn and apply networking technologies, including unified communications and IP-based contact centres, and to develop innovative applications. It also contains LAN infrastructure equipment, wireless LAN infrastructure equipment, network security equipment and a digital signage system.
The Lab is already embarking on several initial projects that focus on developing practical applications for various businesses through the use of advanced networking and information technologies. One of them is "The Intelligent Airport (TINA)", a project led by Prof. Ian White, Head of the School of Technology of the University of Cambridge.  Working closely with Prof. White, the Lab is developing applications for next-generation intelligent airports. 
Another project is being undertaken jointly with DHL Global Forwarding and is designed to develop innovative applications for the logistics industry.  As the consultant for the Lab, Kelvin Leung, Chief Executive Officer, North Asia Pacific, DHL Global Forwarding, provides support to the university's staff and students by sharing his knowledge and experience in the logistics industry and working closely with them to boost the research capability of the local air cargo industry as part of the company's commitment to Hong Kong.
###
About PolyUThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is a university with a proud and illustrious history. Formerly known as the Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Institution assumed full university status in 1994. The University prides itself on its quality application-oriented academic programmes and research and close ties with business and industry. It is the largest publicly-funded tertiary institution in Hong Kong in terms of number of students, with 26,000 full-time and part-time students, and a vast pool of close to 250,000 graduates. PolyU website: www.polyu.edu.hk
About Macroview Telecom Macroview is a professional provider of Internetworking solutions since early 1990s. In addition to designing and implementing IP-based and UC solutions, we also integrate People, Process and Technology into innovative business solutions and productivity tools via our unique LUCAS (Leading Unified Communications Application Services) platform. Information about Macroview can be found at http://www.macroview.com.
About Cisco SystemsCisco, (NASDAQ: CSCO), is the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate.  Information about Cisco can be found at http://www.cisco.com. For ongoing news, please go to http://newsroom.cisco.com. Cisco equipment in Hong Kong and Macau is supplied by Cisco Systems International BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cisco Systems, Inc.
# # #
Cisco, Cisco Systems, and the Cisco Systems logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and certain other countries. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. This document is Cisco Public Information.
 
