
[date]2008.10.21[/date]
[title]PolyU's Design scholar honoured with IDSA Education Award[/title]
Prof. Lorraine Justice, Swire Chair Professor of Design and Director of School of Design (SD) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been bestowed with the Education Award by the Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA).
The IDSA Education Award is presented annually to an individual in recognition of his significant and distinguished contributions to the field of industrial design education. The Award signifies that the recipient has maintained unwavering commitment to the values and principles of the industrial design profession and thus has earned the respect and admiration of colleagues and students for her teaching in the field. It is regarded as one of the highest honours an educator can receive from her peers.
The panel of judges of the Award hailed Prof. Lorraine Justice as 'a leader with vision and humanity'.  A panel representative said, 'As an educator, Lorraine has impacted the profession of Industrial Design on many different levels. From taking interest in an individual's growth to advocating government level support for design worldwide, she is passionate about the level at which design can change the world.'
'I feel extremely honoured and very happy to be given the Award,' Prof. Justice said. 'I do believe good design can make people's lives better in many aspects, whether it is a product, environment, service or digital communication. Students have a chance to change their world through a good design education.'
Prof. Justice worked in industry in the US as a designer for 13 years before joining the teaching profession. She joined PolyU in 2004, and soon brought SD to international prominence. Under her leadership, SD was twice rated as one of the top 10 design schools in Asia and the best four in China according to a BusinessWeek special report published in 2006 and 2007. She was also named one of the Top 40 Designers in the world by ID Magazine.
As the voice of the profession, IDSA advances the quality and positive impact of design on business and society. It aims at inspiring design quality and responsibility through professional development and education, evaluating the business of design and improving the value of the design industry.
