
[date]2008.08.15[/date]
[title]Eminent experts to speak at functional sportswear and sports shoes workshop[/title]
Leading academics and industry professionals attended the Technical Workshop: Functional Sportswear and Sports Shoes held at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 15 August (Friday). The Workshop provided a unique platform for participants to exchange the latest research development and new technologies in the design and production of functional sportswear, apparels and sports shoes.
The Technical Workshop is a major highlight of the 3-day Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Therapy ' Textile Bioengineering and Informatics (SMART ' TBIS) Joint Symposium staged from 14 to 16 August. It was held concurrently with the Symposium's parallel discussion sessions on the second day, featuring presentations by eminent researchers, sports medicine and rehabilitation experts under three sub-themes: 'Testing Methods and Standards of Moisture Management Textiles', 'Cotton for Sports' and 'Functional Design of Sports Shoes', which were respectively sponsored by SDL-ATLAS, Cotton Incorporated (USA) and The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre.
Apart from the presentations by speakers from the China Textiles Industry Association and the Hong Kong Sports Institute, respectively on the 'Review of China National Standards (GB) Test Standards' and 'Heat Stresses in Training and Competition of Elite Athletes', PolyU experts also shared their research findings. Highlights were the talks on 'Moisture Buffering of Cotton Sportswear' and 'Temperature Regulation in Footwear Design' by Prof. Li Yi, Professor of PolyU Institute of Textiles and Clothing and Chairman of Organizing Committee for the Joint Symposium; and the talks on moisture management, dermatological effects of cotton fabrics, footwear design to reduce ankle sprain and related technologies presented by other researchers.
Prof. Li remarked, 'This Joint Symposium and the Technical Workshop helped promote multi-disciplinary research on creative design innovations for sports, health, eco and the concept of sustainable lifestyle, which greatly benefited related industries and the sport community at large.'
The SMART-TBIS Joint Symposium is co-organized by a number of professional bodies and institutions including the Textile Bioengineering and Informatics Society, Asian Federation of Sports Medicine, PolyU, the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Zhongshan University. World-class researchers in the fields of nanotechnology, material science and engineering, fashion and functional design, human sports physiology; and professionals in sportswear industries, sports medicine and rehabilitation from the Chinese Mainland, Japan, Sweden, the UK, the US, Canada, France and Hong Kong will share their knowledge and insightful views in related fields. For details of the Symposium, please refer to its official website: http://www.tbisociety.org.
Other relevant activities include:
Textile Bioengineering and Informatics Symposium 2008 (14-15 August 2008 at PolyU) 
High Performance Sportswear Design Exhibition (open to public; 14-26 August 2008 at MN109, Fashion Resources Centre, Institute of Textiles and Clothing, PolyU) 
SMART Convention 2008 (16 August 2008 at CUHK)
 
