
[date]2008.10.27[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces Global MAKE Award to HK[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has helped put local enterprises on the list of the world's most successful organizations in knowledge management (KM) through organizing the Hong Kong round of the Global MAKE (Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises) Award. 
Organized for the first time by the University's Knowledge Management Research  Centre (KMRC), the event has come to a fruitful close and the winning company organizations (in alphabetical order), namely CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd ' Marketing &amp; Customer Services and Power Systems Business Group; ERM ' Hong Kong Limited; Ernst &amp; Young; Integrated Call Centre, Efficiency Unit, HKSAR Government; Langham Place Hotel Hong Kong; and Orient Overseas Container Line Ltd has automatically entered the final round of Asian MAKE Award 2008.  It is proud to learn that Langham Place Hotel Hong Kong also becomes one of the Asian MAKE Award winner. 
The Global MAKE Award is an international benchmark of best practice knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management. It seeks to provide public recognition for the organizations which effectively transform enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products or services. 
'In addition to arousing the public's recognition to local organizations which have achieved outstanding performance in knowledge management practices, KMRC has brought this world-renowned award to Hong Kong to raise the level of management's commitment and engagement in the implementation of KM in organizations and companies in Hong Kong,' said Prof. Lee Wing-bun, Director of KMRC.
The Award has been presented at the global, regional and national levels. The winners of the Global MAKE Award are selected by an expert panel comprising executives from Fortune 500 companies and leading knowledge management practitioners.  
The Award Presentation Ceremony will be held at the InterContinental Grand Stanford tomorrow (28 October). Officiating at the Ceremony are Ir Dr Hon. Samson Tam Wai-ho, Member of Legislative Council; Mr Jeremy Godfrey, Government Chief Information Officer; Mr Stephen Selby, Director of the Intellectual Property Department; Mr Charles Wong, Director (Training), Construction Industry Council; and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development). 
The winners have gone through two rounds of evaluation conducted by a panel of respected senior business executives and leading knowledge management experts. In the first round, the panel assessed the KM competence level of the organization based on the same criteria adopted by the Global MAKE Award. In the final round, short-listed organizations were invited to conduct a case presentation to the panel.
PolyU is a pioneer in advocating KM in Hong Kong. In addition to launching the territory's first Master of Science in KM to nurture talents for the field, PolyU also provides consultancy and training services to the government and the local business community. It is also taking the lead in conducting research relating in KM and knowledge systems engineering, and building international collaboration in the field.
