
[date]2008.09.16[/date]
[title]PolyU names building after caring nonagenarian alumnus[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently dedicated a building on campus to Mr Ng Wing-hong, one of the first graduates of the Institution's forerunner, the Government Trade School, in the 1930s. Graduated in 1939, Mr Ng has been giving unwavering support to his alma mater over the past 70 years.
Mr Ng yesterday (16 September) officiated at the Naming Ceremony in the company of Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council Dr Ng Tat-lun and President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong. 
In expressing his gratitude for Mr Ng's staunch support for the Institution, Dr Ng said, 'Mr Ng has deep affection for his alma mater. He firmly believes that he owes his success to the nurturing and support of his teachers. With a strong sense of belonging to PolyU, Mr Ng has actively participated in many events of the University to show his whole-hearted support.'
'In recognition of Mr Ng's enthusiasm and his generous contribution to the University, the PolyU Council has decided to name the ST wing of the campus Ng Wing Hong Building,' said Mr Ng.
PolyU President Prof. Poon said, 'This naming ceremony is of special significance to the University. For seven decades, Mr Ng has continuously shown his care for his alma mater with passion. His exemplary commitment has touched our hearts and is manifested by this memorable ceremony today.'
'To live up to the expectations of our alumni and the community at large, PolyU will continue to strive to nurture talents, providing quality programmes and professional services for the well-being of Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland,' added Prof. Poon.
Mr Ng was born in an era of turbulence. At the age of 15, he quitted schooling to learn the trade of construction from his father. Being fully aware of the need for further education, he became a student of the Department of Building of the then Government Trade School in 1937. Upon graduation, Mr Ng set up his own construction company in 1940. During the difficult periods of Japanese occupation of Hong Kong and the 1973 oil crisis, he was referred to jobs by his alma mater. Mr Ng has stayed in the business of the construction industry for more than 50 years. 
In 1938, Mr Ng was invited to teach Building courses at the Institution's evening school. In 1953, he was elected President of the first alumni association of the then Hong Kong Technical College after the Wars. Over the years, he has actively participated in many alumni activities. In 2002, PolyU named a big tree in front of its Library after Mr Ng in appreciation of his personal accomplishments and generous contribution to his alma mater. In 2005, PolyU conferred on him the title of University Fellowship. Mr Ng's affection for PolyU is shared by his son, Dr Ng Tze-chuen, a dentist-scientist who has been working with PolyU researchers in developing space tools since 1995.
Mr Ng showed genuine concern for and actively participated in community and industry affairs. He was a Vice-Chairman of the Po Leung Kuk in 1950, and was elected President of the Hong Kong Construction Association in 1963. He is now the Honorary Life Director of the PolyU Development Fund.
The kind-hearted senior always wears a gentle smile. In doing business, he considers goodwill the utmost important virtue. He is keen on learning new things, and has never spoken of retirement. To the younger generations, he always urges them to continuously improve themselves. Mr Ng is not only an exemplary PolyU alumnus, but also a role model of the young people.
 
