
[date]2008.09.29[/date]
[title]PolyU Associate Vice President takes the helm of IASSW[/title]
At its General Assembly held recently in Durban, the International Association of Schools of Social Work (IASSW) has elected Prof. Angelina Yuen Tsang Woon-ki, Associate Vice President and Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) as its new President for a term of four years. She is also the first Asian scholar to take the helm of this international body.
Delighted with this honour, Prof. Yuen said: 'The election is a strong recognition of Hong Kong's professional social work in the international social welfare sector and it helps enhance the impact of social work education of both Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland in the international arena. This is also an excellent opportunity to further develop and promote social work education to the world.'
Founded in 1928, IASSW is the worldwide association of schools of social work, other tertiary level social work educational programmes, and social work educators, with member schools in over 80 countries. It promotes the development of social work education throughout the world, develops standards to enhance quality of social work education, encourages international exchange, provides forums for sharing social work publication and research, and promotes social development through policy and advocacy activities.
In announcing this important appointment on its website, IASSW described Prof. Yuen as 'having global concern' and 'fervently advocated for partnership projects to facilitate developing countries to launch social work education programmes'. 
Prof. Yuen has been practising and teaching social work in Hong Kong, Singapore and the Chinese mainland since the 1970s. She had taught at the National University of Singapore and the Hong Kong Shue Yan College and worked as a social worker with women, industrial workers and marginal youth groups before she joined PolyU in 1986.
In the international arena, Prof. Yuen is a key player in social work education. She became a Board Member of Asia and Pacific Association of Social Work Education in 1985. She is also actively engaged in various other international organizations including the International Federation of Social Workers;  the International Council on Social Welfare, YWCA, World Vision and is a Board Member of the International Consortium for Social Development and Co-Chair of its 2007 International Symposium.
Since 1988, Prof. Yuen has helped to spearhead social work education in China, and has played a leading role in the establishment of the China Association for Social Work Education and the development of its strategic plans. She was also instrumental in launching the first Master of Social Work programme on the Chinese mainland and in the establishment of PolyU-PekingU China Social Work Research Centre. Currently she is leading PolyU 's Taskforce on Sichuan Post-Disaster Reconstruction in collaboration with Sichuan University.
In Hong Kong, she was President of the Hong Kong Social Workers Association and is serving as Board Member of numerous Government commissions and NGOs. She was appointed as a Justice of Peace in 2002 and further awarded a Bronze Bauhinia Star by the SAR Government this year in recognition of her meritorious public and community service, particularly her contribution to the development of social work education.
Prof. Yuen's research interests and areas of specialism are mainly in the field of social support networks and community care, social work education, social work practice in China, corporate social responsibility and occupational social work. In recent years, her research focus has been in the area of the indigenization of social work education and practice in the Chinese Mainland. 
 
