
[date]2009.03.03[/date]
[title]PolyU Graduate School of Business Soars in World Ranking[/title]
The Graduate School of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been ranked among Asia's Top 3 and world's Top 70 business schools based on research contributions in the world's top 24 business research journals, putting the School prominently on the world map.
The School, under Faculty of Business, has seized 66th position in the latest 2004-2008 independent ranking exercise conducted by The University of Texas at Dallas (UTD), a significant jump of 12 places from the last UTD ranking for the period 2003-2007. The latest ranking has catapulted the School to Asia's Top 3 position, from the previous Top 5 spot.
The League Table on the world's top business schools is compiled by UTD researchers who have objectively measured research contributions of business schools worldwide based on their publications in leading business journals.
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business, was delighted with this recognition. 'We are pleased that our Faculty's dedicated efforts in providing business education and research at the highest international standard over the years have borne fruit.
'This significant recognition not only testifies to our strength in achieving world-class excellence in teaching and research, but also gives us a strong impetus to aspire to become one of the world's top business schools,' Prof. Tsui added.
Recently, a journal paper published in the Journal of Management in August 2008 ranked PolyU's Faculty of Business among the 100 most cited universities in the field of management for the period of 2000-2004.
In 2007, the Faculty achieved accreditation status of European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) awarded by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD).
In addition, its Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programmes are accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA) in the United Kingdom. The first DBA programme in Hong Kong, PolyU DBA is among the first DBAs in the world to be accredited by AMBA.
True to its core value of 'Qualified for the Real World', the Faculty's strength and uniqueness lie in its ability to integrate cutting edge theories with rapidly changing business practices. The Faculty is committed to providing high quality, relevant business education in particular integrating ethics and corporate social responsibility in its Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) and MBA programmes.
For more information on UTD's ranking exercise, please visit http://somweb.utdallas.edu/top100Ranking/searchRanking.php?t=w, and for further information on PolyU Graduate School of Business, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb.
