
[date]2009.02.04[/date]
[title]PolyU Appoints World-Class Scholar in Risk and Decision Analysis[/title]
The Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently appointed Professor Alain Bensoussan as Chair Professor of Risk and Decision Analysis under PolyU's World-Class Scholar Scheme. Prof. Bensoussan is Distinguished Research Professor and Director of the International Centre for Decision and Risk Analysis (ICDRiA) at the School of Management at the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD). He has been Professor at the University of Paris-Dauphine since 1969 and Emeritus since 2004.  
As Chair Professor of Risk and Decision Analysis, Prof. Bensoussan will help set up the PolyU branch of ICDRiA and undertake research with FB academic staff.  The first two areas of study will be risk and decision analysis, and risk and uncertainties in management.
Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, remarked, 'It is the University's new strategic initiative to recruit additional world-class scholars over the next few years to boost our research and teaching efforts.  It is our pleasure to have Prof. Bensoussan joined the Faculty and look forward to sharing his profound knowledge in Risk and Decision Analysis which may possibly impact Hong Kong and the global economy in future.'
'The financial tsunami points to a lack of basic corporate governance; it reveals that proper risk management and good corporate governance is likely to avoid future financial crisis.' said Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business, Director of Graduate School of Business and Chair Professor of Accounting.  She pointed out that there is a need for close cooperation among financial institutions, insurance companies and academics to understand the dynamics of the current financial crisis using sophisticated scientific methods.
Prof. Bensoussan is an internationally acclaimed scholar in the field of stochastic control, inventory management and risk and decision analysis.  In particular, he introduced impulse control in the context of inventory management.  The concepts and methods developed in this context have since been widely used in many domains of management science and operations research.  Before joining PolyU he was already involved in the mutual insurance activities of the Faculty of Business, using impulse control methodology.  
During his career in Europe, Professor Bensoussan had many important responsibilities in research establishments.  In particular, he has been:- Chairman of the European Space Agency (ESA) Council from July 1999 to July 2002- President of the Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales (CNES) from January 1996 to  February 2003 - President of the Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique  (INRIA) from 1984 to1996
He is a member of several Academies - Member of the French Academy of Sciences (since 2003) - Member of the Academy of Technologies (since 2000) - Member of the Academia Europae ( since 1985)- Member of the International Academy of Astronautics (since 1999) 
His many awards and distinctions include:- Ordre National du Merite (Commandeur) - 2000- Legion d'Honneur ' (Officier) '2003- Bundes Verdienst Kreuz ' (Officier) '  2003- Von Humboldt Prize ' 1984 - Fellow IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) ' 1985- NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, October 2001- Special Award AAAF (French Aerospace Association),  June 2002 
The World-Class Scholar Scheme is part of the University's strategic plan to further enhance the University's academic and research strength by inviting leading scholars worldwide to join the Faculties.
