
[date]2009.02.13[/date]
[title]PolyU stages “Youreable” Fashion Design 2009[/title]
The Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is currently staging the 'Youreable' Fashion Design  2009. Co-organized by the Hong Kong Federation of Handicapped Youth, Caritas Hong Kong Services for the Elderly, The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council and St James' Settlement, the event will provide a platform for disabled persons to unleash their talents in fashion design and apparel making.
The opening ceremony of the event was held today (13 Feb) and was officiated at by Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Prof. Wong Kwok-yin, Dean of PolyU Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles; Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Head of PolyU Institute of Textiles and Clothing; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, 'Like normal people, those persons with disabilities have innate talents too. We organize this event to provide the disabled with an opportunity to release their creative inspiration in fashion design through teaming up with others in the community to tailor-make clothes for their loved ones.' 
Another objective of this event is to promote a harmonized and caring community. With their professional knowledge and skills, teachers and students of ITC will provide technical support to the participants in designing and producing garments and put their concern for disabled people into action. 
The event will consist of awards in Best Design, Best Effort, Best Team, Best Interpretation, Best Potential and Most Creative Design. In addition, 24 shortlisted designs will be presented in a catwalk show in which the design targets of the participants will showcase the outfits in person. The event is open for enrolment until 21 February 2009. Enquiry telephone: 3400 3369 
Established in 2007, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia which promotes the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the disabled and the elderly. The Centre is the joint efforts of experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals. 
