
[date]2009.04.07[/date]
[title]PolyU Outstanding Alumni speak at “Hours of Power” sharing seminar[/title]
Four distinguished alumni came home today (7 April) to speak at a sharing seminar 'Hours of Power', which is one of the important events held from 6 to 9 April in celebration of the official installation of Professor Timothy W. Tong as the new President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). 
The speakers, who are recipients of the 'Outstanding PolyU Alumni Awards', included Ir Professor Ng Sai-ho, Consultant, DLS Management Ltd; Ir Otto Poon Lok-to, Founder and Managing Director of Analogue Group of Companies; Mrs Yvonne Law Shing Mo-han, National Chief Knowledge Officer and Partner of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu; Mr Freeman Lau, Partner of Kan &amp; Lau Design Consultants.
Addressing the seminar, Prof. Tong said, 'Over the years, our University has nurtured more than 270,000 graduates and we are grateful to have received staunch support from them. Today we are honoured to have four of our outstanding alumni to share their invaluable experience with our students and staff members. They have not only made exceptional accomplishments in their respective professions, but have also contributed significantly to the community at large. These distinguished alumni are certainly the role models of young people in Hong Kong and I am confident that our students will benefit immensely from their sharing.'
At the seminar themed 'Scaling new heights in 2009', the speakers shared with more than 700 students, alumni and staff members their keys to success and how they faced the challenges brought about by the current economic downturn. The speakers also shared with students tips on job-hunting, and information of the development prospects in the fields of design, accounting, building and engineering. 
Biodata of the speakers
Ir Prof. Ng Sai-ho - Diploma in Building/ 1962- Recipient of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award 1997
Ir Prof. Ng has made significant contributions to promoting the status of engineers in the construction industry in Hong Kong.  He has been the Representative of the Institution of Structural Engineers (IStructE) in Hong Kong for over 30 years.  He received the Lewis Kent Award from the IStructE for his distinguished service to the structural engineering profession in Hong Kong and the UK.  An ardent supporter of PolyU, Prof. Ng was Chairman of the PolyU Building Association and Chairman of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering (CSE) Advisory Committee.  In 2002, PolyU conferred on him the University Fellowship. Currently, he is Member of the PolyU Court, Adjunct Professor of CSE and a practicing Forensic Engineer.  
Ir Otto Poon Lok-to- Higher Certificate in Electrical Engineering/ 1962,   Higher Certificate in Mechanical Engineering / 1964- Recipient of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award 1999
With more than 40 years of experience in electrical and mechanical engineering, Ir Poon is generous in offering his expertise to serve the profession.  He has contributed significantly towards the accreditation of engineering degrees, from which PolyU and other local tertiary institutions have benefited immensely. Ir Poon also actively participated in community and public service.  He was the Chairman of Energy Advisory Committee and the Strategy Sub-Committee of Council for Sustainable Development.  He also served as member of the Advisory Council on Environment and Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal Panel. He was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government in 2003 and conferred the University Fellowship by PolyU in 2007. 
Mrs Yvonne Law Shing Mo-han - Higher Diploma in Accountancy/ 1977 - Recipient of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award 2007
Mrs Law is Vice President of the Association of Women Accountants Hong Kong and serves on the Board of Hospital Authority and the ICAC Citizens Advisory Committee on Community Relations.  She was recognized as Top Tax Advisor in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland during 2001-2006 by International Tax Review, and named as one of the leading individuals in Hong Kong in World Tax 2007 and World Tax 2008.  In 2006, she was named one of China's National Hundred Outstanding Women Entrepreneurs. She has also contributed to the development of PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance by serving on its Advisory Committee.
Mr Freeman Lau Siu-hong - Diploma in Design/ 1979- Recepient of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award 2001
Mr Lau is Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Hong Kong Design Centre.  He has nearly 30 years of experience in communication design. Since 1984, he has won over 300 awards in local and overseas art and design contests.  He is well-known for his creative bottle design for Watson's Water, which has won the international 'Bottlewaterworld Design Awards'.  Mr Lau has devoted a lot of effort towards enhancing the identity of Hong Kong design overseas and promoting design education. He is currently a member of the Design Management Institute Advisory Council in the USA.
