
[date]2009.02.11[/date]
[title]PolyU stages its 4th Arts Festival[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is staging its 4th Arts Festival from February to April this year. Evolving around the theme of 'Visual Arts', a series of expedition programmes have been lined up on campus to further broaden students' artistic and cultural vision, contributing to their personal development and as an important component of all-round education.
Organized by the Culture Promotion Committee, the Festival was kicked off today (10 Feb) at a ceremony officiated at by Mr Tsang Tak-shing, Secretary for Home Affairs, HKSAR; Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; and Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Chairman, PolyU Culture Promotion Committee.  Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, 'While we always pride ourselves on the University's emphasis on professional and application-oriented education, we have never lost sight of the importance of arts education. As we know perfectly well that it is an integral component of a student's all-round development. It is our belief that through the appreciation and practice of arts, creativity of our students could be unleashed and knowledge could be acquired.'  To kick start this year's Arts Festival, a 'Mural Painting Project' involving the collaborative efforts of PolyU students and staff using mosaic, jumping clay, collage and felt art, has been organized. Created by the renowned artist Mr Marco Szeto Chi-ming, this painting standing on the PolyU campus is titled 'Our Dream Wall'. To tie in with this large visual art project, a number of workshops have been lined up for PolyU students and staff to create their own artwork which will then be displayed on the mural painting.   The Festival will feature a series of programmes and exhibitions including: masterpieces of mural painting, contemporary Lingnan painting, outdoor sculptures, award-winning films and documentaries, as well as experimental workshops on origami, colour drawing, mosaic art, glass-blowing and night photography. In particular, the films and documentaries to be shown are contributed by the supporting Consulates General of Austria, Canada, France, India, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand and South Africa.           
Highlights of the Festival:
Exhibition of Ink Works by Mr Lai Ming, Maestro of Contemporary Lingnan Painting(19 Feb ' 1 Mar 09, 9 am ' 7 pm daily at Entrance Foyer, Jockey Club Auditorium, PolyU)More than 50 works by Mr Lai Ming will be on display to showcase his versatility in ink works on birds, flowers and landscapes. 
My Perpetual Vision ' Norman W M Ko Open Air Exhibition(13-29 Mar 09, 9 am ' 7 pm daily at Amphitheatre and Entrance Foyer, Jockey Club Auditorium, PolyU)Renowned local sculptor Prof. Norman Ko Wah-man's first-ever one-man outdoor sculpture exhibition in Hong Kong, showing more than 50 spectacular works on campus.
Workshop series on visual arts including Chinese Painting, Origami, Colour Drawing, Mosaic Art, Glass-blowing and Photography(throughout Feb ' Apr 09 on PolyU campus)A series of workshops for PolyU students and staff which help inspire greater appreciation of arts and culture.  
'An Eye Opener' Film and Video Programme(throughout Feb ' Apr 09 at Chiang Chen Studio Theatre, PolyU)Award-winning films and documentaries as well as films on successful visual artists and visual arts cultures from around the world will be featured.
For details of the Festival programmes, please visit http://www.cpc.polyu.edu.hk/eng/program_f.htmPress members are welcome to cover the events.
        
 
