
[date]2009.07.28[/date]
[title]PolyU organises Elderly Mini-U Programme 2009 to promote lifelong learning[/title]
To encourage senior citizens to make good use of their leisure time and to promote the concept of lifelong learning, the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) organised the Elderly Mini-U Programme 2009 from 15 to 26 June. 
This year, 55 elderly students enrolled for the Programme's elementary course while another nine opted for the credit-bearing course, administered by PolyU's School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED). A total of 15 FHSS students were selected as student ambassadors who not only helped in the running of the Programme, but also assisted the elderly students on campus.
As the coordinator of the Programme, FHSS has specially designed a series of interesting and practical classes for the elderly students. The classes cover a wide range of topics from eye care, Hong Kong history and culture, dining etiquette, travelling tips to financial management, Putonghua, computer studies, knowledge of Chinese medicine, prevention of communicable diseases, home safety tips, fitness training, image design, and understanding of social enterprises. The elderly students attended classes in the morning and participated in other activities in the afternoon, including health checks, campus tours and museum visits. 
A graduation ceremony was held last Saturday (25 July) for those elderly students who have successfully completed the elementary course. Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung, Chairman of the Elderly Commission and the Guest of Honour of the ceremony, commended the students for participating in this Elderly Mini-U programme and setting a good example to others.
Same as last year, a credit-bearing course on 'Interpersonal Communication and Voluntary Work Management' was offered this year to the elderly students. Under SPEED's Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM), students can select the subjects and map out their own study plans based on their abilities, interests and aspirations, and accumulate credits for academic awards at their own pace. 
 
