
[date]2009.03.19[/date]
[title]PolyU stages large-scale Job Fair 2009[/title]
Nearly 70 organizations from renowned private enterprises, government departments and professional bodies are taking part in a two-day Job Fair which kicked off today (19 March) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
As a highlight of the month-long careers event entitled 'Together We Can', the Fair seeks to provide students with the latest employment information, offering internship and graduate job opportunities for them. The opening ceremony of the Fair was officiated at by Mr Gregory So Kam-leung, Under Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Bureau of the HKSAR, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, and Professor Arthur Mak, PolyU Dean of Students and Associate Vice President. 
Addressing the opening ceremony, Professor Tong thanked all the participating corporations for their commendable efforts in putting together the meaningful event. He said, 'Your great support does not only benefit our students, but also represents the confidence of the community in them. I am certain that our students will grasp the opportunity to meet with industry practitioners, gather first-hand information on various organizations, as well as market their skills and abilities to prospective employers.' 
With the support of the member organizations of various associations, namely, The Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong Logistics Association, Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations Ltd. and PolyU Student Competitiveness Development Committee, this year's fair saw the highest number of exhibitors. Among them are such well-known corporations as Wharf T &amp; T Ltd., Shui On Building Contractors Ltd., Hong Kong Seibu Enterprise Co. Ltd., and Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Co. Ltd.
To equip students with professional knowledge and workplace skills to prepare them as ready-to-work graduates, PolyU has launched the Work-Integrated Education (WIE), with the 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme (PGDP) as one of its major programmes. Through various placement opportunities in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland or overseas countries, students can obtain valuable working experience before their graduation. 
PolyU's Student Affairs Office has been organizing the month-long careers event on campus from 23 February to 20 March. In addition to the fair, a series of recruitment talks, CEO talks, career training workshops and experience sharing sessions have been arranged to support students in job searching as well as making a successful transition from campus life to the world of work. 
PolyU is also taking a three-pronged approach to ease foreseen employment difficulties its graduates may encounter. The approach comprises generating 300 job opportunities on campus, creating 800 internships with industry partners, as well as providing additional 1,800 places for further studies for graduates and professionals who want to sharpen their competitiveness at this challenging time.
