
[date]2009.03.12[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Symposium of Intimate Apparel[/title]
Organized by the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the 2nd International Symposium of Intimate Apparel was held today (12 March) on PolyU campus to promote the exchange of the latest knowledge and development of intimate apparel among academics and industrialists. The event was supported by the world's leading lingerie and beachwear trade show organizer Eurovet as well as the Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel. 
The Symposium brought together some 170 local and overseas lingerie experts to share their insights and experiences. In the face of the current financial downturn, focus was put on knowledge platform which helped the industry enhance its ability of product innovation and sharpen its competitive edge. The Symposium was kicked off by Prof. Tao Xiao-ming, Head &amp; Chair Professor of ITC and Prof. Andrew Sia, Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association and Chairman &amp; CEO of ACE Style Group.
Distinguished speakers included Prof. Yi Li of ITC; Dr John Cha, Product Development Manager of Bemis Hong Kong Ltd; Mrs Mimi Sia, Executive Director of ACE Style Intimate Apparel Ltd; and Ms Nathalie Martinet, Vice President of R&amp;D and Bra Launch of Victoria's Secret. Emphasis on innovation and new technology was highlighted through the discussion on topics of 'Functional Design of Intimate Apparel for Comfort and Health', 'New Development in Sewfree Technology', 'The Challenge of Bulk Production for Innovative Products' and 'R&amp;D and the Future of Lingerie'.
Concurrent with the Symposium, the Creative Intimate Fashion Exhibition is now on stage until 31 March at the Fashion and Textiles Resource Centre of PolyU. Organized by PolyU's Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel, the exhibition showcases creative and novel designs of PolyU students.
The Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel of ITC is the first lingerie institute in the Asia Pacific, which was established in 2004 based on its outstanding achievements in lingerie research and substantial support from the industry. Over the years, the Institute's research has reaped fruitful results and gained international reputation. Its graduates from the BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel are well sought after by the industry. Starting from 2008/09 academic year, the programme has been converted to a government-funded articulation programme. This milestone not only signifies the quality of the programme, but also charts a new chapter in the development of local tertiary education in lingerie.
Detailed information of the exhibition is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/.
