
[date]2009.03.20[/date]
[title]Government Funds PolyU Maritime Scholarship with Another HK$ 4 million[/title]
The HKSAR government is topping up the Hong Kong Maritime Scholarship Scheme with HK$4 million for the 2009/10 and 2010/11 academic years. The Scheme was set up with government funding in the year 2007 by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the sole provider of maritime education at tertiary level in the territory.
Professor Judy Tsui, Director of PolyU's Graduate School of Business says, 'In view of the current economic downturn, we have reduced the tuition fee for the full-time mode of MSc in ISTL (Master of Science in International Shipping and Transport Logistics) programme. As a result, the number of sponsored students for the school years 2009/10 and 2010/2011 will rise to 32.' The Hon Miriam Lau, Chairperson of the Scheme's Steering Committee, encourages in particular local graduates to make an application. The scholarship is open to prospective full-time students from the Chinese Mainland and elsewhere taking the MSc ISTL programme. She reveals that during 2007/08 and 2008/09, a total of 22 students had their tuition fees and living costs covered by the scholarship.
Dr Hon-shu Wong, Programme Director of MSc ISTL, says that times are hard at the moment, both for Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. This is the point where we further build up strength for longer-term development. Members of the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies will remain committed to improving maritime education and producing experienced professionals. As long as China reaches their 8% economic growth target, foreign investment will continue and Hong Kong practitioners should have a wider vision of their future, Dr Wong comments.
Miss Olive Lin, one of the earliest scholarship awardees and graduates of the full-time MScISTL programme, was grateful that the funding lifted her financial burden. On top of the acquired knowledge and skills, there were exchanges of stimulating ideas and sharing of real world experience among the participants many of which were industry practitioners.
The PolyU MSc ISTL programme which covers cross-discipline as well as specialist subjects had its curriculum developed in consultation with experts of the industry. Apart from the compulsory subjects including finance for shipping and logistics, international logistics systems, operations and management, organisational management in shipping and logistics, shipping law, and supply chain management, students can choose from a wide range of electives in relation to the fields of shipping and transport logistics, shipping law and port management according to their needs. Recipients of the scholarship are required to complete 240 hours of maritime industry internship and have to serve Hong Kong's maritime industry for at least one year after graduation. 
The deadline for application is 30 April 2009.  More information is available at www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb/lms.  
