
[date]2009.08.24[/date]
[title]PolyU EMBA Students Inspired by Successful CEOs who Managed Against the Wind[/title]
A delegation of 43 China Mobile managers were enlightened by the successful experience of some executives in the recent financial tsunami at a seminar themed 'Managing Against the Wind' held today (24 August) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). They all are students of the EMBA programme jointly offered by PolyU and the Zhejiang University (ZhejiangU).
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU's Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business said, 'Interacting with professional experts and learning from the extensive experience of business leaders is an important focus of our executive education.' Some businesses weathered the storm with 'aggressive investment over the past years' while others adopted 'an extremely conservative, cash-focused business philosophy', she quoted. The science of management, or the art of leadership, is worth our exploring in greater detail, she commented.
Speaking at the seminar was Mr Andrew Tsui, Chairman of Korn/Ferry International (HK) who, together with brand consultant Ms Mina Hsu, interviewed twelve senior executives from a range of industries including financial services, creative services, luxury goods, cosmetics, retail, utilities, real estate and construction during May to July to learn how they led their companies to outperform competitors. Their thoughts were detailed and analyzed in their co-authored white paper titled 'Managing Against the Wind'.
Staying on the course in long term strategy, continued investment in people development and training, and realization of brand values are among key strategies. In terms of the legacy of the crisis, most expected a refocus on discipline, accountability and sustainability while some believed it would pass without much lasting effect. The seminar inspired participants to review their business strategies, risk management and business practices before deciding on which direction to take forward. 
The white paper, co-authored by Mr Andrew Tsui and Ms Mina Hsu, Brand, Marketing, Communications Consultant of Mina Hsu Consulting, covers the reflection of senior executives from CLP Holdings Ltd, Estée Lauder Companies, Gammon Construction Ltd, Hang Seng Bank, Richemont Group, Hongkong Land Ltd, Ogilvy &amp; Mather Asia Pacific, Prudential Corporation Asia, Standard Charted Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd and The Dairy Farm Group. 
The seminar was part of a six-day EMBA study tour organized by PolyU Graduate School of Business. Tour members visited the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd and the Wharf Communications Ltd in addition to attending management lectures.  This is part of the PolyU business education which helps students develop strategic and analytical thinking from a regional perspective in view of the closer collaboration between Chinese mainland and Hong Kong. 
The EMBA programme jointly offered by PolyU and ZhejiangU was accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA). It provides an internationalized and integrated management education for senior business executives, professionals and leaders from various organizations and at different levels on the Chinese mainland. 
PolyU's Faculty of Business achieved accreditation status of European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) awarded by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD).  It has also been ranked among Asia's Top 3 and the world's Top 70 business schools by The University of Texas at Dallas. 
ZhejiangU's School of Management has been ranked among the Top 3 business schools in China. It was among the first business schools approved by the State Ministry of Education to offer EMBA programme.
