
[date]2009.04.16[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures future entrepreneurs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) awarded nine winning teams of the Global Student Challenge: PolyU Pre-Challenge 2008/09 today (16 April) at an awards presentation ceremony on campus.
The Contest, formerly known as 'PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest', provides a platform for full-time PolyU students to translate  their creative ideas into sound business ventures. It is an annual programme launched since 2001.
PolyU Associate Vice President &amp; Dean of Students Prof. Arthur Mak said, 'I am pleased to see that more and more students have expressed an interest in this programme. This contest helps foster entrepreneurial spirit among the younger generation and prepare them for the ever-changing and highly competitive business world.  We want to express our heartfelt thanks to IDT International Limited for its generous sponsorship of this competition over the years.'
This year, 63 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of 137 students participated in the first round competition, devising innovative ideas on products, management and or services. Twenty-nine teams had been shortlisted for Round II, from which three teams had been identified for joining the Final Round. They presented their business proposals in details to the panel of judges, comprising of Mr Kenji Yum, Business Development Manager of IDT International Ltd; Mr Kenji Yum, Business Development Manager of IDT International Ltd; Mr Ken Lo, Director of Foo Hang Jewellery Limited and Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development), PolyU.  
The contestants were required to formulate their business plans under the guidance of an academic advisor.  Training workshops on relevant topics such as 'Marketing Research and Planning', 'Business Plan Writing Skills', 'Financial Planning for Business Plan', 'Presentation Skills' and 'Self-enhancement' were provided to the contesting students free of charge.   
Diamond, Platinum and Gold prizes were awarded basing on the following five judging criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technology novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/ development plan and presentation skills.  The team with the Diamond Award will be representing Hong Kong to join the Global Student Challenge (GSC) finals in June. The GSC is the first-ever global business plan competition hosted by PolyU for secondary and university students from around the world.
Diamond, Platinum and Gold awards winning teams received a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000 respectively while other three first and second runners-up received the Excellence Awards of $5,000 and Merit Awards of $3,000 respectively.
The winning teams are as follows:
Diamond Award of Innovation: Easy MusicStudent: Francis Tso Chi-to and Yuen Hoi-manAdvisor: Ms Josephine Wong, Lecturer, School of Accounting &amp; Finance
Platinum Award of Innovation: Road TouchpalStudent: Cally Wong Ching, Bryan Mak Ka-leung, Olivia Fung Hiu-ka and Elaine Leung Yuk-lingAdvisor: Dr Susanna Yuen, Associate Professor, School of Accounting &amp; Finance
Gold Award of Innovation: GreenvolutionStudent: Tong Ngai-hang, Chung Ho-ting, Cheung Ka-chunAdvisor: Dr C.K. Kwong, Associate Professor, Department of Industrial &amp; Systems Engineering
