
[date]2009.06.22[/date]
[title]PolyU honours awardees of the “Youreable” Fashion Design 2009[/title]
The 'Youreable' Fashion Design 2009, organized by the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has come to a fruitful close. An award presentation ceremony was held today (21 June) on the university campus to pay tribute to the elderly and disabled participants for their hard work.
A total of six awards were presented for the Best Design, Best Effort, Best Team, Best Interpretation, Best Potential and Most Creative Design at the ceremony officiated by the Hon. Mr Matthew Cheung, Secretary for Labour and Welfare of the Hong Kong SAR Government; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, 'I am glad to see that more than 20 students of ITC have shown their concern for those people in need by contributing their expertise in this meaningful event. Under the technical guidance and support of our ITC students, participants are able to design and tailor-make garments for their loved ones.'
Co-organized by the Hong Kong Federation of Handicapped Youth, Caritas Hong Kong Services for the Elderly, The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council and St James' Settlement, the event provides the elderly and the disabled with an opportunity to unleash their talents in fashion design and apparel making. The event also helps foster community care and social inclusion through teaming up the elderly and the disabled with others in the community.
Among the 150 finished products, 24 have been selected and the loved ones of the elderly and disabled participants also dressed in these outfits at a catwalk show. Other activities of the ceremony include a singing performance put on by The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council house band and a sharing session with the student volunteers.
Established in 2007, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia which promotes the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the disabled and the elderly. The Centre has brought together multi-disciplinary experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals. 
