
[date]2009.04.30[/date]
[title]PolyU receives strong boosts to promote internationalization[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has received donations amounting to over HK$7 million to launch the Global Student Challenge (GSC) as a major initiative to promote internationalization. 
PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong today (30 April) gratefully acknowledged the donations in cash and in kind from the donors and supporting organisations for the GSC at a special ceremony. Attending guests included Ms Crystal Choi, Executive Director of Early Light International (Holdings) Ltd.; Dr Chow Yei-ching, Chairman of Chevalier Education &amp; Cultural Foundation; and Mr Dirk Dalichau, General Manager of The Mira Hong Kong.
Prof. Tong said, 'The widespread support from the community for this meaningful initiative and keen participation of students from different parts of the world is a significant recognition of PolyU's effort in promoting internationalization. I strongly believe that students, through participation in the Challenge, can develop innovative entrepreneurship and broaden their international horizon.'
The international competition has attracted more than 180 teams from secondary schools and universities from 21 countries and territories. Among them, 60 finalist teams (please click here for the list) have been selected for the final to be held at PolyU in June 2009.
The GSC is divided into Secondary and University categories. Based on an innovative product or service idea, participating teams have formulated and submitted their business proposals in March 2009. The entries have been reviewed by a judging panel, which is comprised of renowned entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and academics, based on four criteria: innovation and creativity, technical soundness, organizational plan and management structure, and projection of financial performance. 
The 60 finalist teams are required to submit their business plan powerpoint presentation by 15 May 2009. At the final to be held from 5-6 June 2009, the teams will also be judged by the performance of their presentation. Winners of Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards as well as the Theme Award for each Division will then be selected. Each awardee will receive a cash prize, a trophy and a certificate. 
After the competition, PolyU will also arrange education excursion for the non-local students to enrich their learning during their stay in Hong Kong.
The sponsors/supporting organizations for GSC are listed as follows:
Diamond SponsorDr Francis Choi
Emerald SponsorChevalier Education &amp; Cultural FoundationThe Mira Hong Kong
Gold SponsorOregon Scientific
Official CarrierCathay Pacific Airways Ltd.Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd.
Supporting OrganisationThe Hong Kong Tourism Board
Co-organiser (in the Chinese mainland)International Strategic Technology Alliance 
For detailed information, please visit the GSC's official website at www.polyu.edu.hk/PolyUChallenge.
 
