
[date]2009.03.13[/date]
[title]Opening of Ko Wah-man sculpture exhibition cum closing of 4th PolyU Arts Festival[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been staging its 4th Arts Festival from February to April this year. With the theme of 'Visual Arts', a series of expedition programmes have been organized to broaden students' artistic and cultural vision, contributing to their all-round development. With the Festival now coming to a successful close, PolyU will stage renowned sculptor Prof. Norman Ko Wah-man's first-ever one-man outdoor sculpture exhibition as the grand finale. A ribbon-cutting ceremony was held today (13 March) which was officiated at by Mrs Selina Tsang, Wife of HKSAR Chief Executive; Prof. Norman Ko Wah-man; Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Prof. Arthur Mak, PolyU Associate Vice President and Dean of Students; and Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Chairman of PolyU Culture Promotion Committee.
Addressing the participants, Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, 'Arts is one of the best ways to break down barriers between people, to open doors and to build bridges. I am proud to say, this year's festival has been an eye-opening experience for all the participants who have taken part in the month-long festivities with infectious enthusiasm. Prof. Norman Ko is a man of incredible versatility, being both a distinguished academic as well as an eminent artist. An all-rounder in its truest sense, Prof. Ko is indeed a perfect role model of the kind of all-round students our university is committed to groom.'
Prof. Ko is an expert in the mechanical engineering field. Yet, he has multiple talents in photography, underwater photography, painting and sculpting. His works of art have been featured in nearly 80 exhibitions worldwide and 19 of them are one-man exhibitions. Many of his larger sculptures are on display in public places locally. 
From now till 29 March, PolyU will present on campus more than 60 spectacular sculptures from Prof. Ko's 'Wings' and 'Ladies' collections in an exhibition titled 'My Perpetual Vision'. To tie in with this exhibition, Prof. Ko will also host a talk on 27 March to share his personal encounters with monumental sculptures around the world over the past 40 years. 
Participated by over 5,000 students, staff and patrons from the public, this year's Arts Festival features a series of programmes and exhibitions including: masterpieces of mural painting, contemporary Lingnan painting, outdoor sculptures, award-winning films and documentaries, as well as experimental workshops on Chinese painting, origami, colour drawing, mosaic art, glass-blowing and night photography. Created by PolyU students and staff using mixed media, a large mural painting titled 'Our Dream Wall' is now being displayed on campus.
For details of the Festival programmes, please visit http://www.cpc.polyu.edu.hk/eng/program_f.htm 
