
[date]2009.02.24[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its Outstanding Student Awards to distinguished students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits at a ceremony held on campus today  (24 February).
This year, the top award of 'Most Outstanding PolyU Student' went to Mr Liu Man-kit, a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Civil Engineering from the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering. He has also been named the Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use. 
Man-kit ranked first in class in his last two years of study and was the winner of the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2008/09, the AIA Foundation Scholarship in 2007/08, the Geotechnics and Concrete Engineering Scholarship and the University Scholarship in 2006/07.  He was also on the Dean's Honours List in 2007 and 2008. Apart from achieving top academic results, Man-kit has also actively participated in co-curricular activities. He was leader of the University's Cultural Exchange and Study Tour in Sichuan and ambassador of various student and youth development programmes, which included: the 'Interactive Qualifying Project' conducted by students of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, the 'Good Starter Programme' under the University's 'SPECIAL Portfolio Project' and the 'Solar Project' launched by Radio Television Hong Kong.
The other five awardees, who are also full-time final year students, are: Miss Winslet Chan Ting-yan of the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles, Mr Chan Hing-fong of the Faculty of Business; Mr Shen Shunrong of the Faculty of Engineering; Mr Tam Wing-kin of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Miss Wong Yuk-chun of the Faculty of Humanities.
Miss Winslet Chan Ting-yan is studying Fashion and Textiles (Fashion Retailing) at the Institute of Textiles and Clothing. She graduated from the diploma programme in fashion retailing with credit in 2007 and ranked first in class in the past year of study. She won the Bronze Prize of The Sincere Scholarship for Innovation and Retailing and was on the Dean's Honours List in 2007/08. Winslet has been actively involved in co-curricular activities. She had been to the U.S. for an exchange programme and is also a volunteer of a number of charitable organisations. 
Mr Chan Hing-fong is studying Marketing in the Department of Management and Marketing. He ranked first in class in the past two years and has won for three consecutive years from 2006-2009 both the University Scholarship and The Hong Kong Jockey Club Scholarship. He was also on the Dean's Honours List in 2006/07. Hing-fong had been to Switzerland for an exchange programme and Australia for placement under PolyU's 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme.
Mr Shen Shunrong is a student of Electrical Engineering. He was winner of the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2008/09 and the University Scholarship from 2006/07 to 2007/08. Shunrong was among the top two in class in the past two years and was on the Dean's Honour List in 2006/07. He is not only a high achiever in the Department, but also an active participant in co-curricular activities. He had also been to Shanghai for a summer internship programme and to Canada for an exchange programme. 
Mr Tam Wing-kin, a student of Biomedical Engineering of the Department of Health Technology and Informatics, ranked first in class in his last two years of study. He was the winner of the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2008/09, the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Scholarship in 2007/08, the University Scholarship and the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers Scholarship from 2006/07 to 2007/08. Apart from his keen participation in co-curricular activities, Wing-kin had also been to Tsinghua University for a summer internship programme and to Sichuan for a cultural exchange and study programme. 
Miss Wong Yuk-chun is studying Language Studies for the Professions. She was awarded the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2008/09, the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Scholarship and the Sun Hing Holdings Limited Scholarship in 2007/08, as well as the Dean's Certificate of Academic Achievement from 2006/07 to 2007/08. Yuk-chun had been to New York for an internship programme and Beijing for placement under PolyU's 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme.
PolyU President Prof. Timothy Tong commended the awardees for their outstanding performance, 'Their accomplishment is concrete proof that PolyU has succeeded in achieving our first and foremost strategic objective of grooming all-round leaders for our society. Not only excel in academic areas, they also demonstrate leadership, fine personality and social awareness. I am certain that they will make good use of their talents and contribute to the well-being of our community and the world at large.' 
PolyU's Outstanding Student Award is granted on an annual basis to full-time final-year students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits during their studies. Each academic department is allowed to nominate one candidate, who has to compete with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. Subsequently, the 'Most Outstanding PolyU Student' is selected among the six awardees from different faculties. 
The selection of awardees is based on five criteria of equal weighting: academic achievement, leadership, involvement in co-curricular activities, community service experience and exposure, and personal qualities. Awardees are each presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000 and with their names inscribed on a plaque on PolyU campus.
