
[date]2009.02.14[/date]
[title]PolyU and Sik Sik Yuen jointly establish the Optometry Centre for Children, the Elderly and the Needy in Hong Kong[/title]
The School of Optometry of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and religious charity Sik Sik Yuen, with the support of Wong Tai Sin District Healthy &amp; Safe City, have jointly established the Sik Sik Yuen ' PolyU Optometry Centre to provide comprehensive eye care services for children, the elderly and the needy. The Centre aims to increase public awareness of the importance of regular eye check to eliminate preventable vision loss. It is estimated that over 5,000 citizens will benefit from this service annually.
The opening ceremony of the Centre was launched today (14 February) at Sik Sik Yuen Social Services Complex by Dr the Hon. York Chow, Secretary for Food and Health of HKSAR Government; Mr. Lee Yiu-fai, Chairman of Sik Sik Yuen; and Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU. 
In his address at the opening ceremony, Dr. Chow said, 'I believe the collaboration of PolyU and Sik Sik Yuen in providing professional eye check and care services to the needy can help the public protect their eyes and learn more about eye care.'
Mr. Lee Yiu-fai, Chairman of Sik Sik Yuen said, 'Our Yuen is delighted to collaborate with PolyU. The joint initiative is significant as it broadens the scope of our Yuen's health care and medical services. We believe that by collaborating with a distinguished university, our services can benefit more people in need.'
PolyU President Prof. Tong remarked, 'With an ageing population in Hong Kong, more people are suffering from systemic and eye diseases as a result. As the only institution offering degree programme in Optometry in Hong Kong, PolyU is genuinely concerned with the ocular health of the general public. We are privileged to set up the Centre with Sik Sik Yuen to jointly promote the importance of regular eye examination among the needy.'
The Centre aims to support the development of community eye care. PolyU's student optometrists, under the guidance of professionals from the School of Optometry, will provide comprehensive eye care services to patients, including assessment of vision, measurement of refractive error, assessment of coordination between the two eyes, evaluation of ocular health, diagnosis and management of visual conditions services. The Centre therefore provides a platform for student optometrists to serve the community and gain clinical experience.
In order to help the needy access the Centre's services, Sik Sik Yuen will subsidize the whole or partial consultation fees for qualified low income groups. The consultation fee is HK$180. The Centre opens from Monday to Saturday: 9:00 a.m. ' 6:00 p.m. (Closed from 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m.) and closes on Sunday and public holidays. All consultations are by appointment. Please contact the Centre at (852) 2329 8622 for appointments. Any enquiries about the exemption of consultation fee, please contact Sik Sik Yuen at (852) 2327 8141.
About Sik Sik Yuen
Sik Sik Yuen, the religious charity organization practicing Taoism, Buddhism and Confucianism, was established in 1921 to manage the Wong Tai Sin Temple, one of Hong Kong's most famous place of worship as well as a major tourism site in Hong Kong. Adhering to the benevolent philosophy of Wong Tai Sin himself, 'To Act Benevolently and to Teach Benevolence,' Sik Sik Yuen has been ministering to the needy for more than 80 years through education, medical assistance and care for the elderly. In education, Sik Sik Yuen has set up three primary schools, four secondary schools and one through-train school seven kindergartens and child care centres as well as one nature education cum astronomical centre. The Yuen offers diversified medical services through its Herbal Clinic, General Clinic, Dental Clinic and Physiotherapy Centre. For the elderly, Sik Sik Yuen runs 17 senior citizens' service units.
About the School of Optometry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
The School of Optometry runs Hong Kong's only degree programme in Optometry for professional qualification as optometrists. The programme is considered to be the best in Asia and is highly regarded worldwide. The School is also an official sports vision care partner of the China's National Sport Training Centre, giving China's athletes the best vision care possible as they prepared for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
