
[date]2009.07.23[/date]
[title]PolyU joins hand with local comic artist to promote public health[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been collaborating with local comic artist Mr Aken Leung to publish a comic book entitled 'Healthy, Happy Life Theatre', which provides the general public with useful information about health and well-being.
The 92-page comic book consists of 37 discrete four-panel comic strips, covering the daily lives of a family of four named 'Healthy and Happy'. The book highlights various health and well-being issues with professional advice given by FHSS's constituent departments and schools. The topics cover a broad range from mental health, physiotherapy to nursing, eye care and infection control including influenza A (H1N1) (also known as 'human swine flu'). The funny comic strips are both an interesting read and an effective means to convey the message to the public.
Mr Aken Leung said he was honoured to be invited by FHSS to create the health comic series. He added that through the collaboration, he learned a lot about the work of FHSS's different disciplines and their relevance to people's lives. He hoped that readers will gain a better understanding that 'a healthy body means a happy life' after reading the book.
FHSS is also joining hands with The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups (HKFYG) at the Hong Kong Book Fair 2009 to promote health and well-being to members of the public. With the special coupon from the newspapers or from FHSS's website (fhss.polyu.edu.hk), members of the public may get  a complimentary copy of the comic book from HKFYG's stall (3D10-10) located in the Teens' Paradise themed zone from now to 28 July.
About Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) consists of five departments and schools that conduct teaching, research, consultancy and services in health and applied social sciences. Some of its disciplines are unique in Hong Kong, namely Medical Laboratory Science, Optometry, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, and Radiography. It also regularly organises events and activities in the community to promote good health practices and knowledge to different sectors of society and the general public.
About Mr Aken Leung
Mr Aken Leung, a local comic artist and illustrator, graduated from an arts university in the U.S. He lived stateside for 10 years before returning to Hong Kong. His 'Ah-Lei' comic series are popular among teenagers and white-collar workers in Hong Kong, and was on the best-seller list for six consecutive weeks.
About the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups
Established in 1960, The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups (HKFYG) is one of the territory's largest non-profit organisations, focused exclusively on youth work. HKFYG's motto is 'Caring for Youth, Caring for the Community' and its main objective is to provide opportunities and facilities for the social, educational, cultural and physical development of young people. HKFYG has established a wide range of care and guidance services for Hong Kong youths, providing more than 10,000 youth activities annually through more than 60 service units, which have an attendance record of 5 million. There are over 270,000 members in its u21 youth network, and over 110,000 members in its Youth Volunteer Network. HKFYG has 12 core services for youths, namely youth employment; leadership training; volunteer services; services for youths-at-risk; counselling services; education services; services for parents; youth exchanges; e-services; leisure, cultural and sports services; youth research; and Youth S.P.O.T.s.
