
[date]2009.09.01[/date]
[title]PolyU welcomes students to new academic year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s new academic year kicked off with a series of welcome ceremonies held on campus for its full-time students today (1 September). 
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, extended a warm welcome to the freshmen at the ceremony. This was also the first welcome ceremony officiated by Prof. Tong since his assumption of presidency early in the year. In his welcoming address, he said, 'While PolyU is proud of our application-oriented education and research, we have not lost sight of the importance of strengthening our students' holistic development.' He expected PolyU students and graduates to become 'practical dreamers' who possess professional expertise, a global outlook, good problem-solving abilities and effective communication skills to meet the needs of the region and rise to the challenges of the new global age.
The new academic year sees the admission of some 4,518 students funded by the University Grants Committee, including 2,434 Bachelor's degree and 2,084 higher diploma students. Close to 90 per cent of the undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as their Band A choices. In addition, there are about 600 self-financed full-time students enrolled in the degree programmes.
There are also 247 Chinese mainland students joining the foundation programme this year. PolyU received about 3,660 applications from mainland students. Among them, 87 per cent have met the entrance requirements of state key universities. The majority of them came from Beijing, Guangdong and Shanghai.
At postgraduate level, PolyU received about 3,240 applications from non-local students this year, a great leap of 70 per cent compared to last year. The University has admitted some 430 non-local and 2,925 local students for its taught postgraduate programmes covering a diverse range of disciplines.   
In addition, the University has admitted 35 international students from 14 countries and territories, including Canada, Indonesia, Israel, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, Ukraine and Venezuela. They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different professional-oriented programmes offered by the University.
In recognition of their academic or non-academic achievements, PolyU has awarded scholarships to over 90 students. They include 35 local students who have achieved excellent results in the Advanced Level Examinations or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by international standards; 47 mainland students who excelled in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination; and 7 international students. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance, have been granted to these students basing on their academic or non-academic achievements. 
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 60 students are admitted to the University via the Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme, 41 through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations Scheme, and 1,421 through the Self Recommendation Scheme.
Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU's Student Exchange Programme offers students opportunities to study and experience a different culture at about 200 renowned universities across more than 25 countries and regions. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 550 international students and send forth an equivalent number of its students abroad for exchange this year. 
Currently, more than 235 students from some 80 institutions in 18 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, the Chinese mainland, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the Philippines, UK and US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
