
[date]2009.03.02[/date]
[title]PolyU Graduate School of Business Organises Information Seminars on DBA &amp; MBA Programmes[/title]
The Graduate School of Business (GSB) of Faculty of Business at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organise information seminars on its Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) Programmes on 7 March 2009 on PolyU campus.
PolyU DBA is designed to cultivate senior executives to become 'scholar-managers'.  As a scholar-manager, the students will develop new insights and understanding, benefiting their organisations and enriching their professional and personal life.  The DBA programme offered by PolyU is the first local university to initiate this professional cum academic programme at the highest level of business education.  The programme is in collaboration with three world-class business schools ' the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) in Switzerland, the Sauder School of Business (Sauder School) at the University of British Columbia in Canada and the Simon Graduate School of Business (Simon School) of the University of Rochester in the United States. IMD offers a credit-bearing elective for PolyU DBA participants while scholars from the Sauder School and the Simon School co-teach certain subjects at PolyU.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) programmes feature a balanced mix of general management education and specific professional training, the five concentrations provided are General Management, Fashion Business, Financial Services, Information Technology Management and Innovation and Design Management.  All these programmes balance between theory and practice and are taught by world-class academics, business leaders and experienced industry professionals. Interactive teaching methodology, including online platform, is adopted to facilitate knowledge and ideas exchanged between teachers and students in classroom.  Real world case studies are shared by teachers and overseas exchange activities are arranged for students to develop their international outlook.
The DBA programme is among the first DBAs in the world having been accredited by the UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA), while the MBA programme has also received the AMBA accreditation. The PolyU Faculty of Business was accredited in 2007 by the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) in recognition of its programmes, research and internationalisation.
Details of the information seminars are as follows:
 
7 March 2009 (Saturday)
Time
Venue
Programme
2:30 pm ' 3:15 pm
MN102c
Doctor of Business Administration
2:30 pm ' 4:00 pm
N001
Master of Business Administration
- General Management
- Fashion Business
- Financial Services
- Information Technology Management
- Innovation and Design Management
Tel : (852) 2766 7087   Email : gsbenq@polyu.edu.hk Website: : www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb
