
[date]2009.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU co-hosts International Convention and Expo Summit 2009[/title]
More than 150 participants are gathering in Hong Kong from now to 20 May to attend the International Convention and Expo Summit 2009 (ICES 2009), which is jointly organised by the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the William F. Harrah College of Hotel Administration, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (Singapore Campus). 
The Summit was officially opened today (18 May) by Mr James Tien, Chairman of Hong Kong Tourism Board; Mr Vincent Fung, Assistant Commissioner for Tourism, Tourism Commission, Hong Kong SAR Government; Mr Daniel Cheung, Executive Vice Chairman, Hong Kong Exhibition and Convention Industry Association; Dr Andy Nazarechuk, Summit Co-Chairman, Dean of the William F. Harrah College of Hotel Administration, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (Singapore Campus); and Professor Kaye Chon, Summit Co-Chairman, Chair Professor and Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, PolyU. 
ICES 2009 is also the first international summit that is planned and organised by 30 SHTM students who are taking the subject of Meeting Management ' Special Event Project. Organising ICES 2009 not only helps students explore their potentials, but also provides them with valuable opportunities to apply their knowledge and practice their skills in real life settings. 
Themed "Connect Asia Today", ICES 2009 is devoted to establishing its position as the leading summit of the MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions and Exhibitions) industry in Asia. More importantly, it provides academics, researchers, industry practitioners and representatives of professional industry associations with an inter-disciplinary forum for exchanging views on the growing significance of MICE in Asia.
The panel sessions cover three topics, namely "Connecting Asia Today", "Enriching Learning and Exchanges in MICE Education", and "Projecting the Future". In addition, an industry session entitled "Hong Kong New MICE Product Showcase" will be staged on the second day of the Summit. Leading industry players will share update information of the MICE sector, coupled with site visits to the latest MICE venue cluster in Hong Kong. 
Many prominent international and local scholars and experts have been invited as the speakers of the Summit. They include (in alphabetical order):
Professor Amy Chan, Honorary Professor, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, PolyU
Professor Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director, School of Hotel and Tourism Management, PolyU
Mr Michael Duck, Senior Vice President, UBM Asia Limited
Ms Helena Fernandes, Deputy Director, Macau Government Tourist Office
Ms Jane Vong Holmes, Regional Director Asia Pacific, International Congress and Convention Association
Mr Graham Keene, Group Executive Chairman, WorldEvents
Dr Aliana Leong, Associate Dean, Faculty of International Tourism, Macau University of Science and Technology
Mr James Lu, Executive Director, Hong Kong Hotels Association
Mr Willy Luk, Regional Director of Sales, Regal Hotels International
Dr Andy Nazarechuk, Dean, William F. Harrah College of Hotel Administration, University of Nevada, Las Vegas (Singapore Campus)
Mr Michael Tay, Director of Operations, Asia-Pacific, Meeting Professionals International
Mr Justin Ungerboeck, Manager of Market Communications and General Counsel, Ungerboeck Systems International Limited
Mr Cliff Wallace, Managing Director, Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre Management Limited
Mr Stuart Wang, Chief Commercial Officer, AsiaWorld-Expo Management Limited
Ms Gilly Wong, General Manager, Meetings and Exhibitions Hong Kong, Hong Kong Tourism BoardFor more details and programme of ICES 2009, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/ices2009
 
