
[date]2009.04.28[/date]
[title]Pilot version of public transport route search service launched[/title]
A pilot version of the 'Public Transport Enquiry Service' (PTES) was launched by the Transport Department today (28 April). This new service will provide users with free public transport point-to-point route searches on the Internet.
'The Hong Kong public transport system carries more than 11 million passengers per day, but most of the available public transport point-to-point route search services on the Internet only show information for one particular kind of transport mode, which might be inconvenient to passengers,' the Assistant Commissioner for Transport/Technical Services, Mr Tsang King-man, said when introducing the new service.
He said the PTES developed by the Transport Department and the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics of Hong Kong Polytechnic University would solve the inadequacy by offering a one-stop portal for a multi-modal public transport point-to-point route search service with map information. People would then be able to make more appropriate choices for pre-trip planning with comprehensive information.
'We hope that the PTES can provide motorists with useful information and encourage them to make use of public transport instead of driving, with the aim of creating an environment with less emissions,' Mr Tsang said.
Through this free e-service, the public can search the possible routes based on number of interchanges, fare, estimated journey time and preferred transport mode. The suggested route choices will cover regular public transport services with fixed routes and timetables.
The PTES is also equipped with map information to facilitate users in setting the origin and destination. Users may check the relevant boarding, alighting and interchange locations of the selected public transport route choice on the map for a better understanding of the vicinity of the locations.
A search for detailed information for a particular public transport route is also allowed by inputting the route number or service type.
The pilot version of the PTES is available for trial from today (April 28). The website is http://ptes.td.gov.hk . The public transport services include Mass Transit Railway, Light Rail Transit, franchised bus, green minibus, tram, peak tram, ferry, cross boundary coach to Lok Ma Chau/Huanggang and bus to Ma Wan and Discovery Bay.
Mr Tsang hoped that the PTES would provide the majority of users with reasonable route options. The Transport Department and Hong Kong Polytechnic University would keep updating the system data to ensure the reliability of information.
However, he noted that the public transport networks of Hong Kong were highly complex with a variety of services, fares and concessions. He believed there was still room for improvement to the PTES even though it had undergone comprehensive testing. Users should also pay attention to the 'News' section on the website and check the service details so the selected route option would meet their requirements.
Mr Tsang welcomed comment on the pilot version of the PTES for further enhancement of the service.
Any enquiry or comment to the PTES can be made by calling the 1823 Call Centre (Tel. No 1823) or emailing the Transport Department direct (tdenq@td.gov.hk).
(Source: Information Services Department, Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region)
