
[date]2009.04.14[/date]
[title]Chinese officials and leading university heads grace the inauguration celebration[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a special ceremony on 8 April (Wednesday) to celebrate the official installation of Professor Timothy W. Tong as its new President. About 1,000 guests from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas, community leaders, PolyU staff students and alumni attended the ceremony held on the university campus. 
About 50 senior representatives of 18 mainland and Macau universities and government bodies  made a special trip to Hong Kong to join the inauguration celebration. They included Ms Yan Junqi, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress; Prof. Zhou Qi-feng, President of Peking University; Prof. Li Pei-gen, President of Huazhong University of Science and Technology; Prof. Hou Jian-guo, President of the University of Science and Technology of China; Prof Li Yuan-yuan, President of South China University of Technology; Prof. Liu Chuan-sheng, Party Secretary General of the Beijing Normal University; and Prof. Chiu Wai, President of the University of Macau. Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director; and Mr Pan Yong Hua, Director General of Education, Science and Technology Department, both of the Liaison Office of  Central People's Government in the HKSAR, also joined the happy occasion. 
Prior to the Presidential Inauguration Ceremony, PolyU President Professor Tong had a meeting with Ms Yan and the mainland delegates.  Apart from briefing them on the development of PolyU, Professor Tong also made use of the occasion to explore opportunities for future collaboration. A campus tour then followed, led by Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang.    
Professor Tong said, "Having studied and worked in the US for the past 30 years, I am happy to be back to Hong Kong this year to assume the post of President for PolyU.  I look forward to contributing my efforts for the development of education in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland."
Looking ahead, Professor Tong reiterated, "Thanks to the support of the mainland institutions,  PolyU has played an important part in the development of higher education in the  Chinese mainland. We look forward to having further collaboration with institutions on the mainland and nurturing more talents for the motherland in the future." He also expressed his gratitude to the mainland delegates who had come from afar to show their support.
PolyU has started its exchange programme with mainland institutions as early as 1978. It has now established outposts in Hangzhou, Xi'an, Zhuhai, Shenzhen and Wuhan through which the University offers award-bearing programmes in collaboration with mainland universities and organizations. So far, PolyU has nurtured about 4,000 mainland graduates and has established partnership with over 240 mainland institutions, including such renowned institutions as Peking University, Zhejiang University, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Renmin University.  For details on the PolyU Presidential Inauguration, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/cpa/PresidentialInauguration.
    
