
[date]2009.06.11[/date]
[title]PolyU receives donation from mainland enterprise[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (11 June)  received a donation of RMB1 million from Mr Ye Xuefeng of WuXi Innovatech Company Limited, a mainland enterprise in Jiangsu Province, in support of the future development of its Industrial Centre (IC). Since its establishment in 1976, the PolyU IC has grown from a training ground for craftsmanship to a multi-disciplinary 'Learning Factory', preparing trainees for a career in industry through industrial partnership programmes. 
Joining Mr Ye at the presentation ceremony today were Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Dr Lo Wai-kwok, Chairman of IC Steering Committee; and Dr Chris Wong, Director of IC. Mr Ye, Chairman and General Manager of WuXi Innovatech Company Limited, was a research staff member of the Industrial Centre in the 1980s.  
Speaking at the presentation ceremony, Professor Tong remarked, 'The donation carries a very special meaning to the University. Mr Ye's ardent support not only expresses confidence of members of the society in the University, but also testifies to the industry's recognition of PolyU's mission in nurturing professional talents.'  
According to Dr Chris Wong, IC will continue to strive for excellence in engineering education. He said he fully shared the views of a renowned Chinese academic Professor Zhang Shu about the role of IC. According to Professor Zhang, in order to address the development needs of the country, IC should to some extent position itself as the 'Industrial Centre of China', providing support to the mainland enterprises which are undergoing gradual transformation.
This occasion also marked the consignment support of HK$3.5 million worth of advanced equipments from Siemens to PolyU's Industrial Centre. The state-of-the-art facilities, apart from supporting the University's teaching and research activities, enables engineering students to gain more hands-on experiences at IC.
WuXi Innovatech Company Limited, established by Mr Ye Xuefeng, is a mainland enterprise specializing in opto-electric products, intelligent technology and the development of green energy. The company has commercialized a number of high-tech products, and is currently involved in the study for the set-up of a wave energy pilot plant in South Australia.
