
[date]2009.05.23[/date]
[title]Poly U, HKU and Caritas jointly study Brain Health for Youth Drug Users[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the University of Hong Kong (HKU) today (23 May) jointly released their research findings on the 'Brain Health and Emotional Profile for Youth Drug Users'. The study found 64.9 % of the subjects had at least one neuropsychological deficit and 62.2% had depression symptoms.
This study is jointly conducted by PolyU Department of Rehabilitation Sciences and HKU Laboratory of Neuropsychology (NPL) in collaboration with the Caritas Youth and Community Service A Journey of Awakening (Beat Drugs Fund). It aims to examine the potential impact of drug abuse on cognitive abilities and emotions management, and also explores the client's motivation for stop taking drugs.
During the past year, the joint research team of the two universities conducted extensive testing related to the attention, memory, and executive functioning (e.g. logical thinking) of 97 young persons with drug abuse behaviour. The project aims to utilize the assessment results and help young people understand the impact of drug abuse on cognitive functioning and emotional well-being, and motivate them to change their addiction with drugs.
The participants' test scores were compared with the local norms for identification of potential deficits in cognitive functioning. The results showed that 64.9 % of them had at least one neuropsychological deficit among the tested areas. Many of them had impairment in Concentration (31%), Visual Memory (22.8%) and Figural fluency (35%), which could have a great impact on daily functioning and work ability. In addition, many participants had emotional issues, and in particular, 62.2% were showing symptoms of depression.
The brain function assessment reports were presented to 75 out of 97 participants (77.3%) who came for an interview with the experts after the assessment.  The experts presented the test results to each participant, highlighting cognitive function and emotional profile (anxiety or depression) from the test scores. The counselor then explored the clients' perception of  the test results, and their motivation for change. For those who have deficits in cognitive functioning, the experts would provide suggestions for improving their cognitive abilities and compensation methods.
Upon analyzing the contents of interview records of 22 (29.3%), the researchers noted that 54.5% of the participants were in the contemplation stage (which means the subject acknowledge of having a problem with drug abuse and consider doing something about it), 22.7% were taking action in changing their drug abuse, whereas 22.7% fell into the Pre-contemplation stage (does not see the need for change).Peer influence (e.g. friends, boy/girlfriend are regular drug users), family issues such as rebellion toward or conflicts with parents and siblings, were among the main reasons quoted by the participants for taking drugs. Drug taking was also seen by them as a way to manage emotions such as to eliminate boredom, sadness, frustration, anger and insomnia. Their motivation for change counts on several key factors, including health issues, family support and pressure, desire to have some achievements (e.g. further study, career development), to become useful and independent, and to find a long-term partner (female participants). 
After the neuropsychological assessments and interviews were completed, the experts would communicate their opinion with the participants' social worker, who would help the young person plan for appropriate rehabilitation programme. The social workers would also follow up and support the client to take action in managing their drug taking behavior.
The mean age of the participants was 19.6 years old (SD=2.80; age range = 14-25). Among them, 30.9% were male and 69.1% were female. The majority worked in the area of Sales and Services (16.1%); followed by Clerk (9.7%), Catering and Food (8.6%), Construction Work and Engineering (5.4%), Transportation and Logistics (4.3%), and Beauty and Salon (2.2%). Others were either Unemployed (28%) or Students (25.8%). In regard to their education level, 47.4% of the participants have completed F3 or below, 49.5% have completed F5 or below and only 3.1% have attained education above F.5 level. 
 
