
[date]2009.04.29[/date]
[title]PolyU to host symposium on Excellent Teachers on Teaching Excellence[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will host the first symposium on Excellent Teachers on Teaching Excellence on 30 April (Thursday) with a view to providing an occasion for the five recipients of the President's Award, as well as those of the Faculty/School Awards for Excellent/Outstanding Performance and Achievement in Teaching to share with the participants their philosophy and exemplary practices in teaching.
Organized by the Educational Development Centre, participants will be able to exchange insights and further enhance the culture of quality teaching and learning within the PolyU community during the half-day symposium.
The symposium will open with a special sharing session by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong who dedicates himself to teaching for over 30 years. Prof. Tong was voted, for three consecutive years from 1994 to 1996, as Teacher of the Year by the Arizona State University Chapter of Pi Tau Sigma, and received the Ralph R. Teetor Educational Award from the Society of Automotive Engineers in recognition of his teaching innovation.
It will be followed by two presentations given by Dr Alan Lau, Associate Professor of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Dr Jason Choi, Associate Professor of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing, who are recipients of the President's Awards for Excellent Performance and Achievement in Teaching 2007/08. Dr Alan Lau will talk about 'What attitude should an academic have to help students achieve their learning outcomes?' and Dr Jason Choi will speak on the topic 'Becoming a reflective teacher: not taking things for granted'.
In the panel discussion session, recipients of Faculty Awards for Outstanding Performance and Achievement in Teaching 2007/08, namely Ms Karen Lai, Lecturer of the School of Accounting and Finance; Dr Danny Then, Associate Professor, Department of Building Services Engineering; and Dr Yu Kam-por, Senior Lecturer of General Education Centre, will share their experience on 'Challenging students for higher order learning'. 
For more information of the symposium, please visit http://edc.polyu.edu.hk/ExcellentTeacher/programme.html
