
[date]2009.07.24[/date]
[title]PolyU President meets with community leaders in San Francisco[/title]
Professor Timothy W Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has recently made a trip to North America to meet with overseas alumni and community leaders, with a view to updating them on the latest development of the University, expanding PolyU's global reach and paving the way for future collaborations. 
Speaking at a business luncheon organised by the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office (HKETO) of the SAR Government in San Francisco in conjunction with the Hong Kong Association of Northern California and the PolyU Association (Northern California), Professor Tong briefed over 60 educators, academia and business leaders in San Francisco on the upcoming changes of the university structure in Hong Kong.  
He said one of the major challenges tertiary education in Hong Kong currently faced was to switch from the three-year mode to the new four-year curriculum. The new curriculum seeks to infuse students with a broader knowledge base and more all-round development. It will also align the Hong Kong education system with other major education systems in the world.  With the new structure, the universities will need to hire more professors in the next few years. He also encouraged overseas academia to consider pursuing their careers in Hong Kong.
At the business luncheon, Professor Tong gave the audience an overview of the latest development of the University, including the various Research and Development programmes and partnerships with private and public organisations on projects spanning a wide range of aspects from cancer drug research and Chinese medicine to textile technology, electrically driven vehicle mycar, and the "Fibre Optic Sensor System" for railway system.
He said PolyU took prides in its wealth of applied research; and the University has successfully filed more than 600 patents in the past 10 years. Breakthroughs by PolyU researchers have also won over 40 gold awards in international innovation expos. 
HKETO Director in San Francisco Ms Doris Cheung also noted the importance of research at the highest level, both for academic pursuit and for practical application. "Hong Kong has an excellent prospect as an attractive place to conduct research," she said.
During his visit to the North America, Professor Tong also met with former staff and alumni through the University's overseas associations in Northern California and Western Canada, briefing them on the latest achievements and progress of PolyU in recent years.
