
[date]2009.06.18[/date]
[title]Engineering talents unleash creativity in robotic competition[/title]
The Sixth Robotic Project Competition and the Interactive Game Design Competition held by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Electronic and Information Engineering (EIE) on the PolyU campus today (18 June) saw a vigorous display of engineering talents in robot related activities and interactive game designs. 
The fun-filled event consists of two parts. For the first part (Robotic Project Competition), 12 teams of second-year engineering students are required to design mini-robots and to search for a total of 48 ping pong balls of various colours, randomly placed in a grid, within a time limit of two minutes. The championship went to the team with the highest score calculated on the basis of the total number, as well as the correct combination of colours, of the collected balls.
The second part of the event is a very special 'hockey' competition, with 'players' being mini-robots designed by PolyU engineering students. The two mini-robots which are used for demonstration were selected from 12 teams of students participating in the Interactive Game Design Competition held in May this year. 
Dr Kenneth Lam, Acting Head of EIE, said, 'This competition serves as a platform for our undergraduates to enhance their creativity, technical skills and problem-solving ability. It also offers a taste of university life for secondary school students, helping them experience the fun of studying engineering in our daily life.' 
The competitions are part of EIE's innovative effort in providing outcome-based learning experience to students through integrated projects, in which students are required to apply knowledge already learned in different subject areas to address a practical problem. The exciting event also attracted more than 100 students from local universities and secondary schools attending as spectators. 
EIE offers full-time and part-time taught courses of four broad technical areas, namely, Multimedia and Signal Processing, Computer and Intelligent Systems, Circuits and Microelectronics, and Communications Engineering, at levels ranging from undergraduate to doctoral level.
 
