
[date]2009.02.23[/date]
[title]PolyU kicks off month-long Career Event[/title]
To better prepare its students for the job market, the Student Affairs Office of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) unveils a four-week career event to be held from today (23 February) to 20 March on campus.
Introducing this year's event, Director of Student Affairs Mrs Dorinda Fung said, 'This is the largest career event we have ever launched. Under the theme ‘Together We Can', we will give our full support to all students, helping them not only to search for internships or graduate employment, but also to cultivate a positive mind set in taking on future challenges.'
The first activity to kick start the Career Month is an HR forum entitled 'Translating classroom knowledge into workplace skills: Opportunities and Challenges'. HR practitioners from Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu of accounting industry, Gammon Construction Ltd of building and construction industry, and General Mills of retail/consumer products industry, share their views on industry trend and development, as well as offer tips to potential applicants on what employers are expecting from a fresh graduate.
Students will also have the opportunities to join more than 25 recruitment talks delivered by professionals from such well-known organizations as Microsoft Hong Kong Ltd, The Hong Kong and China Gas Co. Ltd, Esquel Enterprises Ltd, Hong Yip Service Co. Ltd, and Inland Revenue Department. By exchanges with representatives of the companies, students can familiarize themselves with the organizations and have a better understanding of the entry requirements and career opportunities in different industries.
Highlight of the month-long event is a large scale Job Fair which will be held from 19 to 20 March. Nearly 70 organizations will be taking part in the fair, offering openings of internship and graduate employment for all students. Among them are renowned private enterprises, government departments and professional bodies from a wide array of industries, ranging from finance and insurance to building and construction, IT and engineering, manufacturing and trading, and business solutions. 
In addition, the Student Affairs Office is organizing a series of CEO talks, career training workshops and experience sharing sessions on campus to support students in job searching as well as developing entrepreneurial flair. Topics of the training workshops include: 'Knowing your strength', 'Transition from campus life to the workplace', 'Mastering aptitude test in job application', 'Interviewing skills', 'Starting your own online business', to name but a few. 
For further information and details of the event, please visit the following website: www.polyu.edu.hk/sao/TogetherWeCan or contact Careers and Placement Services Section of Student Affairs Office:
Telephone: 2766 6800Email: sacareer@inet.polyu.edu.hk
