
[date]2009.02.19[/date]
[title]PolyU contributes to creating study and job opportunities[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is taking a three-pronged approach to ease foreseeable employment difficulty of graduates by creating 300 job opportunities on campus and 800 internships with its industry partners, as well as providing additional 1,800 places for further studies for graduates and professionals who want to sharpen their competitiveness at this challenging time. 
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said that PolyU will render its full support behind Government's appeal to help graduates by providing more education and job opportunities. The University will lead the way with extra 1,800 places for further studies.
These additional 1,800 places consist of additional intake for taught postgraduate programmes, research postgraduate places, extension study places for 2009 graduates, and articulation places for top-up degree programmes.  
PolyU will be offering 66 taught postgraduate (TPg) programmes with an intake capacity of some 3,850 places in the 2009-2010 academic year, with an increase of 550 places from the original planned intake of 3,300.  This provision of TPg places will also contribute to manpower enhancement. 
With the increase of 41 research postgraduate places in 2009/2010 allocated to PolyU by UGC earlier this month, this would make a total of 250 places for this admission exercise. PolyU will expedite the admission of this 250 quota. 
In addition, PolyU is offering greater flexibility for final-year students to extend their undergraduate studies by taking an additional major or minor award or complete a double degree. An intake capacity of 600 study places would be created in this exercise. The University will also allow final year students to opt for sandwich placement.
As for articulation places for Associate Degree graduates, PolyU's Faculties and Academic Departments as well as PolyU's affiliated School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) will jointly provide 610 additional places.
The University will also create 300 posts on campus for fresh graduates to serve as teaching assistants, research assistants and project assistants. 
Further, the University will, through our strong links with local and mainland enterprises, work with them to create some 800 internships in Hong Kong and on the Mainland especially for our graduates. It will be working closely with its network of more than 70 industry and trade associations to explore such opportunities. 
The internships to be provided will cover the areas of (1) accounting, finance, shipping and logistics; (2) design, marketing and management; (3) engineering and construction; (4) hotel and tourism; (5) science and technology; and (6) social services.
PolyU will also encourage its industrial and commercial partners to support their employees to enhance their competitiveness through pursuing job-related short courses offered by the University's Management and Executive Development Centre (MEDC). Other short courses on entrepreneurship skills and professional development will also be available to cater the needs of some 700 professionals or graduates. 
To better prepare its graduates for the job market, PolyU is launching a job fair with 25 recruitment talks from 23 February to 20 March. More than 60 companies have indicated their interest in participating in the fair.  The University will take the opportunity to introduce additional study opportunities at the job fair.  
