
[date]2009.03.12[/date]
[title]DBA and DMgt Alumni Welcome PolyU New President[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Graduate School of Business (GSB) hosted a dinner in Beijing for their doctor's degree alumni and students to welcome the new PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong. The event was held on 1 March 2009 at the Hong Kong Jockey Club Beijing Clubhouse. Prof. Tong was greeted by 30 alumni and students of the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) and the Doctor of Management (DMgt) programmes offered on the Mainland.  
With regard to its mission and goal, Prof. Tong said, 'PolyU has always been improving its standard of teaching and research.  We are striving to become a leading university not only in Hong Kong but also on the Mainland and in the Asia-Pacific region pioneering in unique as well as in interdisciplinary areas such as sustainable development and entrepreneurship.  According to an independent ranking exercise conducted by the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD), our Graduate School of Business has been ranked among Asia's top 3 and the world's first 70 business schools. The league table was compiled based on research contributions to 24 leading journals in business from 2004 to 2008.' 
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business, announced that there will be a Nobel Laureates Forum on 7 April as part of the Presidential inaugural activities.  It would be a rare opportunity to gain insights about the global financial situation from the two renowned economists, Prof. Robert Mundell and Prof. John Nash. In relation to executive education, Prof. Tsui said, 'We are focusing on areas such as Asian leadership, risk management and corporate governance, brand management, logistics and marketing management which GSB has a reputation for excellence. There are plans for post-doctoral education in these areas as they are highly relevant to the economic development of China.'
Attendees of the dinner included senior officials of the Chinese Government, senior corporate executives and business leaders.  Among them were Dr Wen Ku, Director General, Department of Science and Technology, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Dr Chen Yin, Director General, Department of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Dr Simon Leung, Chairman and CEO, Greater China Region, Microsoft, Dr Kao Rueybin, President and General Manager (Asia Pacific), Motorola (China) Electronics Limited, Dr Li Yue, Vice President of China Mobile Communications Corporation, Prof. Mao Jiye, Associate Dean, School of Business, Renmin University of China, and Mr Jeffrey Ma, Executive Vice President of Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Company Limited.
