
[date]2009.08.31[/date]
[title]PolyU to host exam for electricians[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) announces that the examination for registration as a Grade C electrical worker will be held on November 3 and 5 on PolyU campus. Application for sitting the examination is from 1 to 30 September.
There is no minimum entry requirement for the examination, although preference will be given to current registered electrical workers, in particular Grade B electrical workers. Any worker who wishes to be qualified for registration as a Grade C electrical worker is required to pass this examination.
According to Dr Lo Wai-chau, spokesman of the examination committee and Associate Professor of PolyU's Department of Electrical Engineering, a candidate who has passed the examination will still have to fulfill the electrical work experience required by Hong Kong's Electricity (Registration) Regulations in order to qualify as a registered Grade C electrical worker.
This year, PolyU is again joining hands with The University of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers, and the Government's Electrical and Mechanical Services Department in organizing the examination. 
'It is the Government's policy to encourage experienced workers in the field who do not hold a first degree to apply for formal qualification at the Grade C level,' Dr Lo said.
Grade C workers are licensed to handle electrical jobs of 'unlimited current', while those at Grade A or B levels deal with jobs of a smaller scale and with lower risks.  
Details of the examination syllabus are contained in a booklet Notes on Examination for Registration as a Grade C Electrical Worker which is available free of charge at the following locations:
The Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityDepartment of Electrical EngineeringRoom CF620, Hung Hom, Kowloon 
The University of Hong KongDepartment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Room 601, Chow Yei Ching Building Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong 
Electrical and Mechanical Services DepartmentCustomer Services OfficeGround Floor, 3 Kai Shing Street, Kowloon Bay, KowloonA Booklet of Sample Past Examination Questions is also available free of charge to candidates who are entering into the forthcoming examinations in November 2009. Candidates can obtain a free copy of Sample Questions when they submit their examination registration forms.
Enquiries: 2766 6189Website: http://www.emsd.gov.hk/emsd/eng/pps/gradec.shtml
 
