
[date]2009.05.25[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports[/title]
More than 200 delegates from 17 countries and territories are gathering at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from today (25 May) to 27 May to attend the Third International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports (IFSPA) 2009 organized by PolyU's Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies and C.Y. Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies. This year, the theme of the Conference is 'Post-Financial Tsunami: The Way Forward for Shipping, Transport and International Trade'.
The Conference was officially opened today (25 May) by Prof. Suleyman Demokan, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development); Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business, and Director of Graduate School of Business; Dr Tung Chee-Chen, Chairman, Steering Committee of C.Y. Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies; the Hon. Miriam Lau Kin-yee, Legislative Councillor; and Mr Roger Tupper, Director of Marine Department, HKSAR. At the ceremony, the three prominent local industry leaders also shared their perspectives on the transport and logistics sectors.
The event has provided a platform for international academics and industry practitioners to exchange views on the ways to cope with the challenges ahead as well as on academic-industry collaboration.
The themed Conference this year has an added significance given the severe impacts of financial tsunami on the industries. During the event scheduled with four Industrial Forum and Keynote Sessions as well as 16 Parallel Sessions, worldwide reputed scholars and industry leaders will be sharing with participants their insights on issues relevant to global maritime, transport and aviation policies and management in the face of the current economic downturn. 
As 'Dry Port' has become an important topic in the development agenda of Asia, a special session titled 'Dry Port Development in Asia and Other Regions: Theory and Practice' was held today (25 May) in collaboration with the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. Another special session titled 'Logistics and Supply Chain Modeling Research' will be held tomorrow (26 May) in collaboration with the Logistics Research Centre of PolyU's Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies. During this session, new logistics and supply chain modeling research findings will be presented.
For further information on the event, please visit its official website: http://www.lms.polyu.edu.hk/ifspa2009
