
[date]2009.02.03[/date]
[title]PolyU helps unleash student&amp;#39;s innovation and entrepreneurship potential[/title]
With an aim of developing student's innovation and entrepreneurship, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has organized the first Innovation and Entrepreneurship Student Challenge, a global business plan competition for secondary and university students. It brings together students from different parts of the world to share their knowledge, skills, creativity and talents. 
Divided into Secondary and University categories, the Challenge will invite students from Greater China, Asia Pacific Region, Europe and North America to participate. By the end of January, a total of 84 secondary schools and 93 universities worldwide have been registered for the Challenge. The participating teams are required to formulate and present their business plans, based on an innovative product or service idea. They can also consider using one of the following sub-themes for preparing their business proposals: Health and Wellness, Lifestyle, and Environment and Sustainability.
PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, 'The Challenge provides an excellent opportunity for students from different parts of the world to compete, interact and broaden their international horizon. Through the Challenge, we hope to unleash participants' innovative entrepreneurship and strengthen their communication skills.'
Finalist teams will be invited to attend the final competition to be held at PolyU in June. The judging panel, comprising of renowned entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and academics, will select the winners of Gold, Silver and Bronze Awards as well as the Theme Award for each Division. Each awardee will receive a cash prize, a trophy and a certificate. 
The judging of business plans are based on four criteria: innovation and creativity, technical soundness, organizational plan and management structure, and projection of financial performance. The participating teams will also be judged during their presentation performance by their effectiveness of delivery, time management and Q&amp;A session. 
For detailed information, please visit the official website at www.polyu.edu.hk/PolyUChallenge or contact PolyU International Affairs Office:
Telephone: (852) 2766 5105Email: oaGl0bal@polyu.edu.hk
Key Dates of the Challenge:
7 February
Training for Hong Kong Secondary School participants
31 March
Deadline for business proposal submission
30 April
Announcement of finalist teams
15 May
Deadline for business plan powerpoint submission
5-6 June 
Semi final and Final Competition at PolyU
7-8 June
Educational excursions in Hong Kong
