
[date]2009.08.07[/date]
[title]PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences organizes Mini-U Programme for secondary students[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) organized a Mini-U Programme for Secondary Six students from 22 to 31 July on the University campus. The students were from 15 Band One secondary schools and international schools.
Professor George Woo, Dean of FHSS, said the Faculty organized its first Mini-U Programme with an aim to help sixth formers explore the multi-facets of allied health and human services. Through a broad range of activities organized by FHSS's constituent departments and schools, students not only gained deeper understanding of various disciplines and professions, but also better insights on their planning for future studies and careers.
The students could choose to attend any introductory lectures on Biomedical Engineering, Medical Laboratory Science, Nursing, Mental Health Nursing, Optometry, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Radiography, Social Work, and Social Policy and Administration. The lectures gave participants an overview of these academic programmes, admission requirements and career prospects.
Other fun-filled activities included drama, role-play presentations and guided visits to the faculty's teaching and research facilities. Clinical and laboratory practices under the close supervision of faculty members were also arranged. The students said that the Programme, which was informative and lots of fun, could help them identify their future study path.
In addition, the students were given the opportunity to spend a night at PolyU's Halls of Residence to get a taste of university life. During the evening session, a talk on preparing for undergraduate studies and long term planning of career development was given by Dr Chui Yat-hung, a specialist in careers counselling and Lecturer of the Department of Applied Social Sciences. FHSS student ambassadors also shared their campus life experiences with the participants.
A High Table Dinner was held yesterday (6 August) for those Secondary Six students, joined by FHSS student ambassadors and faculty members. The dinner was graced by the presence of Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Dr Lily Chiu, former Cluster Chief Executive of Kowloon West Cluster, the Hospital Authority; and Dr Alman Chan, Principal of Christian Zheng Sheng College.
