
[date]2009.10.17[/date]
[title]PolyU President calls for support to advance innovation and technology[/title]
Speaking at the15th Congregation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong urged the community not to under-estimate the contributions or potential contributions from industrial development.  Industrial development is currently one of the pillars of the local economy and will be more so in the future. "Since my return to Hong Kong, I have been hearing many comments about the lack of industries here or the absence of prospects for those industries," said Prof. Tong, "This view might also hinder the future development of Hong Kong as a whole."
He added that cross-border and trans-national operations are the norm for many different types of business, including heavy industries.  Citing the examples of American aerospace company Boeing as an example, he urged the authorities concerned to fully capitalize on the strengths and opportunities created by the dynamics of a globalised world. Headquartered in Chicago, the American aerospace company has its major assembly plants near Seattle, but its research and development are conducted internationally with two offshore research centres in Europe and one each in India and Australia.
The University is also actively engaged in research and development that has such cross-border applications.  PolyU's researchers, for example, are currently developing lighter and stronger nano-structured materials for aircraft and automotive applications for Airbus in Europe and Baosteel Group Corporation, the largest steel producer on the Chinese mainland.
Another example of PolyU's research and development that has cross-border application is mycar, which is a fully electrically driven vehicle being produced in Dongguan.  Currently on sale in the UK and France, mycar will soon have a market presence in other European countries including Austria, Italy and Denmark. Following approval from the HKSAR Government, mycar will also be formally launched in the local market on 23 October. This example of cross-border collaboration is leading to a greener future while contributing to the economy of Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and other countries.
Prof. Tong opined that Hong Kong might practices cross-border operation together with Shenzhen in an innovative way. Given the interest expressed by our Government and the Shenzhen Municipal Government to jointly develop the Lok Ma Chau Loop, he sees an opportunity to establish a manufacturing base in that area'Because of the geographical location of the Loop, we can create a manufacturing base operated by a mix of skilled labour, technicians, designers and engineers from both sides of the border.  This joint industrial operation would enable both Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland to capture the enormous market opportunities promised by globalisation, thereby contributing to the economic development of both sides,' he said.
Prof. Tong is also pleased to note that the Government has been making vigorous effort to improve our education and nurture local talent, as well as to enhance Hong Kong's attractiveness to talents from all over the world.
"Hong Kong is thus in a very strong position to benefit from research and development, especially with the current trend cross-border and trans-national operations.
"The prosperity of our economy will be enhanced if we have new and promising industrial development.  PolyU has always been a faithful partner of local industries throughout the years.  We will continue to support their development through our research brain and muscles," said Prof. Tong.
In closing, Prof. Tong called upon PolyU graduates to become "practical dreamers", focusing on reality but looking beyond it.  He said, "They are ready for the challenges of the job market in our city and in the world.  They will be the best evidence that PolyU is part of Hong Kong's present prosperity and its future growth."
 
