
[date]2004.10.15[/date]
[title]PolyU honours six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the Chinese mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (15 October) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme 2004".
The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Yang Wenchang, Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC in the HKSAR, and Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Acting President.
The distinguished scholars are: Prof. An Zhisheng, Member of Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and Professor of Institute of Earth Environment of CAS; Prof. Wang Yingluo, Member of Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) and Professor of School of Management of Xi'an Jiaotong University; Prof. Jin Guofan, Member of CAE and Professor of Department of Precision Instruments of Tsinghua University; Prof. Yu Mengsun, Member of CAE and Professor of Air Force Institute of Aviation Medicine; Prof. Ma Zhiming, Member of CAS and Professor of Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science of CAS; Prof. Chen Kaixian, Member of CAS and Director of Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica of CAS.
During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, will present a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. They will also share their ideas and give advice to the departments concerned on various topics.
Prof. An Zhisheng is a world-renowned specialist in the field of Quaternary Geology. His contributions to China's Earth environment research have brought him many prizes, including the Second and Third Prize of the National Science Award, Li Siguang Geological Science Prize, He Liang He Li Foundation, and Lajos Loczy Medal from Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Currently, he is also Chairman of the Xi'an Branch of CAS and Shaanxi Provincial Academy of Sciences; Vice President of International Union for Quaternary Research; and Vice President of International Gesphere-Biospere Programme.
Prof. Wang Yingluo is an eminent specialist in the field of management science and industrial engineering. His achievements have won him national awards such as the Third Prize for Progress in Science and Technology and ten other prizes granted by the central and provincial governments. Currently, he is also Standing Board Member of International IE Society, International Editorial Member of Journal of Computer and Industrial Engineering based in the US, Chief of the Editorial Committee of Journal of Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management, and of the Editorial Committee of Journal of Industrial Engineering.
Prof. Jin Guofan, founder of optical information processing in China, is a well-known specialist in optical instruments. His achievements have won him national awards such as First Prize for Progress in Science and Technology, Award of Chinese Engineering Science and Technology. He has been elected as Fellow of Optical Society of America and the International Society of Optical Engineering. Currently, he is also Vice-President of the International Commission for Optics.
Prof. Yu Mengsun is a specialist and pioneer in aviation medicine engineering and biomedical engineering. He has been engaged in the studies of integration of biomedical engineering with aviation medicine for 40 years. His achievements have been listed in the history of China's medicine science for military purpose. He has been honoured with many national awards, such as the National Science Congress Prize, National First Prize for Progress in Science and Technology, the National Invention Prize and the Prize granted by He Liang He Li Foundation. Currently, he is also Vice-President of Chinese Society of Biomedical Engineering.
Prof. Ma Zhiming is a distinguished mathematician. He has made important contributions to the study of Dirichlet forms and Markov processes and other subjects such as the Schroediner equations, Feynman-Kac semi-groups, Charatheodory-Finsler manifolds and Nowhere Radon smooth measures. Prof. Ma has been awarded with the First Prize for Natural Sciences by CAS, Max-Planck Research Award by Max-Planck Society and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Chinese National Natural Sciences Prize, S. S. Chen Mathematics Prize, and He Liang He Li Award. Currently, he is also Chairman of the Graduate Degree Committee of the Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science of CAS.
Prof. Chen Kaixian is a distinguished specialist in medicinal chemistry and one of the leading scientists in China in the field of computer-aided drug discovery and design. His current research focuses on the large-scale molecular dynamics simulations of biological macromolecules and high-throughput virtual drug screening by using supercomputers. He has made significant contribution to the field of theoretical biology computation and drug design in China. His achievements have won him several awards, such as He Liang He Li Award and 863 Outstanding Contribution Prize. He was elected as one of the "Top Ten Talents in Science and Technology in Shanghai".  Currently, Prof. Chen is also Director of the Expert Committee of New Drug Research of CAS and Principle Investigator of the National Basic Research Priority Program (973 Program).
