
[date]2010.01.08[/date]
[title]PolyU Sa Sa Invitation Golf Tournament kicks off[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organise "Polyu Sa Sa Invitation Golf Tournament" on 22 January (Friday) in Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan to raise funds for the University.
Title sponsored by Sa Sa International Holdings Limited, more than 60 teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, PolyU alumni and friends have already signed up for the game.
Speaking at a press conference held today (8 January), Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) Designate, expressed her sincerest thanks to all parties involved for making the event possible. She said, "PolyU relies greatly on the support from our friends and partners in business and industries in realizing our vision for the well-being of the community and students' all-round development. This year, we are most privileged to have more than 20 business and industry trade associations in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland to be supporting organisations and to take part in the Tournament."
The Tournament is organised by a Committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Patrick Luk, Managing Director of Legend Jewelry. Other members of the Organising Committee included Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; and Mr Kenneth Ting Woo-shou, University Court member.
To add excitement to the game, the first golfer who is able to hit a hole-in-one will receive a fully electrically driven vehicle mycar sponsored by EuAuto Technology Limited. Moreover, the pioneer team awards "Trade Association Cup" and "Company Cup", and an individual award "Alumni Cup" will be introduced.
This event will also help to promote friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, apart from raising funds for the University. The net proceeds will be contributed towards the construction of the new student hostel in Homantin to cope with the increased number of exchange students and accommodation needs created by the new four-year undergraduate degree programme.
