
[date]2005.02.03[/date]
[title]PolyU to bestow University Fellowships on 13 individuals[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer University Fellowships upon 13 distinguished personalities at a special ceremony on 28 February. The conferment serves to mark the University's appreciation of individuals who have made significant contributions to PolyU and Hong Kong.
The designated University Fellows 2004/2005 are (in alphabetical order):
Mr Chan Tai-ho, a leading entrepreneur and founder of the listed company Playmates Toy Group; 
Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the HKSAR Government. He served as a member of the University Council from 1998 to 2004;
Mr Roy Chung Chi-ping, Co-founder and Managing Director of Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd. He joined the PolyU Council in 1999 and has been Deputy Chairman since 2002;
Mr Duan Yongji, Chairman of the STONE Group Corporation and Adjunct Professor of PolyU's Institute for Enterprise since 2003;
Dr Fong Yun-wah, a philanthropist and Chairman of the Hip Shing Hong Group of Companies and Kam Wah Investment Company Limited;
Mr Raman Hui Shing-ngai, a 1984 Higher Diploma graduate in Design of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic. He is the Supervising Animator of DreamWorks and key animator of the movies 'Antz' and 'Shrek'. He was awarded the Distinguished Design Alumni Award by PolyU's School of Design in 2004;
Sister Helen Marie Kenny, a nursing professional who has fervently promoted hospice care in Hong Kong;
Mr Lim Por-yen, a well-known industrialist. He is the Managing Director and founder of the Lai Sun Group;
Prof. Diana Mak Ping-see, former Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences of PolyU, who has contributed immensely to the development of the Department. She also served as a member of the University Grants Committee from 1993 to 2000;
Mr Ng Wai-hung, Chairman of SAE Magnetics (H.K.) Ltd. and a recipient of the 2005 Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award;
Mr Ng Wing-hong, a longstanding supporter of PolyU, a 1939 Building graduate of the Hong Kong Government Trade School (predecessor of PolyU) and also its first graduates;
Dr Tin Ka-ping, a respected industrialist and founder of K.P. Tin Foundation Limited. He is an ardent supporter of education and other charitable causes;
Mrs Pauline Tsang, a 1958 graduate of the Hong Kong Technical College (predecessor of PolyU). She has played a key role in the establishment of PolyU (Eastern Canada) Association in Toronto. 
The fellowships will be conferred by Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, PolyU Council Chairman and the ceremony will be held in the Jockey Club Auditorium on the University campus. Since 2000, PolyU has conferred University Fellowships on a total of 20 individuals.
