
[date]2010.01.13[/date]
[title]PolyU experts help Hong Kong Judoists prepare for the 16th Asian Games[/title]
Following the successful collaboration in the Hong Kong 2009 East Asian Games (EAG), The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (13 January) announced an extension of collaboration between Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) and the Judo Association of Hong Kong, China by providing comprehensive sport-specific assessment and conditioning programmes to the Judoists in preparation for the 16th Asian Games to be held in Guangzhou in November 2010.
The Sports Commission of Home Affairs Bureau has earlier provided an additional funding over the next three years for Judo as an up-and-coming sport for development. During the EAG, FHSS's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) sent forth a team of professional experts led by Dr Amy Fu, Assistant Professor of RS, to help equip the Hong Kong Judoists to clinch one gold and one bronze medals in the Hong Kong 2009 East Asian Games. At the invitation of the Judo Association of Hong Kong, China, RS and the School of Optometry (SO) will help to identify elite athlete as well as assist the athletes in preparation for the 16th Asian Games.
In the coming months, RS physiotherapy team will conduct a series of scientific and sport-specific assessments and come up with a personalized conditioning programme for each Judo athlete representing Hong Kong. Each athlete will be closely monitored on their body condition and immediate injury management and rehabilitation will be implemented in order to help them to reach their optimal performance at the Asian Games. In addition, SO optometrists will provide sports vision assessment for the Judoists under the collaboration.
Speaking at the occasion, Professor George Woo, Dean of FHSS, congratulated the Hong Kong Judoists on their performances at the Hong Kong 2009 East Asian Games. "FHSS is proud to offer our physiotherapy expertise to the Hong Kong Judoists and is grateful for their trust in us. With the support of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre, the upcoming collaboration between FHSS and the Judo Association will further enhance their sports performance and avoid injury, involving not only physiotherapy but also sports vision assessment. It is a comprehensive programme tailor-made for our Judo athletes and we hope to help them to continue the legend in the upcoming Asian Games."
Mr Wong Po Kee, Chairman of the Judo Association of Hong Kong, China, said, "It is our great honour to have PolyU to be our close partner in preparation for the Asian Games. Our Association and athletes are grateful to the assistance and advice from the physiotherapy experts who helped us win medals in the last Games. We look forward to achieving even more encouraging results in the upcoming Games."
The announcement is followed by a demonstration of the assessments that will be involved in assisting the Judo athletes, including Cybex evaluation of shoulder strength, flexibility and stretching tests and core stability test. Dr Amy Fu explained, "Judo requires athletes to react fast and demands power and endurance in muscular strength. The assessment results will enable us better understand the needs of each athlete and then design personalized training and injury prevention programme for them."
The University has a wealth of experience in serving professional athletes. Its FHSS has sent forth its experts in a board range of disciplines including nursing, rehabilitation sciences, optometry, health technology, and sports therapy to help athletes prepare for major competitions.
