
[date]2009.10.25[/date]
[title]PolyU MBA Graduates Sign Harvard Business School Student-Inspired MBA Oath [/title]
Over 150 MBA alumni and new graduates from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University has recently signed The MBA Oath during the 2009 graduation dinner, of which 5 representatives declaimed the Oath on stage. According to initiators of the Oath, they are technically the second group after Harvard Business School graduates to collectively make the pledge and officially sign it.  The Oath is a voluntary pledge initiated by a group of Harvard MBA students in May this year for graduating MBAs and current MBAs to "create value responsibly and ethically." After getting about half of this year's graduates signing up, they look forward to MBAs from around the world joining the move. The number of signers has already exceeded 1,600. "This year, we have another 279 MBA graduates in Hong Kong and on the Chinese Mainland," said Professor Judy Tsui, Associate Vice President of PolyU, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Director of the Graduate School of Business (GSB). "We keep reminding our graduates of responsibilities to all stakeholders and the environment as they grow more knowledgeable and influential at their work. We are delighted to see our MBAs' initiative in holding hands with their overseas elite MBA peers to preserve and promote business ethics on a global basis." She commented. MBA Programme Director Professor Howard Davies has high hopes of a wide and deep penetration into the local business community with the sign-up. "PolyU MBA programmes include a balanced mix of general management education and specific training in Fashion Business, Financial Services, IT Management and Innovation and Design Management. With this diversity and relevance to the major industries, rollout of ideas like the MBA Oath could be very effective." He said. Winnie Chan, Assistant Vice President of HSBC Private Banking is a 2009 graduate. "As management, we should embrace the people working for you. We should learn how to value human assets in a corporation and build up the commitment and loyalty from them," she said. "In a more and more challenging business environment, even the most experienced and senior executives would face difficult situation in reconciling interests of different constituencies. Taking the MBA Oath is not just a matter of current MBA students and graduates. It is also a useful guideline for our daily decision making process," said Alan Chui, President of the PolyU MBA Alumni Association. "The Association has been working closely with graduating MBAs to take part in the movement and is now working on a Chinese version for the China MBAs on the mainland. The pledge, when put into practice, would help foster a more ethical and sustainable business environment in the region." PolyU MBA first launched in 1990 is the first such programme in Hong Kong and Mainland China accredited by the UK-based AMBA (Association of MBAs). The China MBA programme is offered in collaboration with Xi'an Jiaotong University.  GSB has set up "One MBA" to unify the MBA programme currently offered in Hong Kong with the MBA programme offered in Shenzhen and Xi'an.  Expertise and resources of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Xi'an Jiaotong University are being pooled to provide students with a comprehensive development experience. They will have the same curriculum and learn in a fully interactive environment.  Visiting students from overseas MBA programmes will join them for the exchange of knowledge and views. The HK PolyU MBA Alumni Associationaamba@polyu.edu.hk Graduate School of Businesswww.polyu.edu.hk/gsb   
