
[date]2005.02.17[/date]
[title]HKCyberU launches Hong Kong's first Preparatory Course for HKCEE English featured with 24 hour online oral classroom[/title]
Hong Kong CyberU (HKCyberU), the online education arm of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), yesterday (17 February) introduced a new Preparatory Course for HKCEE English which is the first of its kind in Hong Kong to be featured with 24 hours online oral classroom.
Jointly launched with the world's largest online language school, Englishtown, the Course is developed by English lecturers of the Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) of PolyU, with reference to the past HKCEE exam papers and local secondary school curriculum.
Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of the College of Professional and Continuing Education, PolyU, said the new programme was made possible with HKCyberU's well-developed online learning platform and the professional teaching of the lecturers of HKCC.
"Since the launch of HKCyberU in 2000, more and more adult learners have made use of the technology to pursue further study online. HKCyberU is pleased to extend its network and to recruit more learners from the Secondary School sector," said Prof. Wong.
Consisting of two main parts, the Preparatory Course aims to train up students' reading and writing skills through face-to-face tutorials conducted by HKCC lecturers, supplemented by HKCyberU's online course materials, as well as students' speaking and listening skills via Englishtown's online learning platform.
The reading and writing course has a total of eight units, each focusing on a common topic in Hong Kong including entertainment, art, education, mass media, food and health, travel and tourism, environment and technologies. To better prepare the students for the HKCEE, each unit features a mock-up exam paper made up of three sections - reading comprehension, grammar and vocabulary, and writing ' similar to the public examination.
For the oral and listening part, students will have access to Englishtown's interactive learning tools and its unique 24 hour online oral classroom which allows Hong Kong students to interact real time with teachers and learners in other parts of the world via the Internet. By integrating face-to-face tutorials with online learning, the Preparatory Course provides a truly flexible, practical and comprehensive learning channel for the HKCEE students.
Tuition fee for the Preparatory Course is HK$2,000 or a special offer of HK$1,600 for payment made in one installment. Classes are scheduled to commence in March and will last from eight to 16 weeks. So far, more than 400 Secondary four and five students of Our Lady's College have registered to become the first group of online learners. For registration or more information, please visit HKCyberU website at www.hkcyberu.com.
