
[date]2010.01.13[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Business Achieves Triple Accreditation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has gained AACSB International accreditation for its business school. The award was announced on 8 January 2010 by The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) headquartered in the U.S.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, said, "It is truly a great honour for PolyU to join the AACSB community of internationally accredited business schools. This recognition has once again testified to our continued dedication to high quality business education, research and consultancy services."
Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Director of the Graduate School of Business said, "We are very honoured to be awarded the AACSB International accreditation. This is another official recognition of our excellent education and favourable learning environment. Considerable progress in the aspects of internationalization, research and development has earned us international accreditations these few years. The Faculty is now triple accredited."
In 2007, the PolyU Faculty of Business (FB) won the EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) accreditation which signified that the Faculty had achieved a balance between high academic quality and professional relevance provided by close interaction with the corporate world.
In 2006, PolyU DBA (Doctor of Business Administration) programme in Hong Kong and DMgt (Doctor of Management) programme on the Chinese Mainland were accredited by the UK-based AMBA (Association of MBAs). The university's MBA (Master of Business Administration) programmes and EMBA (Executive MBA) programmes in Hong Kong and the Mainland were accredited by AMBA in 2005.
The Faculty of Business is ranked 66th in the world and the third in Asia according to the latest UTD Top 100 Business School Research Rankings based on research contributions in the 2004-2008 period. This ranking, provided by The University of Texas at Dallas, is based on the number of research publications by academic staff in 24 leading journals, representing the top three to four in every business discipline.
Regarding finance and economics research, PolyU's Faculty of Business is ranked 42nd in the world by a study published in the Journal of Financial Economics in September 2009. The rankings are based on the average research rankings provided by 11 previous studies over the period 1970-2001. The research productivity is based on 36 economics journals and the top five of the finance journals used by the earlier ranking studies. PolyU is the only university in Asia and Australia to make the cut in the ranking of the top 50 universities in the world.
AACSB International, founded in 1916, is a membership association of close to 1,200 educational institutions, businesses and other organizations in 74 countries and territories. It is also an accreditation body for institutions offering undergraduate, master's and doctorate degrees in business and accounting. Its global headquarters is located in Florida in the US and its Asia headquarters is located in Singapore. Up till the present, less than 5% of the business schools worldwide have gained the AACSB International accreditation.
"We warmly congratulate the Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and welcome it into the AACSB family of internationally accredited business schools," said John J. Fernandes, President and Chief Executive Officer of AACSB International. "AACSB accreditation represents the highest achievement for an educational institution and its college of business. The Dean, faculty and administrative staff of PolyU FB are to be commended for their dedication and commitment to continuous improvement, and for their role in earning initial accreditation."
