
[date]2005.01.07[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme Forum 2005[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (7 January) held a forum themed 'Partnering for Excellence' which acknowledged the important support from its partner companies which have offered local, mainland and overseas placement opportunities to PolyU students through its 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme.
At the invitation of PolyU, Mr Fred Lam Tin-fuk, Executive Director of Hong Kong Trade Development Council and two internationally renowned consultants, Mr Robert Nichols and Mr Paul Rau from the World Association for Cooperative Education, spoke to the students. They explained how different parties can benefit the most from a meaningful partnership, with special focus on the employers' interest. Insights on the development of internship and best practices were also shared by them.
Addressing the Forum, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said: "With the advent of globalization and knowledge-based economy as well as the signing of CEPA, our students will be facing stronger competition at home and abroad. PGDP provides our students the opportunity to gain practical experience in the work environment to enhance their adaptability, problem solving and communication skills. Such experience will definitely enhance our students' competitiveness, making them ‘preferred graduates' in the eyes of employers."
Launched in 1997, PGDP aims to enhance students' market value by providing them on-job working experience before graduation. With the support over 750 partner companies and supporting organizations from the Chinese mainland, other Asian countries, North America, Europe and Australia, near 4,900 students have benefited from the Programme. Over the years, the Programme has won high acclaim from both students and partner companies.
The PolyU interns come from a wide range of academic disciplines, from accountancy to civil engineering, design, textiles and clothing, hotel and tourism management, nursing and optometry. They are sent to work in various local and overseas enterprises and multinational companies.
