
[date]2009.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Fifth International Conference on Brand Management To Explore Brand Driven Innovation[/title]
The Fifth International Conference on Brand Management held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre has drawn 500 participants from academia and the business sector. The event, jointly organized by the Asian Centre for Brand Management (ACBM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Design Centre (HKDC), is a major part of HKDC's Business of Design Week.
Those officiating at the opening ceremony today (1 December) included Mr Duncan W. Pescod, Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development (Communications and Technology) of the HKSAR Government and Prof. Thomas K.S. Wong, PolyU Vice President (Management) and Chair Professor of Nursing.
Mr Pescod said, "I was delighted to read recently that the University has been recognized as having one of the best international campuses and policies in the world at the Fifth Quacquarelli Symonds - Apple international Higher Education Conference. The PolyU was cited for giving students a holistic and professionally oriented education. The Conference today is a wonderful example of this."
Prof. Wong said, "This annual Conference provides the opportunity for brand experts from around the world to exchange ideas and to discuss the latest developments in Brand Management. I am sure the Conference will bring inspiration to the participants and will further enhance the international standing of Hong Kong in the field of Brand Management."
Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Director of the Graduate School of Business said, "Everybody from the customer through the director, the designer, the marketing manager to the salesperson is becoming more concerned about branding. Nowadays, brand experience is crucial since your reputation can be built up or ruined within very short time through the social media."
"This year we focus on branding and innovation, how branding demands constant innovation and how innovation enlivens and adds value to your brand. There are also speakers from various industries sharing with us their success stories in the Chinese mainland market which is quite different from that of Hong Kong," She added.
This event is themed Brand Driven Innovation: Design, Management and Value. Scholars and experts who delivered keynote presentations and joined the discussions included Prof. David J. Reibstein from The Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, Ms Eva Yu from L'Oreal Hong Kong Limited, Ms Kathy Chan from Bossini International Holdings Limited, Mr Vincent Wong from IBM China/Hong Kong Limited, Mr Chong Got from Premium Motors Limited ' Audi, Mr Wang Ziliang from Geely Holding Group, Mr Dirk Dalichau from Miramar International Hotel Management Corporation S.A., and Ms Poon Wai from Ajisen (China) Holdings Limited.
The Dialogue with Executives session featured challenges and recommendations in relation to brand management in Chinese mainland. Dr Wang Zhigang of Hisense (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd., Mr Harry Yeung of LKK Health Products Group Ltd., Mr David Au of LiFung Trinity (Management) Limited and Mr Chan Sai-cheong of Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Co. Ltd. shared the experiences of their companies.
ACBM was established in 2005 by PolyU's Faculty of Business. It conducts applied research on branding issues for improving business performance. As a regional centre for branding and retail studies, the Centre focuses on creating and enhancing brand value. It also organizes research projects on the management of brands as market-based assets.
HKDC is a non-profit making organization established in 2001 by the Hong Kong Federation of Design Associations. It is dedicated to helping local designers and businesses to realize their full potential. Its mission is to use design and innovation to drive value creation and improve the well-being of society. Its vision is to establish Hong Kong as a centre of design excellence in Asia.
For further information on the conference, please visit http://www.fb.polyu.edu.hk/bc2009/.
 
