
[date]2009.10.09[/date]
[title]Top Minds to Reflect on Humanities at PolyU Forum[/title]
Three Deans of Humanities/Arts from local universities would gather at a forum entitled 'Reflections on Humanities: In a technology-centred, knowledge-intensive, and highly commercialized society'. This event is organized by The Faculty of Humanities (FH) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and will be held on 16 October on PolyU campus.
The speakers are two newly appointed Deans of Humanities/Arts. They are Prof. James Lee, Dean of Humanities and Social Science and Chair Professor of Social Science of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (UST); and Prof. Hsiung Ping-chen, Dean of Faculty of Arts and Professor of History of the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). The forum will be chaired by Prof. Huang Chu-ren, Dean of FH of PolyU. 
Prof. Huang, who initiated the forum, said, 'As the youngest faculty of Humanities in Hong Kong, FH of PolyU is keenly aware of the challenges humanities are facing in our modern society. When we look into the future and see a technology-centred, knowledge-intensive, and highly commercialized society; it is easy for us to overlook possible roles played by Humanities in it. Humanities are more than arts and letters. The essence of Humanities is human beings' reflection on who are we, on what is our position in the society, and how do we interact with the world. Humanities in this sense need to evolve with the changes of the world. The main purpose of this forum is to focus on the true nature of humanities and look forward and define the role Humanities may play in a technology-centred, knowledge-intensive, and highly commercialized society.' 
The forum is also part of the PolyU Humanities Lecture Series organised by FH to commemorate its first anniversary. It aims at creating synergy among different Faculties of Humanities in Hong Kong, restoring a renewed sense of future for students of Humanities.
The forum is open to members of the public. For registration details, please visit the event website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/FH/ROH. 
