
[date]2005.01.20[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces the world's first soft mannequin and Asia's first BA in Intimate Apparel programme[/title]
Making use of the 3D scanned data of live model and structure of human skeleton, researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have recently developed the world's first soft mannequin. The invention simulates the touch of human skin and equips with a pair of detachable and changeable soft breasts, making a major breakthrough in the lady underwear industry.
Under the leadership of Dr Winnie Yu, Associate Professor of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), the soft mannequin was developed by a five-person research team. Apart from using it for the fitting, demonstration and comfort test for bras, panties or girdles, the mannequin can also be used in the evaluation of medical pressure garments or training of intimate apparel for male learners.
"The soft mannequin has immense commercial and academic value," said Dr Yu.  "In view of the high cost of live model and stiffness of conventional dress dummies, the soft mannequin is made to the accurate size and shape. It is cost effective, multiple-use and able to provide objective and reliable data with its thin-film pressure sensors situated between the undergarment and mannequin."
Comparable to a live female model, the mannequin is made of a full size artificial skeleton comprising a spine, rib cage, pelvis and thigh bones. Its outer shell is made from polyurethane foam which simulates the resilience of human body. A stretch fabric was then applied on the cover to simulate human skin. A unique feature of the mannequin is its silicon-filled breasts which can be changed to different sizes for demonstration and fitting purposes. The invention has been filed patent in the US.
The development of the soft mannequin is one of the many ongoing initiatives made by the University in upgrading the professionalism and advancement of the intimate apparel industry.
Starting this September, PolyU will offer Hong Kong and Asia Pacific's first BA programme in Intimate Apparel. By providing a selection of subjects on the design, operation and production of intimate apparel, the programme offers professional training to the newcomers and practitioners of the industry and stimulates research activities.
The self-financed programme will be offered via the ACE Style Institute of Intimate Apparel operated under the aegis of ITC. With the generous support of the ACE Style Intimate Apparel Limited, the Institute was established last August. Occupying an area of 120 square meters, the Institute provides teaching and learning area, computer-aided-design systems and research equipment for intimate apparel study.
