
[date]2009.11.26[/date]
[title]Ms Marjorie Yang to succeed Mr Victor Lo as PolyU Council Chairman[/title]
The Chief Executive Mr Donald Tsang, in his capacity as Chancellor of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), today (26 November) announced the appointment of Executive Councillor Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak as PolyU Council Chairman with effect from 1 January 2010.
Ms Yang is Chairman of the Esquel Group. She holds a BSc degree in Mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an MBA from the Harvard Business School. Ms Yang is actively engaged in public and community service. Apart from serving on the Executive Council, she is also a Member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference; Chairman of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council's HK-US Business Council; and a Member of the Greater Pearl River Delta Business Council.
She is particularly concerned with the development of higher education and has been selflessly contributing her advice for many leading universities, including serving as Member of the Harvard Business School Board of Dean's Advisors and its Asia Advisory Committee; Member of MIT Corporation; Honorary Court Member of The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; and Member of International Advisory Board of Tsinghua School of Economics and Management, Tsinghua University.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong welcomes the appointment at this important juncture of the development of tertiary education. He is pleased that the University has been privileged to enjoy continuous support from leading industrialists over the years ever since the appointment of Sir S Y Chung as the first Council Chairman.
"Their wise counsel, vision and unremitting efforts have helped build a solid foundation for our University and contributed to making PolyU what it is today. I am sure PolyU will scale new heights under the leadership of Ms Yang," said Prof. Tong.
Prof. Tong also thanked the outgoing Chairman Mr Victor Lo for his enormous contribution to the further advancement of PolyU during his six years' term of service. With Mr Lo at the helm of PolyU Council, the University has made great strides on various fronts and is now listed among the top 200 universities in the world, according to the "Times Higher Education-QS World University Ranking 2009" of the Times Higher Education Supplement.
 
