
[date]2009.09.16[/date]
[title]PolyU and RVC jointly launch HK’s first-ever Veterinary Nursing Degree[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) of the University of London are introducing a unique veterinary nursing degree programme to Hong Kong. This new Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Veterinary Nursing programme will admit the first intake of students in September 2010, and PolyU will begin accepting online applications later this year. 
Dr. Mayur Danny l. Gohel, Associate Dean of FHSS and Co-Programme Leader of the new course, Prof. Colin Howard, Vice-Principal (Strategic Development) of RVC, and Dr. Jane Gray, Deputy Director (Veterinary Services) and Chief Veterinary Surgeon of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Hong Kong) and Adjunct Assistant Professor of PolyU, announced details of the programme at a press conference today (16 September) at PolyU.
PolyU and RVC are introducing the new degree programme to address the shortage of professional veterinary nurses in the cosmopolitan city where the boom in demand for veterinary services has driven demand for trained manpower in the profession. Dr. Gohel said, 'We are very proud to work with the Royal Veterinary College on the degree programme and on other activities to advance veterinary nursing in Hong Kong.' RVC is the largest, oldest, and only independent veterinary school in the UK, while PolyU is one of Hong Kong's major providers of professional education in health and applied social sciences, including many health disciplines that are unique in Hong Kong. Veterinary nursing will be among them.
PolyU and RVC hope that the new degree programme will bring about an improvement and standardisation in the quality and provision of veterinary nursing and meet the shortfall of veterinary nurses in the territory. In the long run, both institutions hope that the programme will also serve to acquaint Hong Kong people with the concept of professional veterinary nursing, which in other countries is a registered profession.
The degree programme, which will be taught by RVC and PolyU staff, will cover subjects that will give students a sound grounding in theories, clinical skills and practices essential to veterinary nursing. Its practicum will consist of on-site clinical training and clinical placements in Hong Kong, enabling students to gain precious hands-on experience of and insights into the tasks and duties expected of a professional veterinary nurse. Prof. Colin Howard of RVC said that depending on the subjects taken, students who wish to expand their career options could also apply to transfer credits for admission into RVC's courses in London.
Graduates of the new degree programme are expected to enjoy a wide range of career options, including employment in veterinary clinics and other animal health and welfare settings, and be able to pursue a career in many areas of veterinary work, including as a head nurse, practice manager, or nursing educator. They may also work in the fields of specialist nursing, or animal welfare and rehabilitation.  Graduates would need to apply directly to the statutory bodies of different countries for registration.
Although the provision of veterinary services has grown in Hong Kong in recent years, Dr. Jane Gray noted that there is still a lack of public awareness and recognition of the vital role veterinary nurses play in animal care and welfare, and hoped that the new degree programme would help to change this. 
Under their agreement for collaboration, PolyU and RVC will be organising academic exchange events such as seminars, workshops and visits. The two institutions will also arrange reciprocal student exchange programmes to enable their students to learn about different veterinary clinical practices and research in Hong Kong and the UK.
Last year, PolyU and RVC jointly launched Hong Kong's first-ever tertiary education course in veterinary nursing. Their one-year Foundation Studies in Veterinary Nursing attracted many people who wanted to undergo an introduction to veterinary nursing, including pet owners and people working in veterinary-related sectors. The two stand-alone subjects of the course were heavily oversubscribed and received extremely positive reviews from students.
Forthcoming Info Seminars on BSc(Hons) in Veterinary NursingThere will be two on-campus information seminars about the BSc(Hons) in Veterinary Nursing programme during the PolyU Education Info Day 2009 (26 September 2009) in Room HJ305 from 12:00 to 12:45 p.m. and from 4:00 to 4:45 p.m. Interested parties can register online to attend a session and find information about the programme at fhss.polyu.edu.hk/vn. Details of the application period will also be posted on the website in due course.
BSc(Hons) in Veterinary Nursing

Mode of Study
Full-time
Normal Duration
4 years
Fund Type
Self-financed
Intake Number
39
Medium of Instruction
English
Credits Required for Graduation
130
Cost for Each Credit
HK$2,100
Total Tuition Fee
HK$273,000
Website
fhss.polyu.edu.hk/vn
Enquiries 
2766 5075 / 2766 5077
fhss.email@polyu.edu.hk
~End~
 
