
[date]2005.02.28[/date]
[title]PolyU confers University Fellowships on 13 outstanding individuals[/title]
The

Hong Kong

Polytechnic

University

(PolyU) conferred the title of University Fellowships upon 13 distinguished personalities at a ceremony yesterday (28 February) to record the University's appreciation and recognition of their significant contributions to PolyU and the community.
Presided over by Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, Chairman of the University Council, the Ceremony was held on PolyU campus for the first time. This year's University Fellows are as follows (in alphabetical order):
Mr Chan Tai-ho, a leading entrepreneur and founder of the listed company Playmates Toy Group; 
Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food of the HKSAR Government. He served as a member of the University Council from 1998 to 2004; 
Mr Roy Chung Chi-ping, Co-founder and Managing Director of Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd. He joined the PolyU Council in 1999 and has been Deputy Chairman since 2002; 
Mr Duan Yongji, Chairman of the STONE Group Corporation and Adjunct Professor of PolyU's Institute for 
Enterprise
since 2003 (Fellowship conferred in absentia); 
Dr Fong Yun-wah, a philanthropist and Chairman of the Hip Shing Hong Group of Companies and Kam Wah Investment Company Limited; 
Mr Raman Hui Shing-ngai, a 1984 Higher Diploma graduate in Design of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic. He is Supervising Animator of DreamWorks and key animator of the movies Antz and Shrek. He was awarded the Distinguished Design Alumni Award by PolyU's School of Design in 2004 (Fellowship conferred in absentia);  Sister Helen Marie Kenny, a nursing professional who has fervently promoted hospice care in Hong Kong; 
The Late Mr Lim Por-yen, a well-known industrialist. He was the Managing Director and founder of the Lai Sun Group (Fellowship conferred posthumously); 
Prof. Diana Mak Ping-see, former Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences of PolyU, who has contributed immensely to the development of the Department. She also served as a member of the University Grants Committee from 1993 to 2000; 
Mr Ng Wai-hung, Chairman of SAE Magnetics (H.K.) Ltd. and a recipient of the 2005 Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award; 
Mr Ng Wing-hong, a 1939 Building graduate of the Hong Kong Government Trade School (predecessor of PolyU) and also one of its first graduates. He is a longstanding supporter of PolyU; 
Dr Tin Ka-ping, a respected industrialist and founder of K.P. Tin Foundation Limited. He is an ardent supporter of education and other charitable causes; 
Mrs Pauline Tsang, a 1958 graduate of the

Hong Kong

Technical

College

(predecessor of PolyU). She has played a key role in the establishment of PolyU (
Eastern Canada
) Association in 
Toronto
. 
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Lo said, 'Sharing PolyU's vision and a common concern for the grooming of talents to serve the community, the Fellows have rendered strong support to our University in different capacities.'
He also paid special tribute to the late Mr Lim Por-yen who passed away earlier this month.
Since its introduction in 2000, PolyU has conferred University Fellowships on a total of 20 individuals.
