
[date]2009.12.03[/date]
[title]PolyU presents Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards[/title]
A total of fifteen winners of the 2009 Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards have been presented with the coveted prizes by Dr Rita Fan, Member of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress; and Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) at a gala dinner today (3 December).
Organized by PolyU for the sixth time, this activity aims to give public recognition to outstanding entrepreneurs from the private sector in the Chinese mainland. It also provides a valuable opportunity for entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and the mainland to exchange their experiences and explore further business opportunities.
This year, the awardees' scope of businesses covers educational services, automobiles, home appliances, agriculture, manufacturing, printing, energy, environment, new materials, etc. Among them, two are helmsmen of US-listed mainland enterprises. (Please refer to the Appendix for the full list of awardees).
Prof. Tong said the long-standing award scheme has testified to the growing influence of the private sector on the mainland. He also expressed his sincerest thanks to the industry associations and mainland partners involved in co-organizing this event.
Under the award scheme, the portfolio of each candidate is assessed objectively by a nine-member Selection Committee comprising prominent community leaders and distinguished entrepreneurs from the mainland and Hong Kong. All awardees are remarkable leaders who have made significant contributions to business and industry.
This year Prof. Lu Yongxiang, Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, is serving as Honorary President of the scheme. Other Members of the Presidium include Mr Xie Jingrong, Vice Chairman of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce; Mr Duan Yongji, Executive Chairman of the Board of China Non-Governmental Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association; Mr Preston Chen, Executive Chairman of the Federation of Industries (Taiwan); Mr Cliff Sun, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Mr Paul Yin, President of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Mr Jonathan Choi, Chairman of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce; Mr Andrew Brandler, Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce; Mr Wang Shuifu, Executive Chairman of the Board of Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association; and PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong. Serving as Co-Chairmen of the Organizing Committee are Dr Henry Tseng Chee, Mr Jonathan Choi and Dr Lui Sun-wing.
Since its launch in 1997, the Bauhinia Cup Awards scheme has honoured some 117 outstanding entrepreneurs from the Chinese mainland. Among the distinguished awardees are Mr Liu Yonghao, Chairman of the New Hope Group; Dr Lu Guanqui, Chairman of the Board of Wanxiang Group; and Mr Wang Chuanfu, Chairman of BYD Auto.
This major event is also supported by major business organizations in both Hong Kong and the mainland. Co-organizers include the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce, China Association for International Exchange of Personnel, China Non-Government Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association, Federation of Industries (Taiwan), Federation of Hong Kong Industries, The Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association.
The recipients of this award are invited to join the Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Association, which was established in 2002 with an aim to serve as a network for entrepreneurs and help promote the continuous economic development of the country.
 
