
[date]2005.05.24[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2005/06 full-time degree and sub-degree programmes on campus on Saturday, 28 May.
The Consultation Day provides an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) applicants to obtain in-depth information on PolyU programmes. Applicants are allowed to add new choices and reprioritize old choices before the deadline of 31 May 2005. This Consultation Day will help them make the final decision on their programme choices before the JUPAS deadline.
This year, The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, will also join the Consultation Day with an aim to provide first hand information on Associate Degree programmes to prospective current HKALE applicants.
Participants can obtain information on PolyU programmes, admission requirements and career prospects in consultation sessions, seminars, presentations and guided visits during the Consultation Day before making a final decision on their choices. The event will also be a golden opportunity for participants to obtain advice from academic staff and current students. Careers teachers are also recommended to participate in this event to get the first hand information of the programmes.
PolyU is well-known for its application-oriented programmes which are of internationally recognized standards. It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from higher diploma and bachelor's degree to master's and doctoral degrees. Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textile Studies, Geomatics, International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Medical Laboratory Science, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy and Radiography.
In the 2005/06 academic year, the University will offer 68 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE entry, of which 42 are at degree and 26 at sub-degree levels.
To support the all-round development of secondary students, PolyU will continue to implement the "JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations" and "Non-academic Achievements Self-recommendation Scheme" in this year's admission exercise. The University will offer a number of scholarships to admittees with outstanding non-academic achievements or HKALE attainments.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the University website: http://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday/.
Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the event. Details are as follows:
Date: 28 May 2005 (Saturday) (To be postponed to 4 June in case of bad weather)Time: 1.00 p.m. - 6.00 p.m.Venue: PolyU Campus
