
[date]2009.11.30[/date]
[title]PolyU names Centre for Sports Rehabilitation after Dr and Mrs Chan Sui-kau[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) named its Centre for Sports Rehabilitation in Guangzhou after philanthropists Dr and Mrs Chan Sui-Kau in appreciation of their benevolence and tremendous support for the University.
The Centre was opened on 26 November by Dr Chan Sui-kau, his sons Mr Chan Wing-cheong and Mr Chan Wing-ming, Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, Prof. George Woo, Dean of Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, Prof. Chetwyn Chan, Head of Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Prof. Li Jie, Vice President of Guangdong Sports Institute and Prof. Huang Dong Feng, Head of Rehabilitation Department, Sun Yat Sen University.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Tong expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Dr and Mrs Chan and said, "PolyU is privileged to have received such staunch support from Dr and Mrs Chan, who have made possible the establishment of the Centre for Sports Rehabilitation. This benefaction will support the provision of innovative rehabilitation services for athletes in Hong Kong as well as national athletes on the Chinese mainland."
Dr Chan Sui-kau is a prominent philanthropist and founder of Yangtzekiang Garment Ltd. and the YGM Group. Dr Chan and his family have a long affiliation with the University and Dr Chan was also a founding Member of PolyU Court. In 2002, PolyU named a building on campus after his brother the late Mr Chan Sui-wai in recognition of the generous donation of $15 million from the Chan's Family Charity Trust to support the University's future development.
A leading industrialist in the textile and apparel industry, Dr Chan was elected President of the Federation of Hong Kong Garment Manufacturers in 1977 and he is currently its Life Honorary President. He also helped found the Textile Council of Hong Kong in 1988, serving as its first Chairman and he remains its Honorary Chairman today. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1983, awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2002 and in 2008 he was awarded HKSAR's highest honour - the Great Bauhinia Medal. He holds Honorary Doctorates from the University, the City University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. 
The Chan Sui Kau and Chan Lam Moon Chun Centre for Sports Rehabilitation is a service and training hub for extending the spirit of the Beijing Olympics and sustaining the competitiveness of top-notch athletes in the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong. 
In addition, the Centre will conduct research projects that are beneficial to the long term development of the rehabilitation services for the well-being of the community.
