
[date]2009.10.21[/date]
[title]PolyU seeks to achieve further internationalization[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (21 October) launched an International Tea Reception for more than 200 international students of the university to meet with Consuls-General and senior representatives of overseas organizations and trade bodies in Hong Kong. This event is organized by the University's International Affairs Office to heighten commitment to internationalization by bringing together the international community of PolyU and facilitate networking with the wider international community in the territory.
Addressing the Reception, PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong shared with the audience that PolyU has made a great leap forward in the "Times Higher Education-QS World University Ranking 2009" of the Times Higher Education Supplement. The University has moved up from the 224th place in 2008 to the 195th place in 2009 in the league table, and is now listed among the top 200 universities in the world.
He added that PolyU would be well poised to attract more and more international students with the completion of a second student hostel by 2012. The construction of the new hostel in Homantin is expected to provide additional 1,650 places for PolyU students.
The University is admitting more international students in recent years. The latest cohort of international freshmen came from 13 countries spreading across five continents, including Canada, Indonesia, Israel, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Ukraine and Venezuela. 
PolyU also hailed the recent establishment of the International Students Association (ISA) by the expanding community of overseas students. ISA President Mr Jossue Rodarte, a Mexican student in his final year of engineering study. He and his fellow committee members have set up a booth to introduce the Association at the event.
To broaden the international outlook of students, PolyU affords its local undergraduates with ample opportunities to study and experience a different culture at about 200 renowned universities across 25 countries and regions. Every PolyU student is expected to participate in at least one overseas exchange activity and internship before graduation. 
 
