
[date]2009.10.21[/date]
[title]PolyU Knowledge Management Research Centre presents Top Winner of HK MAKE Award to Hong Kong Police Force [/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently organized the Hong Kong round of the Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) Award 2009. The winning organizations (in alphabetical order) are: 
- Cafe de Coral Holdings Limited- Efficiency Unit - 1823 Call Centre, HKSAR Government- Ernst &amp; Young, Hong Kong- Hong Kong Police Force, HKSAR Government- Langham Place Mongkok, Hong Kong- MTR Corporation Limited- The Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, HKSAR Government
The Hong Kong Police Force of the HKSAR Government, the Top Winner of Hong Kong MAKE Award 2009, is also one of the winning organizations of the Asian MAKE Award 2009. 
Officiated at the Award Presentation Ceremony today (21 October) were Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Dr Hon Samson Tam Wai-ho, Legislative Council Member; Mr Peter Cheung, Deputy Director of Intellectual Property, HKSAR Government; Mr Les Hales, President of The Hong Kong Knowledge Management Society; Prof. Alex Wai, Dean of PolyU Faculty of Engineering; and Prof. Lee Wing-bun, Director of PolyU Knowledge Management Research Centre (KMRC). 
Speaking at the Ceremony, Prof. Timothy W. Tong said, "The Award serves to bring public recognition to the organizations which have effectively transform enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products or services."
"This Award facilitates organizations to better understand the importance of knowledge management (KM). This year, we are happy to see more participation from different types of organizations. Among the winning organizations, three are government departments. This reflects the government's strong commitment in driving knowledge management in Hong Kong." said Prof. Lee Wing-bun.
The Global MAKE award is an international benchmark of best practice knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management. The MAKE Award was introduced in Hong Kong by the PolyU Knowledge Management Research Centre in 2008.
The winning organizations have gone through two rounds of evaluation conducted by a panel of respected senior business executives and leading knowledge management experts. In the first round, the panel assessed the KM competence level of the organization based on the same criteria adopted by the Global MAKE Award. In the final round, short-listed organizations were requested to conduct case presentations to the panel.
PolyU is a pioneer in advocating KM in Hong Kong. The University has introduced the territory's first Master of Science in KM to nurture talents for the profession and provides consultancy and training services to the government and the local business community. It is also taking the lead in conducting research relating to KM and knowledge systems engineering, while building international collaboration in the field.
 
