
[date]2009.10.19[/date]
[title]Doctoral Alumni provide PolyU Business Undergraduates with Career Development Support[/title]
In order to fully prepare PolyU students for real-world business, the University's DBA Alumni Association (DBAAA) initiates a mentorship scheme targeted at final year students.
Addressing the DBAAA Mentor-Advisor Programme which was kicked off on 15 October, Professor Judy Tsui, Associate Vice President of PolyU and Dean of the Faculty of Business, said that the University and the Faculty were extremely grateful that their alumni took the initiative to support the younger generation. The programme is a welcome addition to the University's careers and placement services for all students. The DBA alumni are business executives and professional body officials familiar with the latest developments and market expectations in relation to specific sectors and industries. They will also help final year students develop their interests and find placement opportunities.
Professor Ferdinand A. Gul, Programme Director of the PolyU DBA programme, expressed his appreciation to DBAAA and the mentors, 'Our DBA alumni are paying back to the community, they are not only nurturing our final year students, they are assisting them to be the force of our future community. If you ask me what ethics is, I will tell you that these mentors are live samples.'
The programme, which runs from October 2009 until the summer of 2010, aims at helping business undergraduates identify a direction of career development and sharpen their competitive edges. The wide range of activities covers personal coaching, goal setting, experience sharing, company visits, networking and placements.  
The PolyU Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programmeme launched in 1996 was the first of its kind in Hong Kong. It is offered by the PolyU Graduate School of Business, the first graduate business school established in Hong Kong. DBAAA was founded by the first graduates of the PolyU DBA programmeme, one of the first DBA programmemes accredited by the UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA). 
PolyU Faculty of Business was awarded EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) accreditation in 2007. It is currently one of the major business schools in the region with over 220 academic staff, over 2,000 undergraduate students and over 2,000 postgraduate students. 
According to the UTD (University of Texas at Dallas) Top 100 Worldwide Business School Rankings, based on research contributions to 24 leading business journals during the years 2004 to 2008, the Faculty was ranked 66th in the world and 3rd in Asia. With regard to finance and economics research, PolyU has been ranked 42th in the world according to the results of a study recently published in the Journal of Financial Economics. The study, based on research productivity in major economics and finance journals over the period 1970 to 2001, showed that PolyU was the only university in Asia and Australia to make the cut in the ranking of the top 50 universities in the world.
