
[date]2004.10.07[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Day on undergraduate and postgraduate study[/title]
The Education Info Day of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which will be held this Saturday (9 October), is set to attract a big crowd of prospective applicants to the university campus. This year, the University will launch its first Info Day on postgraduate study on the same day for those who are interested in further study.
With the theme "Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU", this large-scale event will give participants first-hand information on the University's postgraduate, degree and sub-degree programmes, as well as other significant developments. The University campus and its facilities will be open to secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public.
To help prospective students make their choice of study, advices on the admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders will be provided at the "Admission Chat Box" at the University's Jockey Club Auditorium. In addition, student ambassadors and staff of the Academic Secretariat will be available to answer queries related to admission matters and to provide consultation especially to Form 7 students. Student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with participants.
To give prospective applicants in-depth details of its programmes, over 50 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by various academic departments. Topics of the seminar include: "The Exciting Fashion and Textile Industry", "Prepare Yourself for a Challenging Career in Hotel, Catering and Tourism Industry", "Is Building and Real Estate My Best Choice?", "Pursuing Studies and Careers in IT".
A total of 15 double degree programmes and programmes with double degree options will be offered by PolyU in the forthcoming academic year. This means that degree students can simply spend an extra year on a self-financed basis to obtain a second degree in a different academic discipline.
These double-degree programmes will combine the strengths of different academic disciplines. These include biomedical engineering and biotechnology; business administration and engineering; chemical technology and fashion technology; design and marketing; engineering physics and electronic and information engineering; geomatics and computing; surveying and environmental design.
In addition, PolyU will offer the following inter-disciplinary degree programmes which are jointly offered by more than one academic department: language studies for the profession; logistics engineering and management; product analysis and engineering; property management and social administration.
Exhibitions on postgraduate study will be held from 2:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. at room C120 of Shaw Amenities Building. Information seminars and consultation sessions will also be arranged to provide detailed information on our postgraduate programmes.
Other highlights of the PolyU Education Info Day are exhibitions, video shows, demonstrations and campus tours. Special programmes include the visit to the "House of Innovation", where many outstanding research projects such as the Mars Rock Corer which has been carried by the European Space Agency spacecraft on Mars, eco-bricks and nano-technology materials, are displayed.
In addition, stall games and performances by staff and students will be staged to give participants a taste of the vibrant life in PolyU.
For more details on the PolyU Education Info Day and Postgraduate Study at PolyU, please visit its official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday or www.polyu.edu.hk/pgcorner respectively.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Day:
Date: 9 October (Saturday) 
Time: 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. (2.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. for Postgraduate Study at PolyU) 
Venue: PolyU podium (C120 in Shaw Amenities Building for Postgraduate Study at PolyU)
