
[date]2009.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU names Centre for the Knee after Dr and Mrs Lui Che-woo[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (3 November) named its Centre for the Knee after philanthropists Dr and Mrs Lui Chee-woo in appreciation of their benevolence and tremendous support for the University.
The Centre was opened by Dr Lui Che-woo and his wife Mrs Lui Chiu Kam-ping, Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, Prof. George Woo, Dean of Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, and Prof. Chetwyn Chan, Head of Department of Rehabilitation Sciences.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Tong expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Dr and Mrs Lui and said, "PolyU is privileged to receive such staunch support from Dr and Mrs Lui, who has made possible the establishment of the Centre for the Knee. This benefaction will support the provision of innovative rehabilitation services for the elderly with knee problems in Hong Kong as well as national athletes on the Chinese mainland."
Dr and Mrs Lui Che-woo are ardent supporters of medical services and education in Hong Kong and on the Chinese mainland. Dr Lui is currently Chairman of the K. Wah Group in Hong Kong which encompasses K. Wah International Holdings Limited, Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited, Stanford Hotels International Limited and K. Wah Construction Materials Limited. The Group has made remarkable achievements in the property development, entertainment and leisure, hotel and construction materials industries over the years. Dr Lui has also held many public offices, including Chairman of the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals, Founding Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Hotel Owners and Member of the Ninth National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
Dr Lui's outstanding achievements and contributions have won him many honours. He is an Honorary Citizen of Nanjing, Guangzhou and Jiangmen. In 1995, an asteroid was named "Lui Che Woo Star" by the International Asteroid/ Comet Naming Committee. In 2005, Dr Lui was awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR and conferred the Degree of Doctor of Business Administration by PolyU. In 2008, PolyU named a building on campus after Dr Lui in recognition of his longstanding support for education and generous donation of $30 million in support of the University's development.
Located in the Rehabilitation Clinic run by PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, the Dr &amp; Mrs Lui Che Woo Centre for the Knee will ride on the existing knee physiotherapy programme to provide professional service to prevent and alleviate common knee problems. Equipped with advanced infrastructure, the Centre will offer both on-site and tele-rehabilitation and monitoring service to the elderly with knee problems. These services are expected to be further extended for national athletes who will be participating in the 2012 London Olympics.
In addition, the Centre will conduct research projects that are beneficial to the long term development of the rehabilitation services for the well-being of the community.
