
[date]2009.09.05[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold 17th Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, held its Seventeenth Congregation today (5 September) on PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated by Prof. Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of Warwick Manufacturing Group and Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. Mr Cliff Sun, Chairman of Federation of Hong Kong Industries, was the Guest-of-Honour. This year, the Congregation saluted a total of 64 graduates including one Engineering Doctorate and 63 postgraduates.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Tong congratulated the graduates on the successful completion of the programme.  He said, 'The IEBMP is a distinguished example of the high-quality application-oriented education PolyU provides. It has nurtured a significant pool of versatile and talented professionals with engineering and business management knowledge over the years. I am confident that our graduates will continue to make the best use of the knowledge and expertise acquired through the programme, and contribute to the sustainable development of Hong Kong and the world.'
During the ceremony, Mr Alexander Tzang, PolyU Deputy President and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) were both re-appointed Honorary Fellows of the University of Warwick.
Launched in 1990, the IEBMP is a unique engineering business management scheme comprising different tiers, namely Engineering Doctorate Programme (EngD) and Integrated Graduate Development Scheme (IGDS) which offers Master's and Postgraduate Awards.
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, leadership and excellence, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management and advanced manufacturing technique. 
