
[date]2009.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU announces appointment of senior management personnel[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (25 November) announced the candidates appointed to fill its five top management positions.  Following these appointments, the new senior management structure under the presidency of Prof. Timothy W. Tong, who assumed office in January this year, will gradually be in place. The new structure, together with redefined roles and responsibilities for various key posts, will cater more effectively for PolyU's development needs.
The new structure saw the introduction of the posts of Provost and Executive Vice President. Prof. Philip Chan Ching-ho, immediate past Dean of Engineering at the University of Science and Technology, has been appointed as the Provost to lead a team consisting of Vice Presidents with academic portfolios and Faculty Deans in the overall planning, development and operation of the University's academic enterprise which includes teaching and research activities, professional and continuing education, as well as student affairs. The Provost will also deputize as President during his absence.
Mr Nicholas Yang, currently Chief Executive Officer of the Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited, has been appointed as the Executive Vice President a team of Vice Presidents with non-academic portfolios in the overall planning, development and operation of the University's non-academic enterprise. His portfolio will cover administration, institutional advancement and partnership development, as well as marketing, internationalisation and advanced executive development.
The appointments of Provost and Executive Vice President were approved by the University Council at a Special Meeting held today, while the appointment of three management posts at the level of Vice President are made by the Council's Senior Executives Evaluation and Compensation Committee. The new appointees (in order of alphabetical order by surname) are:
Prof. Judy Tsui, currently Associate Vice President, Dean of the Faculty of Business, Director of the Graduate School of Business and Chair Professor of Accounting, will assume the post of Vice President (Marketing, Internationalisation and Advanced Executive Development);
Prof. Angelina Yuen, currently Associate Vice President and Head of the Department of Applied Social Science, will assume the post of Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); and
Prof. Walter Yuen, Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Strategic Task Specialist of PolyU, will succeed Prof. Suleyman Demokan, Vice President (Academic Development), upon his retirement in mid 2010.
The commencement date of the above appointments will be in spring / summer of 2010, taking into consideration of the movement of the existing team. Mr Alexander Tzang, currently Deputy President, will retire at the end of this year, while Prof. Jan-ming Ko, Vice President (Special Duties) and Dr Sun-wing Lui, Vice President (Partnership Development), will retire in mid 2010. Prof. Albert Chan, Vice President (Research Development), will take up the Presidency of Hong Kong Baptist University in July next year. Recruitment of his replacement is currently underway. 
"Prof. Chan, Prof. Demokan, Prof. Ko, Dr Lui and Mr Tzang have made immense contributions to the development of PolyU over the years. Their hard works have been instrumental in setting the University on its way and in bringing the success it enjoys today," said Prof. Tong.
"I have confidence that with the expertise and commitment of the new senior management team, PolyU will continue to do well with its mission of achieving excellence in a professional context and will bring the University to its next level of excellence," Prof. Tong added.
The University has gone through a stringent recruitment process by inviting application globally and shortlisting the right candidates through its Senior Executives Appointment Committee. More than 100 applications/nominations have been received for the top jobs while another 60 executives who were approached by the professional search service have indicated interest in the openings.
Notes to Editor: The new management structure and brief bio-data of the senior executive appointees are enclosed in the Appendix.
