
[date]2009.10.29[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Hotel &amp; Tourism Management's World Leadership Position Strengthened[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is ranked no. 2 in the world among academic institutions in hospitality and tourism based on total research output in the 11 leading hospitality and tourism journals over the 15-year period from 1992 to 2006. This is another concrete proof that SHTM is committed to achieving global excellence in hospitality and tourism education.
The league table appears in the study "A World Ranking of the Top 100 Hospitality and Tourism Programs" which will be published in the November 2009 issue of the Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Research. This year PolyU's ranking has moved up from the 4th place in 2005 to the 2nd place in 2009, and it remains the only non-US based institution in the top five. The top five institutions in the rank are Cornell University, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Michigan State University, University of Nevada at Las Vegas and Pennsylvania State University.
SHTM Director Professor Kaye Chon said, "As a global centre of excellence in hospitality and tourism education for the 21st century, the School is well poised to lead the world's hospitality and tourism education in the years to come."
It is also worth noting that for a more recent 5-year period from 2002 to 2006, the same study revealed that PolyU is ranked no. 1 in the world, which clearly indicates PolyU's leadership in research in more recent years.
PolyU had the foresight to establish its School of Hotel and Tourism Management as the best hotel and tourism school in the world. The University unveiled a plan four years ago to develop dedicated premises for the School, in the same year when SHTM was ranked fourth in the world ranking. With the School now moved up to rank second in the world, the PolyU Teaching and Research Hotel has also reached its "pre-opening stage". Professor Chon remarked, "As we are preparing for the opening of the Hotel in 2010, we seek to scale new height and attain higher level of excellence in the years ahead." Indeed, the international status of the School as a world-class institution will be further strengthened through the success of the Hotel.
SHTM is well known as the pioneer of hotel and tourism education in Hong Kong. Since 1979, the School has graduated generations of talented students who suit the rigorous requirements of the hospitality and tourism industry. Its recent achievements include:
• 2009 ' Second ranking in the world among academic institutions in hospitality and tourism based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the November issue of the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research.• 2005 ' Top ranking among Asian institutions and fourth in world-ranking based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the August issue of the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research.• 2003 ' Institutional Achievement Award from International Society of Travel and Tourism Educators (ISTTE) for innovation and contribution to the field of tourism education.• 2002 ' Designation as World Headquarters and Secretariat for the International Academy for the Study of Tourism (IAST).• 2000 ' TedQual (Tourism Education Quality) Certification from United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO).• 1999 ' Designation as Asia's only university among the 16-member UNWTO Education and Training Network.
SHTM's major strength is its international scope, and it prides itself on its internationally recognised faculty members. With 60 academic staff drawing from 18 countries, the School offers programmes at levels ranging from PhD to Higher Diploma.
