
[date]2009.11.17[/date]
[title]Young scientist develops new material for bone repair[/title]
An outstanding researcher of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has successfully extracted useful substance from cocoons of silkworm to develop a new kind of biocomposite for bone repair. She has recently been presented with the coveted "Young Scientist Award" by the Hong Kong Institution of Science in recognition of her accomplishment.
The distinguished honour went to Dr Karen Cheung Hoi-yan who works under the supervision of Associate Professor Dr Alan Lau Kin-tak of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Since the new biocomposite can replace stainless steel as implants for bone repairs, this breakthrough has given a ray of hope for patients who have to undergo surgical operation because of bone fractures.
Although biocompatible metallic materials such as stainless steel and titanium have been widely used by surgeons as bone fixators due to their inert characteristics within the human body, the recovered bone strength will diminish after removal of the metal plates. Another common problem is the growth of excess bone cells around the metal plates and the porosis beneath; and a second surgical operation is deemed necessary to remove the metal plates. There is thus an urgent need to develop a new kind of biocompatiable material to address all these drawbacks.
In light of these problems, PolyU researchers began looking for less stiff materials to replace traditional metallic materials as bone plates. They started with investigating the use of synthetic biodegradable polymer PLA which shows desirable chemical and physical properties. Inspired by the properties of silk, they have subsequently improved the brittleness problem of PLA by blending it with silkworm silk fibre and developed a new kind of biocomposite material.
The silkworm silk-fibre reinforced biocomposite shows extremely high strength and toughness combined with high elasticity, while at the same time provides necessary support for cell attachment and cell growth. Moreover, during the biodegradable process the biocomposite will gradually decompose into lactic acid which is ultimately metabolized and excreted from the human body, which means another surgical operation to extract metal plates can be avoided.
Initial findings showed that the new biocomposite proved to work on broken bones of animals. In the next phase of their study, Dr Cheung is going to apply for the postdoctoral fellowship position at PolyU to continue this project in collaboration with material science and medical researchers of the University of Cambridge, University of California and University of Hong Kong to test the biocompatibility and bioresorbability of the biocomposite on animal bodies.
