
[date]2009.11.30[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni contribute to building a greener Hong Kong[/title]
About 1,000 enthusiastic alumni of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and their friends and family members planted more than 5,000 shrubs and saplings at the Yuen Long Park today (29 November).
Jointly organized by PolyU, the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD), this annual event was kicked off by Dr Ng Tat-lun, PolyU Deputy Council Chairman; Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Prof. Angelina Yuen, PolyU Associate Vice President and Head of the Department of Applied Social Sciences; Ms Florence Tsui, Acting Assistant Director (Leisure Services) of LCSD; and Prof. Kenneth Pang, FHKPUAA President. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the event, Prof. Tong said, "This meaningful event not only helps to build a greener living environment in Hong Kong, but also serves to educate our younger generation in environmental care and sustainable development. PolyU alumni have devoted themselves to serving the community as both professionals and citizens who always care for the common good."
The event was made more colourful with exhibition, game booths and stage performances such as dance and African drum. Towards the end of the event, board members of the FHKPUAA and the organizing committee sang together and brought the fun-filled event to a fruitful close.
Each participant of the green mission is encouraged to donate at least HK$120. The net proceeds generated from the event will be donated to The Community Chest of Hong Kong and to PolyU to support its future development.  
This year, many PolyU alumni bodies rendered their support to this meaningful event. Furthermore, Asia Pacific Catering Corporation Limited and Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Hong Kong) Limited have sponsored respectively meal boxes, drinks and snacks for the participants. 
It was the fifth time that PolyU presented this greening activity. The debut of the event, launched in November 2004, won the Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the "Alumni Relations Programmes" category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU is the first local institution bestowed with such honour.
