
[date]2005.05.09[/date]
[title]PolyU's Centre for Infection Control opens[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held a special ceremony to celebrate the opening of its Centre for Infection Control on campus yesterday (9 May).
Officiating at the inauguration ceremony were: Prof. Didier Pittet, Director, Infection Control Programme, The University of Geneva Hospitals and Clinics, Headquarter, World Health Organization; Mr Meng Qun, Deputy Director, Ministry of Health, China; Ms Kathleen Fritsch, Regional Advisor in Nursing, Western Pacific Regional Office, World Health Organization; Dr William R Jarvis, Ex-Director, National Centre for Infectious Disease and Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the US; Ms Susie Ho, Deputy Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food (Health), HKSAR Government; Dr W H Seto, President, Asia Pacific Society of Infection Control and Chairman, Scientific Advisory Committee on Infection Control, Centre for Health Protection, HKSAR Government; and Prof. Leung Tin-pui, PolyU Vice President.
Established under the auspices of the University's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, the Centre for Infection Control aims to be a breeding ground for evidence-based practice in infection control and a resource centre for the medical and healthcare profession and the community at large. It is a multi-disciplinary, technological, educational and consultative centre, supported by various University departments in a range of disciplines including nursing, optometry and radiography, rehabilitation engineering, building and services engineering, building and real estates, textiles, electronic and information engineering, and computing.
Occupying an area of 120 square metres, the Centre is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. The equipments and infrastructure enable researchers, staff and students to conduct research to detect and investigate health problems, implement prevention and infection control strategies, promote healthy behaviours and provide training programmes. There is also an experimental and research laboratory that can be used for the design of new products for infection control.
Research projects of the Centre include a novel surveillance system for hand washing using Radio Frequency Identification Technology (RFID); personal chamber for infection control in hospital settings; and immunized building. In 2004, its project 'Hospital bed for SARS ward with special air curtain protection for medical workers' won the Bronze Award in the Fifth China International Invention Expo.
