
[date]2005.01.31[/date]
[title]PolyU wins Central Government's recognition for State Key Laboratory[/title]
The Central Government's Ministry of Science and Technology has given green light to The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s application for establishing its Shenzhen-based Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine as a State Key Laboratory.
This facility is the first State Key Laboratory to be set up by a local institution on the Chinese mainland. It is also the first State Key Laboratory specialising in the pharmaceutical sciences and molecular pharmacology of traditional Chinese medicine.
Delighted with this achievement, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said: 'This recognition by the Central Government is a strong boost to our research and development endeavour in traditional Chinese medicine. It will also further strengthen research collaborations between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland, so that together we can pursue world-class research in TCM.'
The PolyU Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine is operated under the aegis of the University's Shenzhen Research Institute (SRI). In early 2004, the Shenzhen Municipal Government also designated this facility as the city's key laboratory and provided a RMB$2 million grant in support of this development.
The Director of this Laboratory, Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, who is also a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), added that it has won widespread support despite its relatively short history. In addition, it has been commissioned by pharmaceutical companies and major organizations, including the Hong Kong Jockey Club Institute of Chinese Medicine, to undertake over 10 contract research projects.
He added that apart from providing an important platform for the research and development of pharmaceutical products, the Institute also offers professional services for the industry in Hong Kong. The Institute is also working in collaboration with top-notch physicians and experts on the mainland to develop high-quality health products and new drugs for the international market. Its wide range of research activities also include qualitative and quantitative analysis as well as standardization of Chinese medicine.
Equipped with state-of-the-art facilities in an area of 2,000-square-metre, the Institute is home to the Open Laboratory of Chirotechnology, SPF- (Specific Pathogen Free) Standard Animal Laboratory, TCM Formulation Laboratory, and other laboratories for TCM pharmacology, TCM chemistry, toxicology and molecular pharmacology.
The Institute of Modern Chinese Medicine and the Institute of Materia Medica operates under the PolyU SRI, which is a conglomeration of research centres and training facilities. In addition to these Institutes, it also comprises the Hong Kong Young Industrialists Council Executive Training Centre, the Rapid Product Development Centre and the Shenzhen ZhongTau Venture Capital Research and Development Co. Ltd. SRI helps PolyU boost its research and professional services and develop high technology in collaboration with mainland scientists and researchers.
In addition to conducting TCM research, PolyU researchers is actively involved in the State Key Laboratory of Fire Science hosted by the University of Technology and Science of China (UTSC). Located in Hefei, Anhui Province, this laboratory is home to the PolyU-UTSC Fire Safety and Technology Research Centre for Large Space. Heading the research team are Prof. Chow Wan-ki of PolyU's Department of Building Services Engineering; and Prof. Fan Weicheng of UTSC.
