
[date]2009.12.22[/date]
[title]PolyU hails success of rising stars in the East Asian Games[/title]
As the East Asian Games came to a fruitful close, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to report a record high of 14 student-athletes participating in the Games. They have untiringly contributed to winning 10 medals out of the 110 medals captured by host city.
Among the 14 participants affiliated with PolyU, squash player Miss Annie Au Wing-chi, a BBA student majoring in management, has brought home the greatest number of medals, including two gold medals respectively in Mixed Doubles and Women's Team, and two silver medals in Women's Single and Women's Doubles. Her younger brother and schoolmate Mr Au Chun-ming also won two gold medals respectively in Mixed Doubles and Men's Team.
PolyU student-athletes have also proved themselves excellent players in team sports. While student nurse Mr Leung Chung-ming and engineering major Mr Chu Ka-ming have contributed to winning a silver medal in Men's Open Coxless Four; two BBA students Miss Lau Sin-tung and Miss Lo Tan-tung were members of the bronze medal-winning Women's Rugby Team.  Miss Lam Mei and Miss Yeung Sau-mei, both studying environmental and occupational safety and health, were members of the Women's Volleyball Team which came fourth amidst fierce competition.
In addition, marketing student and swimmer Mr Yan Ho-chun has set a new Hong Kong record in Men's 50m Butterfly Stroke. Mr Lai Chun-ho, Mr Gary Leung Ka-hei, Mr Daniel Lui Tsz-hin, Mr Wong Lok-hei and Miss Wong Wing-sum also showed their prowess on the track and field.
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU has been giving due consideration to students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 60 students are admitted to the University via the Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme, 41 through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations Scheme, and 1,421 through the Self Recommendation Scheme.
Overall, Hong Kong came fourth in the roll of honour with a tally of 26 gold, 31 silver and 53 bronze medals.
