
[date]2005.05.18[/date]
[title]University admission requirements under the '3-3-4'academic structure[/title]
The Heads of Universities Committee (HUCOM) today reaffirms its support for the development of the new academic structure for secondary education and higher education (the '3-3-4'structure) and believes that the reform will bring significant benefits to the education of our young people in Hong Kong.
Recognising the need to provide information to the broader school community about future university admission requirements, HUCOM has been working, in the light of advice from Education and Manpower Bureau on the proposed curricula and from Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority on the standards and levels, on the new arrangements under the new academic structure.
HUCOM confirms its support for all four core subjects of the secondary school curriculum -Chinese, English, Mathematics and Liberal Studies - to be considered as the mandatory minimum requirements for university entrance.
We expect that the language standards of university entrants will be comparable to the current minimum entrance requirements, which is likely to be Level 3 in the proposed 5-Level system of the new Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education. Our intention is to expect a lower threshold level, likely to be Level 2, for Mathematics and Liberal Studies in the proposed 5-Level system. A final decision will be made by the respective Senates / Academic Boards.
It is recognised that in selecting students to individual programmes, electives may be required in addition to the four core subjects. The specific entrance requirements for different programmes will be made known around June 2006, once the curriculum and assessment details of all subjects of the new Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education are finalised. In developing programme-specific entrance requirements, we will support one of the key goals of the education reform, namely, to encourage "a more broad-based curriculum for students with more choice to suit their individual aptitudes and interests" In general, it is hoped that any programme-specific entrance requirement will include at most one elective that is specified plus possibly one other elective that is to be chosen from within a group of subjects.
Final decisions concerning admission into university programmes will depend on the relative performance of applicants and individual institutions will decide the basis for final selection which goes beyond the minimum requirements. HUCOM believes that selection should also take into account a broader range of information about candidates.
- End -
