
[date]2005.08.16[/date]
[title]PolyU's Gao Yan-ming Scholarship provides impetus for logistics study[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University ('PolyU') has received a generous donation of HK$300,000 from the Chairman of North China Shipping Holdings Company Limited ('North China Shipping') Mr Gao Yan-ming, in support of the development of our Department of Logistics ('LGT'). The donation, commencing from the 2005/06 academic year, will be used to set up an annual scholarship for logistics students.
A donation ceremony, which was officiated by Mr Gao Yan-ming, Chairman of North China Shipping , Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU's Dean of Faculty of Business, Director of Graduate School of Business and Prof. John J. Liu Jian-hua, Head of Logistics, was held on campus today.
At the ceremony, Prof. Tsui registered her appreciation of Mr Gao's enthusiasm in the development of logistics studies and his pledge of continued support. She said, 'The Department has been striving to be a key driver in Hong Kong's pursuit to become an international logistics hub. The healthy and sustainable development of the logistics industry will depend on a pool of qualified professionals. With this donation, we will be in a superb position to groom our best students and address the educational and manpower needs of private-and public-sector organizations in Hong Kong, Mainland China and the region, reinforcing our position as the leader in logistics education in Hong Kong.'
The Scholarship will be awarded to selected full-time undergraduate LGT students in shipping and transport logistics. Of the donation, HK$200,000 will be awarded to those who excel in studies while the remaining amount of HK$100,000 will be used to provide financial aid to those who are in need.
Mr Gao Yan-ming established North China Shipping in Hong Kong in 2001. It is one of the world's leading dry bulk shipping companies, operating worldwide with a principal focus on China. The mission of North China Shipping is to provide quality value-added worldwide dry bulk cargo transportation services.
