
[date]2006.03.01[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Design establishes “MERECL” Laboratory[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Design (SD) has recently established a new laboratory to further promote digital entertainment technologies and to provide incubation support for start-up creative industries in the territory.
Known as MERECL (Multimedia Entrepreneurial Research, Education and Creative Laboratory; pronounced as "miracle"), the new laboratory is the first research facility established by a tertiary institution in Cyberport. It was officially unveiled yesterday (1 March) by Mr Joseph Wong, Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology; Mr Lo Chung-wing, Chairman of PolyU Council; Prof Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Prof. Lorraine Justice, Head of SD.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said the establishment of MERECL would create a win-win situation for both PolyU and the Cyberport. 
"MERECL will be able to tap on the rich resources and state-of-the-art facilities that the SAR Government has established in the vicinity, especially the Digital Media Centre. This will further leverage the research capabilities of SD, enabling the faculty to scale new heights in promoting the advancement of digital entertainment," he said.  
 
Prof. Justice is also optimistic about the future development of digital entertainment, which is one of the world's fastest-growing industries. She added that MERECL will be backed by SD's reputed Multimedia Innovation Centre.  
Occupying a net floor area of over 7,000 square feet, MERECL is home to a team of multimedia and design experts.  It is equipped with advanced multimedia infrastructure, and with convenient access to the multitude of cutting-edge facilities in the same building.
As a new key digital entertainment laboratory in Hong Kong, MERECL will develop creative intellectual properties for commercialization; offer specialist training in digital creative skills ranging from motion capture to screen-writing; provide pre-incubation and graduate training facilities to set new digital, design and creative ventures; as well as digital media services to businesses.
Dr Gino Yu, Director of Digital Entertainment and Game Development of SD, said MERECL will help Hong Kong affirm its leading position in the highly competitive digital entertainment industry.  He stressed that MERECL is not just set up for Hong Kong, but also for the Chinese mainland.
The operation of MERECL will focus on "transmedia" ventures. In the context of the  new entertainment industry,  the buzzword means that a MERECL creative property could be launched simultaneously as a movie, a game, a book, and etc.
In Hong Kong, PolyU is the forerunner and sole provider of design education at tertiary level. Since its inception in 1964, SD has groomed thousands of graduates and many famous designers in various disciplines. To name just a few, they include world-renowned fashion designer Vivienne Tam, Mr Raman Hui, Oscar-winner and Supervising Animator for Shrek; Mr Dennis Chan, founder of the jewelry brand Qeelin; and Mr Freeman Lau, Partner of Kan &amp; Lau design consultancy. 
Over the years, PolyU has been moving ahead with times to promote design education and multimedia technology.  In 1999, it established the Multimedia Innovation Centre to promote the use of multimedia technology in education and to expedite the adoption of digital media technologies within the industry.
