
[date]2006.04.25[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces new Scholarship Schemes for local and non-local students[/title]
Starting from the 2006/2007 academic year, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will introduce new Scholarship Schemes for outstanding students from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas.
PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Prof. Suleyman Demokan said the new schemes aim at encouraging outstanding students to pursue their undergraduate studies at the Institution. In line with the University's objective of promoting all-round education, the scheme for local students is further divided into two categories to attract students with academic and non-academic achievements.
Mrs Nancy Tong, Academic Secretary, elaborated that for local applicants seeking admission through the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) based on HKALE results, the tuition fee of $42,100 per year will be automatically waived for those having attained HKALE 2A's + 1B or the equivalent and C in AS Chinese and English in the first attempt. The students concerned will be also granted an allowance of HK$35,000 per year.
Scholarships amounting to a waiver of tuition fee plus an allowance of HK$15,000 per year will be granted to those having attained HKALE 2A's or 1A + 2B's; or HKALE 1A + 1B plus 4A's in HKCEE; and C in AS Chinese and English in the first attempt.
The minimum requirements for waiver of tuition fee is HKALE 1A + 1B or HKALE 3B's or equivalent; and C in AS Chinese and English in the first attempt.
Depending on their academic progress, the scholarships will be tenable for three or four years if they attain a GPA of not less than 3.2 for each and every semester during their studies at PolyU.
On the other hand, students with outstanding achievement in non-academic areas, including art (such as painting, sculpture and design), music, sports, leadership and community service, will be eligible for consideration of a scholarship amounting to a waiver of tuition fee for the total normal duration of their studies.
Recipients of non-academic scholarships are expected to have reached international level of performance. The scholarship is renewable every year, on the condition that the students concerned obtain a cumulative GPA of not less than 2.5. They are also encouraged to continue with active involvement in their area of non-academic interest during their studies at PolyU.
Prof. Demokan stressed that PolyU will not set any limit on the number of academic and non-academic scholarships to be awarded to local students.
In addition, a number of full scholarships, each of HK$100,000 for covering both tuition fee and living expenses, will be made available for outstanding non-local students from the Chinese mainland and all around the world.
The University plans to admit about 240 non-local students in the 2006/2007 academic year. It will beef up its efforts in recruiting elite students from the Mainland and all around the world by publicising the new Scholarship Schemes through different channels, including its strong, extensive network in the Mainland.
For mainland students applying through the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), scholarships will be considered on a competitive basis based on their JEE results and English score. The scholarship is tenable for three or four years, provided that the recipients attain a semester GPA of not less than 3.2 continuously during their studies.
This year PolyU has received a total of 43,328 local applications, representing a four per cent increase over last year.  Among them, over 3,500 have also submitted their portfolio  under the Non-academic Achievement Self Recommendation Scheme for the PolyU's further consideration.
As of 24 April, PolyU has already received over 1,000 applications from non-local students. This is nearly triple the number received at the same time last year. Application for mainland students will close on 31 May.
In the current academic year (2005/06), PolyU has a total of 466 non-local students pursuing full-time UGC-funded undergraduate programmes and, of these, 204 are new students.
