
[date]2005.01.03[/date]
[title]PolyU to receive $2 million from Manulife for children’s Specific Learning Disabilities centre[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (3 January) received a HK$2 million commitment from Manulife Charitable Foundation, a not-for-profit organization established in 1998 by Manulife (International) Limited (MIL), in support of its School of Nursing to further develop the Manulife Centre for Children with Specific Learning Disabilities (MCCSLD).
The donation marks the Foundation's continued support of the MCCSLD for another three years, from 2005 to 2007. MCCSLD was jointly founded by the Foundation and PolyU's School of Nursing in 1999 to provide academic and professional services to children with Special Learning Disabilities (SLD) and has been steadily growing ever since.
A special ceremony was held today at the PolyU where guests-of-honour Mr. Victor Apps, Senior Executive Vice President and General Manager of Asia, Manulife Financial, and Mr. Michael Huddart, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Hong Kong, Manulife (International) Limited, presented a cheque on behalf of the Foundation to Mr Roy Chung, PolyU Deputy Chairman of Council and Mr Alexander H.C. Tzang, PolyU Acting President. Prof. Thomas Wong, PolyU Dean of Faculty of Health &amp; Social Sciences, was also present at the ceremony.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Tzang thanked the Foundation for their continued benefaction to the University. "Since its establishment in 1999, the Centre has received donations amounting to HK$3.8 million from the Manulife Charitable Foundation. The Foundation's recent support has injected fresh impetus to drive further research and development into combating special learning disabilities and related services."
"Manulife has been growing with Hong Kong ever since it arrived in the region in 1897 and it cares about the people here as much as it cares about its businesses. As a caring company, Manulife is committed to meaningful community involvement that has far-reaching influences," said Mr. Apps. "We are always alert to the needs in our society and will offer assistance wherever and whenever appropriate. Manulife takes pride in being a part to help some of the less privileged younger generation to rebuild their confidence, which is an essential part of enabling them to adapt into society and become successful."
"We are glad that the work of the Manulife Centre for Children with Specific Learning Disabilities has been recognized and has gained significant awareness from the public," said Mr. Huddart. "The Centre has become an authoritative place to turn to for professional guidance and assistance. Manulife is pleased to continue its long-term sponsorship of the Centre to help those children born with specific learning disabilities."
The Centre has attracted a membership of approximately 1,200 and more than 300 seminars, workshops and training camps have been held so far to help SLD children, their parents and teachers to overcome problems they have encountered.
When introducing the Centre's recent research projects and services for dyslexic children and their parents, Dr. Alice Lai Cheng Cheng-gea, Associate Professor, PolyU School of Nursing and Centre-in-Charge of MCCSLD, said that the recent support from Manulife will further enable the development of literacy support resources for these special children.
To support the holistic development of SLD children in Hong Kong, the Centre aims to make further advancement in this important research area and provide a wide range of specialist services, such as day camps, workshops, seminars and courses for these children, their parents and teachers.
About Manulife Charitable Foundation:The Manulife Charitable Foundation is a non-profit organization set up by Manulife (International) Limited in 1998 to support and promote educational, health and charitable activities for the betterment of public welfare in Hong Kong. It has sponsored the Manulife Centre for Children with Specific Learning Disabilities since 1999 with a mandate to assist children with specific learning difficulties, and their parents and teachers, by studying how to identify children in need of assistance and to help them develop their full potential.
About Manulife (International) Limited:Manulife (International) Limited is a member of the Manulife Financial group of companies. Manulife Financial is a leading Canadian-based financial services group serving millions of customers in 19 countries and territories worldwide. Operating as Manulife Financial in Canada and Asia, and primarily through John Hancock in the United States, the Company offers clients a diverse range of financial protection products and wealth management services through its extensive network of employees, agents and distribution partners. Funds under management by Manulife Financial and its subsidiaries were Cdn$346 billion (approximately HK$2,138 billion) as at September 30, 2004.
Manulife Financial Corporation trades as 'MFC' on the TSX, NYSE and PSE, and under '0945' on the SEHK. Manulife Financial can be found on the Internet at www.manulife.com.
