
[date]2006.05.12[/date]
[title]Inauguration of the Confucius Institute of Hong Kong[/title]
Established by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) with a mandate to further promote Chinese language and culture in the territory, the Confucius Institute of Hong Kong (CIHK) was officially inaugurated yesterday (12 May).
PolyU was authorized by the China National Office for Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (also known as "Hanban") to set up and run the CIHK. The Institute was opened by Mr Zheng Kunsheng, Associate Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR; Mr Zhang Shiping, Vice Director General of Hanban and Vice Director of the Department of Language Planning and Administration at the Ministry of Education; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President and Chairman of the CIHK Council.
Prof. Poon said the CIHK aimed to provide a congenial study environment for learners of the Chinese language. It would also make use of Hong Kong's advantage as an international city to further promote the application of Chinese language as well as Chinese culture.
He said the Central Government's idea of setting up Confucius Institutes worldwide is full of foresight and extremely meaningful. Being an application-oriented institution, PolyU is in full support of Hanban and this initiative.
The learning of Chinese language is increasingly popular around the world. According to official statistics, more than 2,000 institutions in over 80 countries are offering Chinese courses, with an estimated total enrolment of nearly 30 million students. Such figures have not yet included courses provided by private institutions and those Chinese courses offered by secondary and primary schools.
Prof. Leung Tin-pui, Honorary Director of CIHK, said the Institute's activities would focus on two areas, namely Chinese language teaching and culture promotion. It would offer language training courses and courses for teachers of Chinese as a foreign language, organize summer study camps for Chinese language and culture, public lectures, and develop teaching materials.
The establishment of CIHK has gained wide support from senior government officials and community leaders from both within and outside the cultural sector. Dr Donald Tsang Yam-kuen, Chief Executive of the HKSAR; and Mr Gao Siren, Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR, have both kindly agreed to be Patrons of CIHK.
The list of advisors also include Prof. Arthur Li Kwok-cheung, Dr Patrick Ho Chi-ping, Mr. Louis Cha, Prof. Jao tsung-I, Dr Alice Lam, Dr Tong Yan-kai, Mr Victor Lo, and Presidents of other universities in Hong Kong.
