
[date]2005.01.28[/date]
[title]HKCC graduates enjoy articulation onto OUHK's degree programmes[/title]
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, yesterday (28 January) signed an articulation agreement with The Open University of Hong Kong (OUHK), providing its graduates an additional opportunity to further their degree studies.
The signing ceremony was officiated at by Prof. Philip Yeung, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU; Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC; Prof. Danny Wong, Vice President (Academic) of the OUHK and Prof. Ip Yiu-keung, Dean, School of Business and Administration of the OUHK.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Yeung said the newly signed agreement has made HKCC the seventh local partner of the OUHK for the articulation of Associate Degree and Higher Diploma graduates. "The new collaboration brings mutual benefits to both institutions as students of HKCC will enjoy more choices in furthering their degree study while the OUHK will broaden its catchment through the continuous development of a partnership network."
"The agreement has not only represented another step forward of the OUHK's long-established credit accumulation and transfer system, but also signified our efforts in providing aspiring learners with flexible study pathways that recognize their former qualifications. ,"said Prof. Wong.
Under the articulation agreement, all graduates of HKCC will enjoy exemption of up to 80 credits for studying a relevant Bachelor's degree at the OUHK. Students can complete the remaining 40 credits and obtain a recognized degree in as least as one year.
Since its establishment, HKCC has rapidly grown from offering a single AD programme, with an intake of 240 students in 2001/02, to now a total of 13 programmes, with a student intake of 2,400 in 2004/05. According to its 2004 graduate survey, about three quarters of respondents furthered their Bachelor's Degree studies in either full-time or part-time modes and over 50 per cent had more than one offer for their articulation study.
Currently, the OUHK presents more than 90 bachelor's and postgraduate degree programmes that cover a wide spectrum of academic disciplines ranging from information technology, electronics, environmental studies, language and translation, public administration, electronic commerce, business management, banking and finance, accounting and corporate administration. Students of HKCC will be able to choose the right degree programmes that are relevant to their disciplines upon graduation.
