
[date]2006.03.14[/date]
[title]PolyU's computing programmes win recognition by the China General Chamber of Commerce[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Department of Computing (COMP) has recently completed the stringent accreditation requirement of the China General Chamber of Commerce (CGCC) for its Master of Science in E-Commerce (MScEC) and Information Systems (MScIS) programmes. They are the world's first and only MSc programmes being professionally recognized by CGCC.
Starting from 2005, MScEC &amp; MScIS graduates are exempted by CGCC from all examinations required for Senior Certified Commercial E-Business Specialist (CCEBS) in the Chinese mainland. Mr Yao Xin, Director of the Certification Department of the Occupational Skill Testing and Instruction Center of CGCC, has made a special trip to Hong Kong to present the certificates to the latest batch of graduates on 9 March.
Prof. Keith Chan, Head of COMP, said, "The Senior CCEBS qualification is the only recognized certification of its kind for e-Business professionals in the Chinese mainland. We are most delighted that our programmes are the first in the world to be awarded such accreditation. It is indeed an important cornerstone of the mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland."
Established in 1974, COMP is a pioneer in providing tertiary education in computing in the territory. Over the years, COMP has dedicated strenuous efforts in providing high-quality training and groomed over 10,000 graduates. The MScEC &amp; MScIS programmes, emphasizing a suitable balance between theory and application, are offered in part-time mode for a normal duration of two years.
CGCC is a juridical association under the administration of the State Economic and Trade Commission. Having over 500 members, the Chamber is established to facilitate government to implement commercial trade management, to offer service for its members and to promote the development of commercial trade.
