
[date]2004.06.04[/date]
[title]School of Design honours outstanding alumni[/title]
The School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University yesterday (4 June) held a Gala Dinner at the Kowloon Shangri-La Hotel to bring together alumni of different generations, friends and supporters from industry to celebrate the success of the School over the past four decades. The School also took the opportunity to present special awards to honour three of its outstanding alumni.
With the theme, 'Igniting the Flame: 40 years of Design@PolyU', the Gala Dinner was officiated at by Mr Francis Ho, Permanent Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology and Mr Andrew Leung, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. They were accompanied by Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo, President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, Vice President and Acting Head of the School of Design Prof. Leung Tin-pui.
A forerunner and recognized leader in design education, PolyU has long served the community by producing thousands of design professionals for various industries. During the dinner, the School of Design presented three special awards to the following alumni in honour of their outstanding achievement and services to the industry:
Mr Raman Hui, 1984 graduate of Higher Diploma in Design (Graphic Communication) of the Hong Kong Polytechnic, received the Distinguished Design Alumni Award 2004 (Overseas Professional). Raman is now Supervising Animator of DreamWorks and took part in the production of the Oscar-winning movie 'Shrek' and the world's second computer-animated film 'Antz'.
Mr Tommy Li, 1983 graduate of Higher Certificate in Two-Dimensional Design of the Hong Kong Polytechnic, received the Distinguished Design Alumni Award 2004 (Local Professional). Tommy is now Creative Director of Tommy Li Design Workshop Limited, specializing in poster, packaging design and corporate identity programmes. Over the years, Tommy has received over 100 awards including four from the New York Art Directors' Club.
Mr Paul Wong, 1985 graduate of Diploma in Design of the Hong Kong Polytechnic, received the Distinguished Design Alumni Award 2004 (Special Merit). A leading guitarist of the band Beyond, Paul is a popular figure in the local music scene and is best known for his creative talents in arts and music.
Other renowned alumni joining the Gala Dinner were Mr Eric Chan, Mr Dennis Chan, Mr Barrie Ho, Mr Freeman Lau, Mr Honson Lee, Dr Rebecca Lee and Mr Alan Yip, to name just a few.
