
[date]2006.05.04[/date]
[title]PolyU's Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) Programme Announces International Collaboration: Milestone for its 10th Anniversary[/title]
The Graduate School of Business ("GSB") of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University ("PolyU") is celebrating the 10th anniversary of its flagship programme, the DBA, by establishing strategic collaboration with two of the world's leading business schools.
GSB has entered into agreements with the world-renowned IMD (International Institute for Management Development) in Lausanne, Switzerland and the Sauder School of Business at The University of British Columbia ("UBC") in Canada. Starting from the 2006/2007 academic year, IMD will offer a credit-bearing elective for DBA participants, while professors from UBC will co-teach two DBA subjects.
The Faculty has also launched major initiatives to gain international recognition, including the recent AMBA accreditation of all its MBA programmes including MBA &amp; EMBA in the Chinese Mainland. The two new collaborative partners mark another milestone in the Faculty's move towards greater internationalization of its programmes.
Professor Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU Faculty of Business and Director of GSB said, "These collaborations truly testify that PolyU DBA is of the highest international standard. We are optimistic that GSB would forge more and more collaboration with world renowned business schools."
IMD is one of the world's leading business schools, with over 50 years of experience in developing the leadership capabilities of international business executives. IMD executive education was ranked 3rd in the world and 1st among European business schools for the overall quality of its programmes in the 2005 Financial Times rankings. THE MBA was ranked 1st worldwide in the 2005 Wall Street Journal rankings. IMD's custom programmes and Executive MBA were ranked 1st in Europe, and its open-enrollment programmes were ranked 2nd in Europe (3rd worldwide) in the Business Week 2005 Executive Education survey. The Sauder School of Business at UBC is known as one of the pre-eminent business schools in North America. It is committed to being a leading international centre for the creation, teaching and application of innovative management thinking.
Professor Peter Yuen, DBA Programme Director, said this unique programme has come a long way. Since its launch in 1996, the first of its kind in Hong Kong, the PolyU DBA has been providing opportunities for senior managers to become "scholar-managers". The programme has gained high acclaim in Hong Kong and the Chinese Mainland.
Prominent graduates include Dr Wang Jianzhou（王建宙博士）, President of China Mobile Communications Corporation; Dr Chang Xiao Bing（常小兵博士）, Chairman &amp; CEO of China Unicom Limited; Dr Kao Ruey Bin（高瑞彬博士）, Corporate President of Motorola Inc China; Dr Christine Lai（黎天姿博士）, Executive Director, Head of Human Resources (HK &amp; North Asia) of ABN AMRO Bank; Dr Royce Yuen（袁文俊博士）, Group Managing Director of Ogilvy Southern China, just to name a few.
The PolyU DBA is a professional doctorate -- a rigorous programme at the highest level of business education, designed to educate scholar-managers to meet the educational needs of senior executives. The credit-based, part-time programme integrates eight doctoral subjects, a thesis and two international residentials to prepare the participants to apply the latest theories and concepts to real management decisions. For more details, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb/dba or call (852) 2766 7373.
For further information about the GSB, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb
