
[date]2006.04.19[/date]
[title]PolyU-affiliated HKCC announced new admission schemes in 2006/07[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a leader in Associate Degree education, yesterday (19 April) announced details of its new admission schemes for the academic year 2006/07, including the 'Self Recommendation for Admission Scheme' and 'Principal's Recommendation for Admission Scheme' as well as the application criteria for the related 'Outstanding HKCC Freshman Scholarship.
For the forthcoming academic year 2006/07, HKCC will offer a total of 22 Sub-Degree programmes taught by its strong team of academic staff with an aim to nurture the younger generation in their academic and career development.
To encourage students to self-assess and recommend themselves for the HKCC programmes, the 'Self Recommendation for Admission Scheme' is created. According to HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung, "Youngsters nowadays need more self-confidence. Recommending oneself for our programmes is a very good exercise for a student to review on his/her abilities, academic achievements, extracurricular activities and community services for future improvement and advancement to fully develop his/her strengths and potentials."
Under this scheme, each student may prioritize his/her preferred study areas up to three programmes and submit the application together with supplementary information on performance in extracurricular activities and services to school(s) and/or the community. HKCC will evaluate and consider applicants' academic qualifications and extracurricular activities involvement as a whole.
One of the HKCC missions is to develop students to become a whole person with sound professional knowledge, effective interpersonal skills, leadership ability and a positive outlook of life. The 'Principal's Recommendation for Admission Scheme' is evolved from this mission and provides opportunities for principals to recommend capable students who have good attributes in learning attitude, conduct, interpersonal communication, leadership skills and extracurricular activities. Through this scheme, HKCC also hope to foster the spirit of holistic education in the secondary school education environment.
Students applying to this scheme may also indicate a maximum of three programmes choices according to their priority. In particular, the application requires the principal's comments on the recommended student's qualities in the following aspects: industriousness; persistency; maturity; analytical power; independence; leadership skills; self-initiation; sense of responsibility; conduct; ability to work well with others.
In relation to the 'Principal's Recommendation for Admission Scheme', the 'Outstanding HKCC Freshman Scholarship' is offered to new HKCC students who attained outstanding achievements in school, extracurricular involvements and/or voluntary services. Dr Simon Leung said, 'We encourage secondary school principals to recommend their students in applying for this scholarship which aims at recognizing new admittees' superior all-round performances during their secondary school years.'
A maximum of 30 scholarship of HK$10,000 each will be awarded. All new students pursuing their stage-one studies at the HKCC in the academic year 2006/07 are eligible to apply for the scholarship with the recommendation by their school principals. Results of the scholarship award will be announced by mid-June this year together with the results for the Principal's Recommendation for Admission Scheme.
Deadline for the two new admission schemes and the freshmen scholarship is 30 May 2006. Application details and the relevant forms can be found via http://www.polyu.edu.hk/hkcc/newweb/news_and_events/RecommendationScheme/
