
[date]2006.03.16[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Careers Fortnight[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Student Affairs Office is staging "Career Fortnight 2006" to help final-year students obtain first-hand information from prospective employers and keep abreast of current trend in the job market.
Highlight of the two-week event is a large-scale Careers Exhibition for PolyU students which was jointly kicked off yesterday (16 March) by Mr. Stephen Ip Shu-kwan, Secretary for Economic Development and Labour; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; and Mrs. Dorinda Fung, Director of Student Affairs.
Citing preliminary findings of the Graduates Employment Survey 2005, Prof. Poon said more than 97.5 per cent of the latest cohort of PolyU graduates were engaging in either employment or full-time study.
He added that some 52 per cent of degree graduates secured their first job offer by June, not long after they had just finished their study, and only 1.2 per cent of them were still looking for a job by December.
"Notably, over 58 per cent of graduate respondents who had joined the Preferred Graduate Development Programme (PGDP) secured their first job offer by June," Prof. Poon added. "These figures once again prove that the Programme has been extremely successful in enhancing our graduates' skills and competitive edge, thus making them the preferred choices of our employers."
The unique PGDP was launched by the University in 1997 to help PolyU students obtain valuable actual working experience through various placement opportunities in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland or overseas countries before their graduation. With the support of over 800 partner companies and supporting organizations, more than 6,000 students have benefited from this programme so far.
The careers exhibition this year was joined by about 30 organizations from the public and private sectors. Representatives from the civil service, professional organizations, educational institutions and other private companies, such as Maersk, DHL Logistics, and Li &amp; Fung, were on hand to answer enquiries from students.
The exhibition also offered valuable chances for students to seek career advice from community leaders, including Dr David Pang, CEO of Airport Authority; Dr Lee Lok-sze, Founder and Director of China Polar Museum Foundation; and Dr Paul Mok, General Manager of Orient Overseas Container Line in this special presentation.
In addition, the would-be graduates also had the opportunities to join more than 30 recruitment talks and training workshops, as well as visits to six production plants in China, which included Chen Hsong Holdings, ASM Pacific Technology and Tontec International, during the two-week function which would last until 25 March.
