
[date]2005.09.12[/date]
[title]Vice-President impressed with nanotechnology at PolyU textile centre[/title]
Vice-President Zeng Qinghong this morning (September 12) visited the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, where he was briefed on the latest developments in the application of nanotechnology.
Mr Zeng was impressed with the groundbreaking use of nanotechnology in designing "smart" textiles for garments during a tour of the Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel.
Professor of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, Fan Jintu, introduced Mr Zeng to "Walter" - the world's first "sweating" manikin and explained how the dummy worked. Life-size Walter is made up of water, mechatronics and breathable fabric, allowing realistic simulation of human thermal physiology under various environments.
The manikin achieves a body temperature distribution similar to a real person because 37-degree-Celsius water is pumped through his body. His moisture-permeable fabric "skin" allows him to perspire.
The technology has applications in the design of clothing for individuals operating in extreme environments, such as soldiers, athletes, firefighters and astronauts. It also allows for the design of more comfortable clothing for the general consumer.
Chief Executive Mr Donald Tsang accompanied Mr Zeng to PolyU. Also joining the tour were Permanent Secretary for Education and Manpower Mrs Fanny Law, Chairman of the Council of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Mr Victor Lo and University President Professor Poon Chung-kwong.
The Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel was established in June 2003 and is funded by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government's Innovation and Technology Fund.
More than 200,000 students have graduated from PolyU, which offers a range of courses that meet Hong Kong's commercial and community needs. To strengthen exchanges with the Mainland, PolyU has set up academic centres in places such as Hangzhou, Shenzhen and Xian.
At the university, Mr Zeng also witnessed the signing of a co-operation agreement between Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Beijing Institute of Technology.
The agreement ceremony was also attended by Mr Tsang, Director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council Mr Liao Hui, Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Mr Gao Siren, Mr Lo and Mrs Law.
The Vice-President's visit to PolyU ended with an exchange of souvenirs.
