
[date]2006.04.20[/date]
[title]PolyU's Research Centre for Professional Communication in English established[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of English (ENGL) has recently established the territory's first Research Centre for Professional Communication in English (RCPCE), marking an important milestone in promoting the further advancement of professional communication in Hong Kong.
Headed by Prof. Winnie Cheng, Director of RCPCE and Professor of ENGL, the RCPCE is established with a mission to better serve the communication needs of professional communities and deepen our understanding of professional communication. It will serve as a forum for academics with interests in professional communication to pursue applied research and consultancy and to facilitate joint research between academics and practitioners in professional communities.
Prof. Cheng said, "The importance of professional communication has already attracted a considerable amount of attention, both in Hong Kong and internationally. As a leading application-oriented university, PolyU is keen to address the market needs on professional communication. The establishment of RCPCE will surely mark a positive step for extending the knowledge frontiers in this specialized area."
Initially, RCPCE is undertaking several research projects involving a total budget of more than $2.4 million. The research interests of the members and associates of the RCPCE include Hong Kong spoken English used in social, academic, business and public settings; call centre discourse in South East Asia; the use of English by Chinese professionals in post-1997 Hong Kong; language assessment and evaluation in professional contexts; intercultural communication competencies in professions such as hotel industry, surveying and the media; and literacy learning of low proficiency students in a Hong Kong secondary school.
On 8 and 9 April, a symposium on "Exploring Professional Communication: Issue, challenges and research" was organized by ENGL, during which the RCPCE was officially inaugurated. The inauguration was officiated at by Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU's Vice President (Research Development), Dr Xu Xunfeng, Acting Head of ENGL and Prof. Winnie Cheng.
Over the years, ENGL has made a name for itself in the area of professional communication, both in terms of its research activities, expertise and teaching. It has dedicated strenuous efforts in enhancing students' professional communication skills through its high-quality programmes, including the well-known MA in English for the Professions and the new BA (Hons) Language Studies for the Professions.  Since its establishment, more than 1,500 students have graduated from ENGL.
