
[date]2008.09.22[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Day[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Day this Saturday (27 September) on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on the degree and higher diploma programmes and other significant developments of the University. PolyU's campus and facilities, as well as the Student Residential Hall, will be open to secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public.
Themed on 'Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU', the Education Info Day aims to help prospective students make their choice of study. The event provides JUPAS applicants and other visitors with detailed information about the characteristics, strengths and achievements of PolyU's various departments and schools by exhibitions, seminars, demonstrations and guided visits.
Staff of the Academic Secretariat and student ambassadors will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students. Furthermore, performances, stall games and other attractions will be held to ensure the Info Day lively and entertaining.
To give prospective applicants in-depth details of the University's programmes, including its eight new full-time undergraduate degree programmes funded by the University Grants Committee to be offered in the 2009-2010 academic year, nearly 60 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by its various academic departments. Topics of the seminars include: 'The Exciting Fashion and Textiles Industry', 'Business Excellence in the New Era', 'Building Services Engineering: A Bridge to a Lifelong Exciting Career', 'IT is Full of Opportunities ' Pursuing Studies and Careers in IT', 'English Studies for the Professions', 'Medical Laboratory Science ' Atypical Detectives: Medical Laboratory Scientists', 'Becoming a Designer' and 'Ride the Asian Wave to Become a Hotel and Tourism Industry Professional'.
Other highlights of the event include: visit to the House of Innovation, where many PolyU's award-winning research projects are displayed, and the Industrial Centre, where advanced equipment will be introduced; and exhibition on the University's Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme, to name but a few.
The PolyU Education Info Day is open from 9:30am to 6:00pm. For more details, please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/infoday.
Press Invitation Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Day: Date :  27 September (Saturday) Time :  9:30 am ' 6:00 pm Venue : PolyU Campus
