
[date]2010.01.21[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion talents present creative works in Knitwear Symphony 2010[/title]
Dr Judyanna Ng, Senior Lecturer of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), and three ITC graduates Mr Matt Hui, Mr Erik Tam and Ms Clova Chan, displayed their innovative design in an extraordinary and glamorous knitwear fashion show in Hong Kong "Knitwear Symphony 2010" staged yesterday (20 January) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
Organized by the Knitwear Innovation and Design Society, the event aims to showcase Hong Kong designers' talents and capabilities and to reinforce the city's position as the world's leading knitwear sourcing centre. It features the latest knitwear collections of Dr Judyanna Ng, three ITC graduates and five other renowned local designers, including Mr Peter Lau and Ms Hidy Ng.
More than 600 local and overseas fashion experts and representatives from the industry were drawn to the event.
About Judyanna Ng and her collection "Emotive"
Dr Judyanna Ng is the Senior Lecturer of ITC of PolyU. Her research and design interest is in the relationship between fashion and social/cultural context, fashion and knitwear design, as well as embroidery and accessories design. She obtained her Master degree in fashion from Domus Academy in Milan and PhD from PolyU in 2004. In 2009, Dr Ng was invited to present her collection "Cinese Magileria" in the first Knitwear Symphony, the 13th SpinExpo Shanghai and the first SpinExpo New York. Dr Ng is currently the co-ordinator of the new specialism in Knitwear Design with Technology under PolyU's bachelor degree programme in fashion and textiles.
Ethnic inspiration is the design signature of Dr Judyanna Ng. This contemporary ladies knitwear collection, titled "Emotive", is a remembrance of contrasting elements: Romance and Shock, Craftsmanship and Technology. The approach is simple, experimental, improvise, innovative. This collection combines desirable womenswear orientated from the deep cultural heritage of Japan with technological advances in knitwear design.
To express the sensation in terms of silhouette, Dr Ng lined her knitwear with bizarre shapes and deliberately skewed proportion through the traditional knitting method, but also incorporating the advance knitting method. Integrating mesmerizing images with digital printing on knitwear is setting the latest trend. "Manipulated and mashed-up imagery of traditional Japanese motifs with abstracts patterns", a new digital psychedelic is created for the collection. Greys are tinted with rich purple and mauve for a new look in digital landscape.
About Matt Hui and his collection
Matt Hui graduated from ITC's Bachelor of Arts (Hons) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles in 2008 and he was also the finalist in the Hong Kong Young Fashion Designers' Contest 2008. He is now an Assistant Designer (Womenswear) in Shanghai Tang.
Matt's collection offers an interesting scenario in which people struggle to return to their root in nature. The clothes allude to a sense of the primitive with the use of leather, cashmere, as well as knitted wool ' which double as fur ' as main decorative motifs. The geometric panelling, screw-like buttons and glittery accessories create a contrasting space-age feel. The clothes are voluminous but not heavy, and despite the reference to technology and the future, the wearers appear soft and human rather than robotic.
About Erik Tam and his collection "Thermograph"
Erik Tam graduated from ITC's Bachelor of Arts (Hons) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles in 2008. He is currently working as Assistant Knitwear Fashion Designer in FENIX HONG KONG LTD. He participated in the HK Fashion Week SS2010 Open Gala Show in 2009.
Fashion is a tangible element and can be visualized in our eyes. However, it coexists in another perspective with different performance. The colours/patterns in "Thermograph" change according to the temperature of our body, while our body temperature changes because of the materials of what we wear.
About Clova Chan and her collection "Ice on Fire; Water of Wind"
Graduated from ITC's Bachelor of Arts (Hons) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles in 2009, Clova Chan was appointed by Shima Seiki (Hong Kong) Ltd. to create this knitwear collection for Autumn/Winter 2010-11.
With the theme "Ice on fire; Water of Wind", the collection was inspired by her travel experience in Iceland, the people, culture, and architecture there. "Ice on Fire; Water of Wind" is the way the Icelandic people describe their land. Free and simple, raw and tough, are the impression of the Iceland to the designer, so as the mood of this collection. This is a green collection, in which all the garments were knitted with organic yarns. It hopes to draw public attention to "Save the ICE" ' both Iceland and glacier. This collection shows the designer's cheer, love and support to Icelanders and green movement.
 
