
[date]2003.10.23[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (23 October) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme". The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Li Gang, Deputy Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR, and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
In celebration of the tenth anniversary of the Scheme, the honorees over the years donated more than 150 of their publications to the PolyU Pao Yue-kong Library. These publications would be stored in the Library in the name of 'Donation from Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars?for PolyU students and staff, further encouraging intellectual exchange on the campus. Prof. Poon, at the presentation ceremony, received the books from the representative of the scholars.
The six distinguished scholars are: Prof. Wang Zhongtuo, Director, Research Centre of Knowledge Science and Technology, Dalian University of Technology; Prof. Ai Xing, Professor, Shandong University; Prof. Wang Erkang, Director, Changchun Scientific Research Centre of Applied Chemistry; Prof. Zhou Xiaoxin, Chief Engineer, China Electric Power Research Institute; Prof. Yao Mu, Professor, Xian University of Engineering Science and Technology; Prof. Chen Junyong, Chairman, Science and Technology Commission, State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping.
During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, will present a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. They will also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics.
Prof. Wang Zhongtuo is a distinguished specialist in systems engineering well-known both on the mainland and abroad. He was awarded with the title of 'National Expert with Great Achievements in Science and Technology?in 1984. Besides, he has also received two national awards and nine other awards from ministries of the Chinese Government. His name is listed in the volume of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering of The Chinese Encyclopaedia. He was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering in 2001.
Prof. Ai Xing is a pioneer in the field of machining and manufacturing engineering. His publication Handbook of Cutting Data, the first volume of its kind on the mainland, has made significant impact on the field of machining and manufacturing engineering. In recognition of his distinguished achievements, he has been given a number of national prizes and awards, such as State Scientific and Technological Progress Prize, State Invention Award, State Teaching Achievement Award. In 1999, he was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
Prof. Wang Erkang specializes in chemistry. He has significant achievements in the fields of analytical chemistry and electrochemistry, and particularly in electro-analytical chemistry, bio-electrochemistry and environmental analysis. Prof. Wang's achievements in 'polarographic studies on complex electrode processes and new methods?and studies in 'electrochemistry at the liquid/liquid interface?won him the First Class Natural Science Award of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1989 and 1990. In 1997, he received the First Prize of the 10th Kharizmi International Festival in Tehran, Iran; and the Innovation Award of the World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva, Switzerland. In 1991, he was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Prof. Zhou Xiaoxin is a renowned power system specialist. In 1985, he was awarded the national prize for Progress in Science and Technology. His book Power System Computation won the first prize for National Best Sellers in 1981. Prof. Zhou was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1993. Prof. Zhou is currently Chief Engineer of the China Electric Power Research Institute; Director of the Department of Engineering and Material Sciences, National Science Foundation of China; Member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese Society for Electrical Engineers (CSEE) and Chairman of the Power Systems Committee of CSSE.
Prof. Yao Mu is a famous educator and leading scholar in the field of textile materials. He has been given national awards in recognition of his introduction of techniques and standards for the testing of textile materials and for the design of a new generation of military clothing. In 1998, the textbook Textile Materials he compiled won him the second prize for Progress in Science and Technology of China's General Association of Textile Industry. This textbook has become an important publication in the field of textiles and garments in China. He was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering in 2001.
Prof. Chen Junyong is a celebrated specialist in geometrical geodesy, geodynamics, satellite geodesy, determination of the height of Mt. Qomolangma and the crustal movement in its surroundings, and he has made contributions to the improvement of the national geodetic datum. Prof. Chen has been awarded several times for his achievements with 'The National Award of Progress in Science and Technology? He was elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1991.
