
[date]2003.09.29[/date]
[title]PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences celebrates 25th Anniversary cum opening of Rehabilitation Clinic[/title]
The Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (29 September) celebrated its 25th anniversary and the opening of its Rehabilitation Clinic in the new site on the campus.
The opening ceremony was officiated at by Dr The Honourable David K.P. Li, Chairman &amp; Chief Executive of The Bank of East Asia, Ltd.; Prof. Lance Twomey, Vice-Chancellor &amp; President, Curtin University of Technology, Australia; Prof. Clifford Brubaker, Dean, School of Health &amp; Rehabilitation Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, US; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President of PolyU; Prof. George Woo, Dean, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, PolyU and Prof. Christina Hui-Chan, Chair &amp; Head, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, PolyU.
Speaking at the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said that the University had witnessed the evolution of the rehabilitation profession over the past few decades. "Being the sole provider of tertiary education for the training of occupational therapists and physiotherapists in the territory, our Department of Rehabilitation Sciences has long been involved in grooming rehabilitation professionals to meet the community's demands," he said.
Over the years, the Department has been actively involved in research projects that are beneficial to the long term development of the rehabilitation professions and services targeted at the well-being of the community. Since 1999, a Centre for East-Meets-West in Rehabilitation Sciences has been set up to explore ways to integrate Western rehabilitation practice with traditional Chinese therapeutics. Its many research studies have since produced research findings that will shape the development of rehabilitation services in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland.
In April 2002, the University invited an independent assessment panel comprising internationally known experts to review its research work in the field. Assessment completed by the panel members concluded that PolyU has reached top, world-class standard in the research area of "East-Meets-West in Rehabilitation Sciences."
After the ceremony, a tour to the Rehabilitation Clinic showed the newly refurbished clinic with multi-faceted facilities. The Clinic provides first class rehabilitation services to the public, including outpatient physiotherapy and traditional Chinese medical services in the area of orthopaedics, neurological rehabilitation and work rehabilitation. It also focuses on health promotion by organizing activities such as Tai Chi class and stress management workshop.
