
[date]2003.09.09[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures entrepreneurial spirit of students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) honoured seven winning teams for their creative and business talent at the award presentation ceremony of the third PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest held on campus yesterday (9 September).
This year, 45 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of more than 140 students competed in four categories, namely, IT and Health Care Products, Telecommunication and Personal Devices, Home Appliances and Toys. After rigorous screening, seven winning teams were selected out of those 25 teams entering the final round of competition.
The contestants were required to formulate and present their business plans which focused on innovative technology or product development, under the guidance of an academic staff for each team. All full-time PolyU students were eligible to join the contest.
PolyU Acting President Mr Alexander Tzang, said, "The University launched the contest in 2001 in an attempt to groom the business minds of PolyU students and encourage them to explore new ideas in innovation and technology."
He added, "Apart from the cash prizes, the winning teams can even be granted the opportunity to receive support and subsidies for further developing their work. Their works may actually be launched in the market through the University's Innovation and Technology Incubation Programme."
Mr Tzang also expressed his sincere gratitude to Mr Raymond Chan, Chairman and CEO of IDT International Limited, who has generously sponsored the contest for three consecutive years. Mr Chan also presented the awards to the winners together with Mr Tzang and PolyU Vice President (Student Development) Prof. Leung Tin-pui.
This year, a total of eight awards were presented to the winning teams at the ceremony. The Diamond Award of Innovation, category winners and first runner-ups each received a plaque, a certificate of merit and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $8,000 respectively. The Diamond Award of Innovation winner was selected among the three category winners who presented their business plans in front of the judging panel during the ceremony. The judging panel included Mr Raymond Chan, Mr Peter Sun, Chairman of Kingdom Fine Metal Ltd., and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development).
The winning entries are listed as follows:
IT and Health Care Products Category
Winner: Baby CAre experT (BabyCAT) (Lai Chun-hang, Kwong Wai-man - Department of Computing; Lam Ka-yan - Department of English)
1st runner-up: Virtual-reality based exercise programmes for rehabilitation on motor skills relearning (Derek Chong Shing-hei, Rosita Au Kwun-ip - Rehabilitation Engineering Centre)
Telecommunication &amp; Personal Devices
1st runner-up: Helpless Messiah (Chan Ka-ho - Department of Marketing and Management; Wan Cho-wah, Mak Tze-yuk, Wong Kwok-yuen - Department of Electronic and Information Engineering)
Home Appliances Diamond Award of Innovation &amp; Category
Winner: MarcoKids (Ho Kin-wing, Leung Hoi-chun, Chang Yang, Hui Chun-pong - School of Design)
1st runner-up: Low cost nitrate remover plus calcium reactor (Bartholomew Iu Ka-chun, Chow Chi-yin, Lam Hoi-kit, Tsui Wah-chung - Department of Computing)
Toys Category
Winner: Drum set simulator for PC (Chim Wai-kin - Department of Electronic and Information Engineering)
1st runner-up: @Music (Lam Ka-wing, Wong Lok-hang, Lau Tsun-may - Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering; Leung Kam-kui - School of Design) 
The judging of presentations were based on five criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technological novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/development plan, and presentation skills.
