
[date]2006.08.07[/date]
[title]SPEED Pre-Associate Degree programme offers progression paths for HKCEE holders[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University yesterday (7 August) released information on the new curriculum and latest developments of its Pre-Associate Degree (Pre-AD) programme to be offered in the academic year 2006/07.
Since the Pre-AD programme inception, there has been a remarkable six-fold increase in student enrollments from 37 students in the 2001/02 intake to 241 students in 2005/06. 
Dr Dennis Chan, Director of SPEED, remarked, "The results of the programme's 2005 graduate survey were very encouraging. Out of the 188 graduates, more than 95 per cent of them continued their full-time study in Hong Kong. Not surprisingly, nearly half of the graduates took the "Yi Tiao Long" progression path offered by PolyU's College of Professional and Continuing Education and enrolled in the Associate Degree programmes of Hong Kong Community College."
The curriculum of SPEED's Pre-AD programme has been reviewed in summer 2006. It offers a wide array of elective subject areas, including 'Accounting', 'General Management', 'Logistics', 'Digital Entertainment', 'Hotel and Catering' and 'Tourism'. In the upcoming academic year, 'Graphics, Advertising and Information Design' as well as 'Leisure, Sports and Recreation' are newly added to the list of subjects. 
It has become more and more common for local students to pursue further studies via the Associate Degree articulation path. With an aim to prepare students for entry into Associate Degree programmes, SPEED's Pre-AD programme not only puts heavy emphasis on indispensable generic language and IT skills, but also equips students with basic knowledge in specialized disciplines according to their own interests.
"To help prepare our Pre-AD students in the transition to college or university life, starting from 2006/07, this programme has particularly built in workshops on 'Skills for College Studies' to be held at PolyU campus. By this, we hope to develop students' positive attitude and skills for future college/university studies and career planning," said Dr Chan.  
SPEED's one-year full-time Pre-AD programme is designed for HKCEE graduates who hold five passes in the HKCEE (including Chinese and English) or those who have satisfactorily completed the Project Yi Jin. The programme is composed of three foundation courses, seven compulsory subjects and four electives. Continuous assessment of students' progress will take place throughout the academic year. 
Application to the programme will be open on 9-16 August 2006. Information seminars will be held on 8 August at 6:30 p.m. and 9-10 August at 3:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. in Room Y305, Core Y, PolyU campus. Enquiry hotline is 3400 2828.
