
[date]2003.06.23[/date]
[title]Press Statement by PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Rehabilitation Sciences yesterday (23 June 2003) organized a press briefing to express its grave concern over the University Grants Committee (UGC)'s drastic cut to the student intake of its degree programmes in physiotherapy (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) and the consequent negative impact on the manpower supply for serving the disabled and the ageing population.
During the briefing, the following statements were made by Prof. Christina Hui-Chan, Chair Professor and Head of the Department, together with Legislative Councillor Mr Michael Mak Kwok-fung; Prof. John Leong Chi-yan, Chairman of the Department's Advisory Committee and President of the International Confederation of Orthopaedics and Traumatology; Prof. Chan Kai-ming, President of the International Federation of Sports Medicine, Ms Polly Lau Mo-yee, President of the Hong Kong Physiotherapy Association, and Mr Samuel Chan, President of the Hong Kong Occupational Therapy Association.
(1) The University was informed by UGC in February that its intake quota for PT and OT programmes have to be further reduced to 60 PT and 40 OT students in 2004/05 ?on top of the previously announced cut in intake from 150 PT and 90 OT students in 1998/99 to 80 PT and 50 OT students in 2003/04. In view of the increasing population base and the ageing population in Hong Kong, these repeated cuts not only present a harsh blow to the two professions, but will also drastically reduce the provision of essential services to those in need. (Please refer to appendix for annual student intake in recent years.)
(2) Since the early 1980s, the University's annual intake for PT programme has never fallen below 80; while the local population has increased from 5.3 million to 7 million over the same period of time. In order to maintain the same PT/OT manning ratio based on the increase in population base alone, the student intake for both programmes should have been increased proportionally rather than reduced.
(3) The societal need is reflected by the fact that most of the large cohorts of PT and OT graduates are enjoying good career prospects, particularly in the private and social services sectors. The findings of 2002 PolyU Graduates Employment Survey revealed that only 1.7 per cent of the 134 PT graduates were still seeking employment six months after graduation, while all 83 OT graduates had either found a job or pursued further studies. The average monthly salary for PT and OT graduates stood at $12,628 and $13,020 respectively.
(4) The ageing population in Hong Kong would lead to an increase in the number of disabled and chronically ill people who require OT and PT services. Moreover, the population in Hong Kong has the longest life span, second only to Japan. The increase in demand for PT and OT services in Hong Kong will therefore be more than that which is due to the increase in population base alone. With further cut in PT and OT student intake in 2004/05, the University's small cohort of graduates will not be able to meet the community's demand in 2007.
(5) As a matter of fact, Hong Kong already has an extremely low PT and OT manning ratio compared to developed countries. According to the 1998 statistics drawn from the United Nations and the World Confederation of Physiotherapy, the ratio of physiotherapists per every 100,000 population is 49.8 for the UK, 48.4 for Australia, 25.1 for Canada, 24.6 for the US. However, the ratio is merely 8.5 for Hong Kong.
(6) With the implementation of Healthcare Reform, the focus of health care is being shifted from the hospitals to community settings. Consequently, the current freeze in the PT and OT posts in the public hospitals is anticipated. However, to help people return to work earlier, insurance companies are willing to support the provision of PT and OT services to lessen the cost of their coverage. This trend in fact happened in the US and Canada in the 1980s. Private practice mushroomed in these countries then, as it is happening in Hong Kong now. For instance, a former PolyU graduate who is working in the private sector has helped a large healthcare service company to set up 10 physiotherapy clinics within a few years' time.
(7) According to a report by the HKU Social Sciences Research Centre, which was commissioned by the Department to survey the "Service Needs of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy in the Emerging Healthcare Market", 171 OT and 114 PT job vacancies were available in the community centres and private clinics and hospitals, and these units planned to employ more therapists in 2003-05. The results of this survey further substantiate the growing market needs for PT and OT services.
(8) Another worth noting factor is that the serving practitioners who were trained in public hospitals in the 1970s will be retiring soon, starting with a reported number of about 10 therapists this year. Proper government planning should ensure that there will be sufficient PT and OT manpower available to replace the shortfall arising from cumulative retirements a few years from now.
(9) China's accession to WTO and her successful bid for the Olympics 2008 are both escalating the country's demand for PT and OT services of the highest international standard. PolyU has already received enquiries from Beijing and Guangzhou on whether a montly salary of RMB 7,000 can attract our graduates to work there. It is anticipated that in just a couple of years, when the terms and conditions are attractive enough, our graduates will move northwards to serve the motherland and work in major cities.
In Hong Kong, PolyU is the sole provider of tertiary education in physical therapy and occupational therapy. In April 2002, the University invited an independent assessment panel comprising world-class experts to review its research work in the field of rehabilitation sciences. Assessment completed by the panel members concluded that PolyU has reached top, world-class standard in a niche area that it has championed: "East-meets-West in Rehabilitation Sciences".
