
[date]2004.03.18[/date]
[title]2nd PolyU Arts Festival ends in style[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s second Arts Festival, under the theme of 'Culture &amp; Creativity: Turning Fantasy into Reality? came to a fruitful close yesterday (18 March) on campus.
Organized by the Culture Promotion Committee and Faculty of Communication, the month-long Festival was launched in mid-February featuring a series of events and competitions on campus including talks, workshops, exhibitions, movie and video appreciations. More than 30,000 participants took part in these cultural activities. The closing ceremony was officiated at by PolyU President, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, member of the Executive and Legislative Council, Mrs Selina Chow, Chairman of Culture Promotion Committee and PolyU Vice President, Prof. Leung Tin-pui.
A highlight of the grand finale was the final judging of the costume design competition for Barbie. This competition, which was specially organized in conjunction with the 45th anniversary of the Barbie brand and with the support from the manufacturer, Mattel, has drawn more than 160 entries from students. Among them, a total of 26 designs were selected for the finale on the catwalk. An additional 28 designs were shortlisted to be part of the exhibition currently being held at the Foyer of Jockey Club Auditorium until 2 April.
Another fascinating competition was the 'Reach for the Sky?Paper Aeroplane Folding Contest which brought participants to a journey of discovery and creativity. The winner, Mr Wu Di who is an exchange student from the mainland, has beaten more than 2,000 contestants by flying a paper aeroplane with the longest distance.
'Fun with Food?Competition was one of the many creative competitions at which students needed to prepare creative recipes and food with a limit to eight ingredients at the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM)'s training restaurant kitchen on campus. The championship went to a year four HTM student, Mr Arthur Lam Tak-sum, who has innovatively prepared a molten chocolate cake stuffed with blueberry, with vanilla ice-cream alongside.
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'With the theme ‘Culture &amp; Creativity: Turning Fantasy into Reality? the Festival has provided wonderful cultural experiences for our students and audiences once again.?br&gt;
The first PolyU Arts Festival was held in 2002. In addition to the regular art and cultural activities held every year, the Festival is organized biennially with an aim to enrich students?campus life and broaden their horizons in various art forms.
