
[date]2003.08.06[/date]
[title]Leading industry experts to speak at PolyU's Convention &amp; Expo Summit[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM), in collaboration with the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, will hold a three-day "Convention &amp; Expo Summit 2003" from 29 to 31 August 2003.
The Summit will bring leading industry experts and scholars to Hong Kong to assess opportunities and challenges the convention and exhibition sectors in Asia are facing, with a particular focus on identifying strategies to revitalize these sectors following the SARS crisis.
Interest in the Summit has been very strong, with registered delegates coming from North America, Europe, Africa and the Asia-Pacific region.
Mr. Alan Orlob, Vice President - Corporate Security, Marriott International; Mr. John M. Daniels, President, Bali Discovery Tours; and Mr. Bert Van Walbeek, a Bangkok-based crisis management expert are among the speakers on the "Crisis Management" panel. Drawing on lessons learned from recent crises such as SARS, the Bali bombings, the September 11 terrorist attacks and the Gulf Wars, they will discuss practices the hospitality industry can adopt in an effort to be proactive in such uncertain times.
The Convention &amp; Expo Summit will also feature more than 30 research paper presentations from around the world and the first meeting of the Academic Council of DOME (Data on Meetings and Events), a joint initiative of several international professional convention industry associations, including the International Congress &amp; Convention Association and the International Association of Convention &amp; Visitor Bureaus.
Among confirmed Summit speakers are also Hong Kong-based industry leaders such as Prof. Kaye Chon, Head of PolyU's HTM; Mr Cliff Wallace, Managing Director, Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre; Mr Michael Duck, Senior Vice President of CMP Asia and Ms Ellen Kwan, General Manager, Tourism Marketing, Hong Kong Tourism Board.
The Summit will take place at the InterContinental Grand Stanford Hong Kong on 29-30 August 2003 and the Hong Kong Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre on 31 August 2003. It is sponsored by Cathay Pacific Airways, Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd., the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre and IMEX.
