
[date]2006.08.24[/date]
[title]PolyU's civil engineering research output ranks first in world[/title]
In the field of civil engineering research, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has not only put engineering knowledge to good practical uses, but has also published a large number of quality research papers in leading international journals.
According to an independent survey, PolyU has been ranked number one in the world on the number of papers published in leading journals from 2003 to 2005 in the field of civil engineering, with a total of 265 publications, followed by Texas A&amp;M University (with 255 papers) and the Indian Institute of Technology (with 252 papers).  
Prof. Ko Jan-ming, Vice-President (Research Development), said, "PolyU has achieved many engineering breakthroughs in recent years. We are proud that our quality researches in civil engineering have been published widely in the world, contributing to the further development of the study. We will make good use of our expertise through active participation in applied researches and major consultancy projects for the government and industry."
The survey was conducted by Thomson Scientific, an established authority in compiling Science Citation Index. It analyzed the total number of papers in the field of civil engineering which were accepted for publication in reputed international journals over the three-year period. 
According to Prof. Li Yok-sheung, Head of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, the survey also examined the total number of citation in the year 2005 with reference to institutional publications between 2003 and 2004. In this particular category, PolyU is ranked second in the world with a total of 105 citations, only marginally behind the University of Illinois in the US (with 110 citations).
In counting the number of cited publications, Thomson Scientific extracted data from 79 international journals in the field. These authoritative publications include the Journal of Hydrology, Coastal Engineering, and the Journal of Structural Engineering, to name but a few.
In Hong Kong, PolyU has been highly successful in winning Competitive Earmarked Research Grant (CERG) for the discipline of "Civil Engineering, Surveying, Building and Construction". For the six consecutive years since 2001/2002, PolyU has been ranked first in both the amount of grants won and the number of projects supported. In 2006/2007, PolyU has been awarded more than $17 million of CERG funding for some 37 new research projects in this particular discipline.
