
[date]2004.06.02[/date]
[title]PolyU's degree and sub-degree programmes invite applications[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is now accepting applications for its 2004/05 full-time and part-time bachelor's degree and sub-degree programmes through non-JUPAS admission. A total of 56 full-time and 40 part-time programmes are open for applications until 16 June.
Two full-time programmes to be offered for the first time are: the three-year UGC-funded Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Medical Laboratory Science and the two-year self-financed Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) in Product Engineering with Marketing.
In addition, seven new part-time programmes will be offered in the coming academic year. They are: Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) in Electrical Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) in Electronic and Information Engineering, Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) in Product Engineering with Marketing, Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health, Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textile Studies comprising three specialisms of study namely Fashion and Textile Design, Fashion and Textile Marketing and Merchandising, and Fashion Retailing.
Currently, PolyU has the largest number of students among all local UGC-funded tertiary institutions. According to the findings of a recent independent survey, PolyU graduates are the most ‘preferred' by employers, with the highest ratings on practical value among local graduates. PolyU's application-oriented programmes also prove to be extremely useful in helping students to secure jobs upon graduation. In general, PolyU students are praised for their quality, professionalism and adaptability.
Applicants can submit their applications on-line at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/admission. They can also obtain application details simply by:
writing to Admissions and Promotions Section, Academic Secretariat, PolyU, Hung Hom, attaching a 14' x 10' self-addressed envelope with postal stamps for HK$16.4
in person at the Academic Secretariat Service Centre, M101, Li Ka Shing Tower, PolyU.
Opening hours of the counter are:
Mondays to Fridays: 9.00 a.m. ' 5.00 p.m.
Saturdays: 9.00 a.m. ' 12.00 noon
Sundays and Public Holidays: Closed
Enquiry Hotline: 2333 0600
