
[date]2004.05.23[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2004/05 full-time degree and sub-degree programmes on campus on Saturday, 29 May.
The Consultation Day provides an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) applicants to obtain in-depth information on PolyU programmes. Applicants are allowed to add new choices and repriortize old choices before the deadline of 31 May 2004. This Consultation Day will help them make the final decision on their programme choices before the JUPAS deadline.
Participants can obtain information on PolyU programmes, admission requirements, contents and career prospects in consultation sessions, seminars, presentations and guided visits during the Consultation Day before making a final decision on their choices. The event will also be a golden opportunity for participants to obtain advice from academic staff and current students of various departments. Careers teachers are also recommended to participate in this event.
PolyU is well-known for its application-oriented programmes which are of internationally recognized standards. It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from higher diploma and bachelor's degree to master's and doctoral degrees. Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textiles, Health Technology, International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy, Radiography, Surveying and Geo-Informatics. A unique double degree programme in Computing and Management is also on offer.
In the 2004/05 academic year, the University will offer 72 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE entry, of which 45 are at degree and 27 at sub-degree levels.
To support the all-round development of secondary students, PolyU has continued to implement the "JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations" and "Non-academic Achievements Self-recommendation Scheme" in this year's admissions exercise. The University will offer a number of scholarships to admittees with outstanding non-academic achievements or HKALE attainments.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the University website: http://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday/.
