
[date]2003.01.05[/date]
[title]Curtain falls for PolyU's 65th Anniversary Celebrations[/title]
With the spirit of solidarity, creativity and charity, members of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have tasted true joy of celebrations by sharing happiness with others. Apart from involving the community at large in its 65th Anniversary Celebrations, PolyU has raised about five millions for the University and the needy.
Last March, PolyU rolled out a series of celebratory activities for the 65th Anniversary with the slogan: ?5 years of education and innovation, 200,000 alumni the pillars of our community? summing up years of achievement made by the University toward Hong Kong over the past years.
Over 60 major and large scale events, ranging from arts festival to homecoming carnival, road shows, lectures by Nobel Laureates, soccer tournament, fashion show, contest and award presentations, international conferences and open house activities were presented by various faculties and departments. They all shared one single aim, that is, to demonstrate the University's on-going search for academic excellence and its commitment to the well being of the community.
Highlight of the year-long celebrations was the university-wide event - Human Rainbow ?which had called upon 11,273 PolyU members to gather at the Hong Kong Stadium on 6 October, to form the world's largest human rainbow.
According to President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, the symbol of rainbow was chosen to represent the University's glorious history and its bright future. It was also a boost to Hong Kong people, encouraging them to stay optimistic despite the gloomy economy.
PolyU's Human Rainbow successfully challenged the world record set five years ago in the United States, under the witness of Mr Tung Chee-hwa, Chief Executive of the HKSAR and the University Chancellor. The meaningful event also raised 1.8 million dollars for the University as well as the Children's Cancer Foundation and The Hong Kong Society for the Aged. A cheque presentation ceremony was held on 4 December to handover the donation.
The 65th Anniversary Celebrations reached its climax with the Gala Dinner held on 1 November at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. The dinner was graced by the presence of Dr Donald Tsang Yam-kuen, Chief Secretary for Administration of the HKSAR and a PolyU honorary graduate. More than 2,000 guests ?both local and overseas - including government officials, university representatives, trade and business partners, friends and families of the PolyU community joined the celebration.
During the evening, alumni of different periods recapitulated their joyful memories at the Institution ?from the Government Trade School (1937-1947) to the Hong Kong Technical College (1947-1972), the Hong Kong Polytechnic (1972-1994) and now The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (1994 - present) ?signifying the four key stages of development of the University.
Over three million dollars were raised in this single event and all proceeds would go to the University's Development Fund and the Student Development Fund.
Deputy President and Executive Chairman of the Steering Committee of the 65th Anniversary Celebrations Mr Alexander Tzang thanked everyone involved for making the year-long celebrations a success. It was the concerted effort and unremitting dedication given by the ardent supporters, members of the Steering Committee, Organising Committee, University departments and offices, alumni associations, student organizations and many other participating groups that together had made the year 2002 a memorable and historic one.
Speaking at a Thank-you Dinner for the 65th Anniversary Celebrations, Prof. Poon concluded, 'The success of the celebrations belongs to all of us. While we are celebrating the growth of the Institution in the past 65 years, we must also plan for the future. Looking ahead, PolyU is dedicated to becoming the preferred University, offering preferred programmes and producing preferred graduates as pillars of the society.?br&gt;
Highlights of the University's Anniversary Celebrations can be viewed at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/cpa/anniversary/news.htm
