
[date]2004.01.14[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour Jackie Chan and stage Asian premiere of 'Dragon' movie[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and sponsor Dr Francis Choi will jointly present 'An Evening with Prof. Jackie Chan"on the eighth day of Chinese New Year (29 January). The festive event is set to add an artistic and glamorous dimension to PolyU's fund-raising efforts.
On that day, the University will confer on international movie star and Hong Kong Tourism Ambassador Dr Jackie Chan Kong-sang the title of Honorary Professor in its School of Hotel and Tourism Management for a term of three years. This conferment will be followed by the gala premiere of the movie Traces of a Dragon ?Jackie Chan &amp; His Lost Family and a dinner party graced by Dr Chan and major sponsors of the event. All net proceeds raised will be contributed to the PolyU Development Fund and Student Development Fund.
Speaking on the gala event, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said: 'The University is pleased to confer on Dr Chan the title of Honorary Professor on Dr Chan in recognition of his outstanding professional achievements as one of the world's most successful movie stars and his many contributions not only to the movie industry, but also to promoting Chinese arts and culture and Hong Kong as a tourist destination in the international community. By appointing Dr Chan as our Honorary Professor, we look forward to having his guidance in the area of student leadership development, guest lectures and advice for our School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
'We are also deeply grateful to Dr Jackie Chan and Jackie &amp; Willie Productions Ltd for their warm support in contributing their wonderful production for our fund-raising.?br&gt;
The movie is screened for the first time in Asia after winning positive acclaim at the Berlin International Film Festival last February. The documentary was directed by award-winning director Ms Mabel Cheung Yuen-Ting and produced by Dr Jackie Chan, Mr Willie Chan and Mr Solon So, with Mr Alex Law as executive producer.
The movie traces the story of Jackie Chan and his lost family, and pieces together the extraordinary childhood that he and his siblings experienced. It conveys the feelings of young children being abandoned by their helpless families during one of the most turbulent periods in Chinese history.
With limited seats still available to the public, the movie will be shown at the Jockey Club Auditorium on PolyU campus and tickets will be sold at its box office at $280 or $180 each starting 19 January. Enquiries can be made by phone on 2766 4883 or by email to alkitty@polyu.edu.hk.
The organizing committee of this festive event is chaired by Mrs Katherine Ngan Yu-ying, Executive Director of May Cheong Toy Products Factory Ltd, and Member of PolyU's Council and Fund-raising Committee.
The University has already received generous support from the following sponsors, to whom its thanks are due (listed in alphabetical order and as of 10 January 2004):
TITLE SPONSOR :
Dr Francis Choi, Chairman of Early Light International (Holdings) Ltd
DIAMOND SPONSORS : 
Golden Electrical Group Kingtronics Industrial Co. Ltd  Lee &amp; Man Paper Manufacturing Co. Ltd May Cheong Toy Products Factory Ltd Mr Danny Ngai PolyU Lifelong Learning Alumni Association  Techtronics Industries Co. Ltd
GOLD SPONSORS : 
Biu Chun Watch Hands &amp; Parts Manufacturers Ltd Dr Chan Sui-kau DBS Bank Gold Peak Group  Kingdom Fine Metal Ltd  Lee Kee Group Man Sang Group  o.d.m.  Renley Watch Manufacturing Co. Ltd
SILVER SPONSORS : 
Mr Benjamin Kwok Chan-yiu Lee Cheong Gold Dealers Ltd  PolyU SPEED 
Dr Chan has been appointed as HK's official Tourism Ambassador since 1995. Over the years, he has taken part in various large-scale activities to promote the image of Hong Kong. In the recent global tourism revival campaign organized by Hong Kong Tourism Board, Dr Chan has played host in television commercial to invite visitors around the world to travel to the territory.
Apart from receiving many prestigious awards from the film industry, Dr Chan's honours include the 1986 Hong Kong Outstanding Young Person's Award, the 1988 International Outstanding Young Person's Award, and an MBE in 1989. In 1992, he was honoured for being the Most Outstanding Young Chinese in the World, and voted the Healthiest Person in Hong Kong. He was conferred the honorary degree of the Doctor of Social Science by the Hong Kong Baptist University in 1996. In 1999, Dr Chan was honoured with a Silver Bauhinia Star (SBS) by the HKSAR Government. 
According to Prof. Kaye Chon, Head of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Dr Chan is not just a hit, but also an inspiration for students. The superstar attracted a full house at the same auditorium at PolyU when he shared his experience of promoting Hong Kong in a talk which kicked off the School's Distinguished Lecture Series of the Hotel and Tourism School.
