
[date]2003.03.21[/date]
[title]PolyU hospitality education ranks top 15 in the world cum opening of its resource centre[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's (PolyU) School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM) was ranked among the world's top 15 prolific hotel schools, according to the authoritative Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Education. PolyU is the only Asian institution on this roll of honour.
The ranking was conducted by two academics in the United States based on a comprehensive analysis of authorship among a total of 61 research and scholarly journals in the field of hospitality and tourism. The latest ranking revealed the fact that HTM's research output is on par with international institutions, like those of the Ivy League. Ranking first on the list is Cornell University of the US, followed by other prestigious institution in Europe and North America.
Announcing the good news at a press reception yesterday (21 March), Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of HTM said, "The new honour is another recognition of our quality of research works and efforts in grooming talents for the hospitality industry in Hong Kong and the region."
The same event also celebrated the opening of the School's newly refurbished Hotel and Tourism Resource Centre, officiated at by Ms Clara Chong, Executive Director of Hong Kong Tourism Board; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of the Faculty of Business and Information Systems and Prof. Kaye Chon.
With a net floor area of 250 square metre, located in Room GH206, the Centre is the only one of its kind in Asia which provides an updated and extensive range of publications, journals, statistical reviews and reference materials for students, researchers as well as trade members. An Archives Room has also been built in the new structure for storing important documents and publications in addition to a separate audio-visual room for private viewing and learning.
The head office of the International Academy for the Study of Tourism and a sub-unit known as the "Hong Kong Sustainable Travel and Tourism Resource Unit" sponsored by the Hong Kong Tourism Board, are also housed under the roof of the Centre.
Appendix
Recent achievements of HTM
2003 - Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of HTM was named the latest winner of the 2003 FTA Hospitality Humanitarian Award. The award was created by the Frederic A. Tibbits and Associates in New York to recognize individual who is a leader in the hospitality field and an active participant in community services.
2002 - HTM became the first institution in Asia to establish a local Chapter of Eta Sigma Delta (ESD) - a prestigious international society that aims to unite institutions with exceptional academic achievement among hospitality and tourism students. ESD is administered by the renowned International Council on Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional education.
HTM was designated by the prestigious International Academy for the Study of Tourism (IAST) as its world headquarters and Secretariat. Being its world headquarters and Secretariat, HTM will provide member services to the Academy and will also receive financial support to establish a resource centre to hospitality and tourism community worldwide.
2001 - Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of HTM was named the first recipient of the University of Delaware Michael D. Olsen Research Achievement Award. The honour was presented to recognize his professional achievements in and long-standing contributions to hospitality and tourism research and education.
1999 - The World Tourism Organisation designated HTM as one of the 16 Education and Training Network Centres around the world. The network was established by WTO to promote quality standard in tourism education and the maximum number of membership has been set at no more than 20. Other prestigious universities on the network include Cornell University and George Washington University in the US and the University of Surrey in the UK. HTM is the only institution in Asia to be awarded such honour.
For more information and opening hours of the Centre, please call 2766 6529 or send an email to hmstella@polyu.edu.hk.
