
[date]2003.12.16[/date]
[title]PolyU wins acclaim for teaching and learning quality[/title]
PolyU wins acclaim for teaching and learning 
                quality
Second Round Teaching and Learning Quality Process 
                Reviews
Panel on Second Round TLQPRs (Membership)
 
PolyU 
              wins acclaim for teaching and learning quality
In the University 
              Grants Committee (UGC)'s latest round of Teaching and Learning Quality 
              Process Review (TLQPR) conducted by a panel of international experts, 
              The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) was highly commended 
              for its untiring efforts in assuring the quality of teaching and 
              learning.
According to 
              the TLQPR Report, PolyU "has made significant progress "in 
              recent years as far as taught programmes are concerned. The Institution 
              was praised "for its general emphasis on Education Quality 
              Work" that is present on campus; and its staff members are 
              "generally enthusiastic and are moving toward a culture of 
              learning, via initiatives and innovations associated with student-centred 
              pedagogies". 
Commenting on 
              the results of this exercise, PolyU Vice President Prof. Leung Tin-pui 
              said, "We are most delighted that our efforts have gained recognition 
              from the Panel as well as the community at large. As acknowledged 
              by the Panel, teaching and learning is taken seriously in PolyU 
              and substantial resources have been committed by the University 
              in teaching and learning." 
The TLQPR Report 
              also said PolyU has "a wide range of structural elements put 
              in place for assuring and improving quality of teaching and learning 
              on campus". These include the annual Business Plan and Quality 
              Report procedures, the Departmental Assessment and Departmental 
              Academic Advisor systems, to name but a few.
To achieve the 
              University's Strategic Objective of "enhancing the all-round 
              development of students", PolyU has committed significant resources. 
              The Panel concluded that "the directions in which PolyU is 
              moving are very appropriate". 
In the realm 
              of postgraduate education, the Panel concluded that "a sound 
              system is in place for the administration of research postgraduate 
              education" at PolyU. The University was commended for its priority 
              given to the supervision of research postgraduate students, and 
              the various elements for supporting this.
The scope of 
              this TLQPR exercise was further extended to encompass three PolyU-affiliated 
              continuing education entities, namely the School of Professional 
              Education and Executive Education (SPEED), the Hong Kong Community 
              College (HKCC), and the Integrated Graduate Development Scheme (IGDS) 
              -- a dual-award programme jointly offered with the University of 
              Warwick. 
Overall, the Panel said the entities concerned have 
              paid attention to the support of teachers, elements of assessment 
              procedures and effectiveness of programme teams. It also commended 
              HKCC for the support given to Associate Degree students and ensuring 
              that they are fully integrated into campus life.
The Panel also commended IGDS for its overall programme 
              design, innovative delivery system and a comprehensive quality assurance 
              system. The Panel noted that PolyU has joint degree awarding authority 
              with its partner institution (the University of Warwick), an authority 
              that has been granted only to PolyU world-wide, and this is a reflection 
              of the status and contribution of PolyU.
In its institutional response statement, PolyU expressed 
              sincerest thanks to the Panel for their valuable suggestions and 
              recommendations for improvement, and the University will "explore 
              these recommendations energetically and vigorously to further enhance 
              the quality initiatives in the Institution". 
Press Contact : Prof. Leung Tin-pui
 Vice President (Student Development)
Tel. : 2766 5208
 Second 
              Round Teaching and Learning Quality Process Reviews
Brief 
              Note for Press Release
 Teaching and 
              Learning Quality Process Review (TLQPR) is an exercise conducted 
              by the UGC to ensure institutions are making continuous efforts 
              in seeking improvements in teaching and learning quality.
 The thrust 
              of TLQPRs is on the processes which assure teaching and learning 
              quality, not on the actual content of the curriculum or teaching 
              and learning methods per se. The Reviews look at whether sufficient 
              and well thought-out processes are put in place to assure teaching 
              and learning quality, and the maturity level of the institutions 
              quality assurance culture.
 The UGC conducted 
              the first round TLQPRs from 1995 to 1997. The first round provided 
              positive stimulus to the institutions to help them focus on teaching 
              and learning, and seek continuous improvement in this area. Both 
              the UGC and the institutions considered that it was necessary to 
              sustain the momentum generated, and therefore agreed that the second 
              round be conducted in the 2001-2004 triennium.
 Like the first 
              round, the second round TLQPRs placed a lot of emphasis on collegiality, 
              with the Consultative Committee (comprising members from all 8 UGC-funded 
              institutions) participating actively in the preparation and actual 
              conduct of the exercise. Strong collegiality is also reflected in 
              the sharing of good practices identified in the exercise among institutions. 
              
 In addition 
              to taught programmes reviewed in the first round, the scope of the 
              second round has been extended to also cover research postgraduate 
              education and continuing education. 
 A 14 people-strong 
              Review Panel, headed by Prof. Rosie Tse-tse Young, a very well-respected 
              local scholar and ex-Chairman of the Education Commission, is formed 
              to undertake the Review. Membership of the Panel can be found in 
              the attachment.
 The Second 
              Round TLQPRs commenced in October 2001. The exercise involved evaluation 
              of institutions' written submissions and visits to institutions. 
              HKU, HKIEd, CUHK, HKBU, HKUST and LU have published their reports. 
              CityU and PolyU, the last two institutions visited by the Review 
              Panel, will release their reports on 16 December 2003, together 
              with their statements of response to the Panel's assessment. 
  
Panel on Second 
              Round TLQPRs
Membership
  Chairman 
                     
 Professor 
                    Rosie Young
 Honorary 
                    Professor, Department of Medicine, The University of Hong 
                    Kong
 Members
 Professor 
                    David Dill
 Professor 
                    of Public Policy Analysis and Education,
                    University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA
 Professor 
                    Roger Geiger
 Professor 
                    of Education, College of Education,
                    Pennsylvania State University, USA
 Professor 
                    Edmond Ko
 Vice-President 
                    (Undergraduate Education) and Dean of Students, City University 
                    of Hong Kong
 Professor 
                    Leung Tin-pui
 Vice-President 
                    (Student and Staff Development), The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
                    University
 Professor 
                    William F Massy
 President, 
                    The Jackson Hole Higher Education Group, USA
 Professor 
                    John Spinks
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor 
                    (Academic and Student Affairs), The University of Hong Kong
 Professor 
                    Joseph Sung
 Chair 
                    Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics 
                    and Chairman of the Research Committee, The Chinese University 
                    of Hong Kong
 Professor 
                    Wee Chow Hou
 Professor 
                    of Strategy, Management &amp; Organisation
                    Chairman, Nanyang Executive Programmes, Nanyang Business School, 
                    Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
 Dr 
                    Don Westerheijden
 Senior 
                    Research Associate, Centre for Higher Education Policy Studies, 
                    University of Twente, the Netherlands
 Professor 
                    Ralph Wolff
 Executive 
                    Director of Senior College Commission,
                    Western Association of Schools and Colleges, USA
 Professor 
                    Danny Wong
 Vice 
                    President (Academic), Open University of Hong Kong
 Dr 
                    David Woodhouse
 Executive 
                    Director, Australian Universities Quality Agency, Australia
 Dr 
                    Anne Wright
 E-Learning 
                    Adviser, ICT Strategy Unit, Department for Education and Skills, 
                    UK
