
[date]2003.02.26[/date]
[title]PolyU honours top students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (26 February) honoured six distinguished students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits at the presentation ceremony of its Outstanding Students Award Scheme.
This year, the award of Most Outstanding PolyU Student went to Mr Chak Kin-keung, a final-year student in Civil and Structural Engineering. He has also been selected the Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use.
The other five awardees, who are all full-time final-year students, are:
Miss Chan Tung-sin, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles
Miss Wu Hang-sang, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Business and Information System 
Miss Lam Sze-lok, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Communication
Miss Zhou Jing, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Engineering
Miss Liem Wai, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences 
Addressing the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, "The University has strategically launched new initiatives to equip our students with knowledge and exposure which could prepare them to meet the challenges of the rapidly-changing environment. The award recipients are brilliant examples of the kinds of talent that the University is striving to nurture."
At yesterday's ceremony, the awardees were each presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000. The names of all awardees have been inscribed on a plaque put up on the PolyU campus.
PolyU's annual Outstanding Student Award is granted on a faculty basis. All full-time final-year students, or full-time students on credit-based courses who have completed two-thirds of the total number of credits required, in any programme of studies leading to PolyU awards, are eligible for nomination.
Each academic department can nominate one candidate, who competes with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. The Most Outstanding PolyU Student is then selected among six awardees, one from each faculty.
The selection of awardees is based on five criteria of equal weighting: academic achievement, leadership, involvement in extra-curricular activities, community service experience and exposure, and personal qualities.
On the same occasion, student and staff winners of the "Beautifying and Landscaping the University Campus Competition" which was held earlier were announced.
