
[date]2003.06.10[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2003/04 full-time degree and sub-degree programmes on campus on Saturday, 14 June.
The Consultation Day is arranged for those Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) applicants who might want to reprioritize their choices of programmes after the announcement of Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) results in July. In accordance with JUPAS application procedures this year, after the release of HKALE results on 4 July, applicants can reprioritize their programme choices from 5 to 7 July.
Participants can obtain information on PolyU programmes, admission requirements, contents and career prospects in seminars, presentations and guided visits during the Consultation Day before making a final decision on their choices. The event will also be a golden opportunity for participants to obtain advice from academic staff and current students of various departments. Careers teachers are also recommended to participate in this event.
PolyU is well-known for its application-oriented programmes which are of internationally recognized standards. It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from higher diploma and bachelor's degree to master's and doctoral degrees. Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textile Studies, Health Technology, International Shipping, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy, Radiography, Surveying and Geo-Informatics. A unique double degree programme in Computing and Management is also on offer.
In the 2003/04 academic year, the University will offer 72 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE entry, of which 44 are at degree and 28 at sub-degree levels.
To support the all-round development of secondary students, PolyU has continued to implement the "JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations" and "Non-academic Achievements Self-recommendation Scheme" in this year's admissions exercise. The University will offer a number of scholarships to admittees with outstanding non-academic achievements or HKALE attainments.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the University website: http://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/Consultation_Day/
Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the event. Details are as follows:
Date: 14 June 2003 (Saturday) (To be postponed to 21 June in case of bad weather) 
Time: 1.00 p.m. - 6.00 p.m.
Venue: PolyU Campus
