
[date]2009.09.21[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Day[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Day this Saturday (26 September) on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on the full-time undergraduate and higher diploma programmes. PolyU's campus and facilities, as well as the Student Residential Hall, will be open to secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public.
The Education Info Day aims at helping prospective students make their choice of study. The event provides JUPAS applicants and other visitors with detailed information about the characteristics, strengths and achievements of PolyU's various departments and schools through exhibitions, seminars, demonstrations and guided visits. 
Academic staff and student ambassadors will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students. Furthermore, performances, stall games and other attractions will be staged to make the Info Day lively and vibrant. 
To give prospective applicants in-depth details of the University's programmes, nearly 90 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by its various academic departments. Topics of the seminars include: 'The Exciting Fashion and Textiles Industry', 'Managing and Marketing in a Challenging Era', 'The New Geomatics: Satellites, Google and Wi-Fi Shopping', 'Integration of Engineering knowledge into the Society', 'English Studies for the Professions', 'Education for the 21st Century Social Workers', 'The Importance of Design to the Future of Creative Economies and Getting into one of the World's Top Design Schools' and 'Ride the Asian Wave to Become a Hotel and Tourism Industry Professional'. 
Other highlights of the event include: visit to the House of Innovation, where many PolyU's award-winning research projects are displayed, and the Industrial Centre, where advanced equipment will be introduced; and performance by PolyU's outstanding sports teams, Student Union's Region, to name but a few.
The PolyU Education Info Day will be open from 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. For more details, please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Day:
Date :   26 September (Saturday) Time :   9:30 a.m. ' 6:00 p.m. Venue  :  PolyU Campus
