
[date]2010.01.19[/date]
[title]PolyU students integrate professional knowledge with community services[/title]
About 900 students and staff of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have collaborated with over 50 non-governmental organizations to render their expertise and knowledge to various sectors of the community by participating in the 2008/09 Community Service Learning Programme.
The programme was organized by Student Affairs Office together with 25 academic departments. Students are encouraged to develop their social commitment and responsibility by serving the community with their professional knowledge. Since its launch in 2004, some 5,800 students and staff have joined hands to serve more than 300,000 people in need in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas.
A special ceremony was held today (19 January) on the university campus in honour of those exemplary community service projects. Out of the 56 nominations, 19 projects were selected for their outstanding performance. The awards were presented to the students by Mr Chan Tze-ching, Consultant to the Bank of East Asia and PolyU Council Member, and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "Within the PolyU community, other than the pursuit of academic excellence, other than research and innovations, we also need to have a heart to serve. We will continue to love and care for others, to serve our community, and to make the world a better place."
One of the overall winning projects came from the Department of Computing. Students from the department embarked on various projects to help support the Jubilee Cares Primary School, a primary school for orphans in Gansu Province. Despite the threat of Swine Human Flu, they went on a service trip to Gansu in June 2009. They, among other things, developed a computer system to automate the management of books in the school library, conducted IT training for the teachers, and maintained and expanded the school's IT network infrastructure. Another group of students from the School of Optometry reaped the award by conducting vision screening for and promoting personal hygiene to over 1,300 primary and secondary school students in Tengxian, Guangxi. Those with eyesight problems were prescribed free spectacles.
Among the meaningful projects included the one from the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics (LSGI). Four students from LSGI made use of the Global Positioning System to produce a user-friendly map with photos on a farm of Guangzhou Huiling, a welfare agency in Guangdong Province, and upload it to Google. Using the knowledge of IT, the students designed an official website for the agency and created an entry on Huiling in Wikipedia. All these helped to raise the agency's visibility.
Today's ceremony also marked the beginning of the Exhibition on Community Service Learning Projects which is held from now until 1 February on the university campus. The Exhibition displays many meaningful projects launched in the past year.
