
[date]2008.05.19[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organize a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2008/09 full-time degree and sub-degree programmes on campus this Saturday, 24 May.
The Consultation Day will provide an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) applicants to obtain in-depth information on PolyU programmes. Applicants are allowed to add and reprioritize their JUPAS programme choices before the deadline of 26 May 2008. This Consultation Day will help them finalize their decision on programme choices before the JUPAS deadline.
On the day, academic departments will offer consultation sessions, information seminars, and guided visits. Also, admissions staff will answer queries and discuss with JUPAS applicants the strategy for programme selection, and provide information on the calculation of admission scores, tactics for programme reprioritization and scholarships for JUPAS admittees. In addition, Student Ambassadors will share their experiences of programme selection and study placements with JUPAS applicants. This year, a special talk on interview skills will be organized and Student Ambassadors will conduct mock admission interviews with interested students.
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, will also join the Consultation Day to give detailed information on self-financed Associate Degree Programmes and Higher Diploma Programmes to secondary seven students and other interested parties. HKCC will accept on-the-spot application and interview to these programmes.
PolyU is well-known internationally for the application value of its education.  It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma and Bachelor's Degree to Master's and Doctoral Degrees.  Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textiles Studies, Geomatics, International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Medical Laboratory Science, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy and Radiography.
In the 2008/09 academic year, the University will offer a total of 60 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE/HKASL entry, including 42 at degree and 18 at sub-degree levels.
In line with PolyU's objective of promoting all-round education, the University will continue to implement the 'Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations', 'Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme' and 'Non-Academic Achievements Self Recommendation Scheme' in this year's admissions exercise.  In addition, PolyU offers Scholarship Schemes for students with outstanding academic or non-academic achievements. For details of the Scholarship Schemes, please visit http://www28.polyu.edu.hk/aseprospectus/jsp/fees.jsp.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the PolyU website:   https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday2008
Invitation
Members of the media are welcome to attend and cover the event.  Details are as follows:
Date  : 24 May 2008 (Saturday)Time  : 1:00 p.m. ' 6:00 p.m.Venue  : PolyU Campus
If typhoon signal no. 8 (or above) or rainstorm black warning is in force at 11:00 a.m. on the day, the event will be rescheduled to 31 May 2008 (Saturday).
 
