
[date]2003.11.11[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes advanced programme for hospitality industry[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Hotel and Tourism Management (HTM), in collaboration with the Hong Kong Hotels Association, will jointly offer a new executive training programme for the hospitality industry from 27 to 31 January 2004.
Combining the theories with practical experiences, this advanced hotel management Programme run by The Hong Kong Winter School is targeted at senior executives from hospitality industry who wish to sharpen their own skills and add value to their organizations. By attending the programme, participants can also keep abreast of the latest developments in service industry and other management issues.
During the five-day course, this School will cover a wide range of topics including human resources management, service management, administration and strategies, communications, crisis management and sales and marketing, etc.
Following last year's success, the School is held for the second year. Positive comments were received from past participants. Most of them found that the programme helped them refresh hotel knowledge and allowed them to gain new information from the respected and highly experienced lecturers. The programme also provided them plenty to think about with regard to further developing the business and enhancing their image in the competitive market.
Prof. Kaye Chon, Chair Professor &amp; Head, HTM, PolyU is among the speakers. Renowned academics and industry leaders from University of Nevada, Las Vegas, The Pennsylvania State University are also invited to speak on various topics.
The School is supported by The Ritz-Carlton Hong Kong, JW Marriott Hong Kong, The Peninsula Hotels, Pacific Asia Travel Association, World Tourism Organisation and Hotel Asia Pacific.
The Programme is now open for registration. For enquiries, please contact Mr Tony Tse of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at 2766 4032 or visit http://www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/main_update.htm.
