
[date]2003.10.08[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Day[/title]
The Education Info Day of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which will be held this Saturday (11 October), is set to attract a big crowd of prospective applicants to the university campus.
With the theme "Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU" this large-scale event will give participants first-hand information on the University's full-time degree and sub-degree programmes as well as other significant developments. The University campus and its facilities will be open for visit. Secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public are welcome to join the event.
To help prospective students make their choice of study, two "'Admission Tips" sessions will be held at the University's Jockey Club Auditorium to give them advice on the admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders. In addition, Student Ambassadors and staff of the Academic Secretariat will be available at the "Admission Chat Box" to answer queries related to admission matters and to provide consultation especially to Form 7 students. Student Ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with participants.
PolyU is well-known for its wide variety of application-oriented programmes which students can apply according to their interests. To give prospective applicants in-depth details of its programmes, over 50 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organised by the University's various academic departments on the event day. Topics of the information seminars include: "The Exciting Fashion and Textile Industry", "Prepare Yourself for a Challenging Career in Hotel, Catering and Tourism Industry", "Is Building and Real Estate My Best Choice", "Pursuing Studies and Careers in IT".  There will also be seminars on the study of biotechnology, engineering, business and management, logistics, design, health technology and nursing, providing students with an invaluable opportunity to increase their understanding of different subjects.
Apart from the seminars, PolyU Education Info Day also includes exhibitions, video shows, demonstrations and campus tours.
Special programmes include the visit to the "House of Innovation" where PolyU's many outstanding research projects such as the Mars Rock Corer which has been carried by the European Space Agency spacecraft to unlock the mystery of exobiology on Mars this June, eco-bricks and nano-technology materials, are displayed.
There will also be guided tours to the Student Halls of Residence which is situated in Hung Hom Bay Reclamation Area near the campus. It provides a total of 3,004 places to PolyU students.
Visitors will be welcome to tour facilities such as the Library, Industrial Centre, Optometry Clinic, language centres, laboratories and other communal and sports facilities. In addition, stall games and performances by staff and students will be staged to give participants a taste of the vibrant life in PolyU.
The University's programmes are offered by 26 academic departments grouped under six Faculties: Applied Science and Textiles; Business; Communication; Construction and Land Use; Engineering; and Health and Social Sciences.
PolyU is the sole provider of full-time honours degree programmes in the following areas: design, engineering physics, fashion and textiles, health technology, occupational therapy, optometry, physiotherapy, radiography, international shipping and transport logistics, surveying and geo-informatics.
For more details on the PolyU Education Info Day, please visit its official website at URL: http://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/infoday.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Day:
Date: 11 October (Saturday) 
Time: 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Venue: PolyU podium
