
[date]2010.01.15[/date]
[title]Over 340 PolyU staff honoured for loyal service[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (15 January) presented Long Service Awards to a total of 345 staff members in appreciation of their loyal service to the Institution over the years. Officiating at the ceremony was PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. Addressing at the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "On behalf of the University, I would like to express my sincere appreciation and congratulations to each and every recipient. It is their collective efforts which have helped realize the most impressive progress of PolyU." A highlight of the ceremony was the presentation of the Long Service Award to former Deputy President and Council Secretary Mr Alexander Tzang, who has served PolyU for 15 years and just retired on 31 December 2009. Mr Tzang will continue to provide advice and service to the University in his new capacity as Senior Advisor to the President. Mr Tzang joined the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in May 1994 as Associate Director to take charge of the areas of industrial development, corporate communications and external relations. He has been the driving force for the University's successful management upgrade and business process re-engineering exercise as well as other key initiatives. As Chairman of the Strategic Planning Committee, he was also instrumental in formulating the University's first Strategic Plan for the years 2001-2007. He was appointed Deputy President in May 2000. This year PolyU is also presenting for the first time the Long Service Award to 20 dedicated staff members who have been serving the Institution for 35 years. Other honorees included 159 who have served for 15 years, 84 have served for 20 years, 43 for 25 years, and 39 for as long as 30 years. They each received a certificate and a souvenir from Professor Tong as a token of appreciation from the University.  The Long Service Award scheme was introduced in 1990 to foster a sense of belonging among university staff members. The award presentation ceremony also provides a warm gathering for the long-serving staff and an opportunity for the University to publicly acknowledge their years of dedication and devotion.
