
[date]2006.08.14[/date]
[title]PolyU and HUST jointly hold Graduation Ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) will jointly send forth the first cohort of graduates of the Master's degree programme in Physical Therapy (MPT) at a special graduation ceremony to be held in Wuhan, Hubei Province, on 17 August (Thursday).
This pioneering programme is the first of its kind on the Chinese mainland and the only one accredited by the State Council's Academic Degree Committee. It is currently offered by PolyU in Wuhan in collaboration with the Tongji Medical College of HUST.  PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong will preside over the graduation ceremony and confer the PolyU award upon the first batch of 34 graduates.
The MPT programme was launched in 2004 with a HK$2.8 million grant from the Hua Xia Foundation and a substantial donation from the Mission Hills Group. Mr Frank Pong has also provided scholarships for outstanding students of the programme.
It is also the first time that PolyU is holding a graduation ceremony beyond the territory of Hong Kong. A PolyU delegation will be attending the ceremony. Led by Prof. Poon, the delegation members include Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Prof. Chetwyn Chan, Head of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences.
Prof. Poon said the success of this programme is another testimony of PolyU's long-term commitment for grooming professional manpower for Hong Kong and the motherland. He also expressed his gratitude to Dr David Chu Shu-ho, Chairman of Mission Hills Group; the Hua Xia Foundation and Mr Frank Pong for generously supporting this programme since its inception; and to HUST for providing administrative support and arranging clinical placements for students.
"Physiotherapy is a relative new discipline in the mainland and there is a huge demand for quality therapists across the country. Moreover, as China will play host to the Olympics Games to be held in Beijing in 2008, there will be an increasing demand for therapists of the highest international standard," he said.
Dr Margaret Mak, MPT Programme Leader and Associate Professor of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, said the programme provides a valuable opportunity for educating Master entry-level physiotherapy practitioners who are capable of engaging in a critical and reflective approach to their practice.
The vigorous programme consists of 76 credits that are covered in six terms. The credits are further divided into 20 foundation credits, 38 professional credits and 18 clinical credits. The curriculum is designed to allow students to acquire foundation knowledge before taking the professional subjects. In addition, the inclusion of specialised clinical practices provides students with integrated clinical education opportunities.
The first batch of 34 graduates comprises physicians, nurses and practicing rehabilitation therapists.  All graduates are employed and the majority of them have taken up clinical or teaching positions. They will provide evidence-based physiotherapy services to a full spectrum of patients in hospitals, rehabilitation centres, special schools or other settings on the Chinese mainland as well as educate future generation of physiotherapists. 
Earlier in June 2006, PolyU and HUST have renewed their collaboration agreement for the continuation of this highly acclaimed programme. The third intake of students will start their study in March 2007.
With a total enrolment of nearly 1,700 in some 30 programmes, out of which 17 are approved by the State Council's Academic Degree Committee, PolyU is now offering the largest number of accredited programmes on the Chinese mainland among all of the universities in Hong Kong and overseas.
