
[date]2010.01.28[/date]
[title]PolyU raises $1 m on the green[/title]
The "PolyU Sa Sa Invitation Golf Tournament" was successfully held last Friday (22 January) in Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan. More than 60 teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, PolyU alumni and friends gathered together for the fun-filled event which has raised over $1 million for the University.
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong thanked all parties involved for making the event possible. He said, "The tournament, organized for the seventh year, has brought the University's friends and alumni together to go beyond just having a friendly match by supporting PolyU's vision in nurturing professionals for the community and the country. Over the years, we are most privileged to enjoy the tremendous support from various sectors of the society in realizing our vision."
After a round of golf, the pioneer team awards "Trade Association Cup" and "Company Cup" went to The Professional Validation Centre of Hong Kong Business Sector and Shing Hin Catering Group respectively while the individual award "Alumni Cup" went to Mr Anthony Leung.
Title sponsored by Sa Sa International Holdings Limited, the tournament was organised by a Committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Patrick Luk, Managing Director of Legend Jewelry. Other members of the Organising Committee included Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; and Mr Kenneth Ting Woo-shou, University Court member.
Apart from raising funds for the University, the event helps to promote friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters. The net proceeds will be contributed towards the construction of the new student hostel in Homantin to cope with the increased number of exchange students and accommodation needs arising from the four-year curriculum.
