
[date]2003.03.24[/date]
[title]PolyU to host Hong Kong's first symposium on research &amp; development in railway engineering[/title]
The Department of Electrical Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will host Hong Kong's first "Symposium on Research and Development in Railway Engineering - Asia-Pacific" on the University campus from 31 March to 1 April 2003. It is anticipated that over 120 participants from the United Kingdom, Singapore, Macau and the Mainland will attend this Symposium.
The Symposium aims to provide a local forum for the exchange and dissemination of technical information among academics and practicing engineers in the field. Discussions of this Symposium will be focused on recent researches and industrial projects of railway systems and related technological development.
A number of prominent leaders in railway engineering have also been invited as speakers of the Symposium. They include Mr Hartmut Heine, Director and Chief Representative of ThyssenKrupp AG and Transrapid International GmbH &amp; Co. KG Beijing, who has made a name for himself for successfully concluded the world's first commercial contract for Transrapid demonstration-line between Pudong International Airport and the downtown of Shanghai in China. The local railway industry is also well represented in the Symposium. Mr. Lee Kang-kuen, Director of East Rail Extensions, KCRC; Mr. Ian Thoms, Director of West Rail KRCR and Mr. Andrew McCusker, General Manager of Operations for MTRCL, are among the speakers. Prof. Sun Guangsheng from Ningbo University, also the Deputy Director of Maglev Office, Science and Technology Bureau, Ministry of the High-Tech and Mr Lu Guanglin, General Manager of Guangzhou Metro are also invited as speakers of the Symposium.
In this two-day symposium, it will cover topics on "Railway Development in Asia Pacific", "Current Technology Development in Railway Applications" and "Railway Research Centres/Programs".  Speakers will share their experience in running the railway systems in their corporations. A fruitful exchange of views and valuable professional advices is expected during this two-day Symposium.
For more information of the symposium or details of registration for local delegates, please write an email to eetkho@polyu.edu.hk or visit the web site at http://www.ee.polyu.edu.hk/railway/railway.html.
