
[date]2004.04.16[/date]
[title]PolyU index indicates that Hong Kong people are optimistic about residential property market[/title]
Hong Kong people are optimistic about the future of the residential property market, according to the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" launched by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Ranging from a scale between 0 and 1,000, with 500 as neutral, a BRE index of below 500 is deemed negative and positive for over 500. According to the latest survey conducted in March 2004, the BRE Index stood evidently above neutral at 556, indicating a positive outlook for the residential property market.
The BRE Index is a statistical pointer on the level of public confidence on the residential property market, initiated by researchers of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) including Dr Eddie Hui, Prof. Bill Seabrooke, Prof. Francis Wong and Dr Chiang Yat-hung. The project is a joint collaboration among the Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) of PolyU, Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) and Texas A&amp;M University (TAMU).
Dr Eddie Hui, Principal Investigator and Associate Professor of BRE, said, 'The optimistic outlook on the residential property market can be explained by the improved economic climate, lower unemployment rate and the Government's measures in reviving the property market."
Prof. Francis Wong, Deputy Director of RCCREE and Associate Head of BRE, said the BRE Index will be released regularly, with an aim to capture over time the percentage change in expectations on local residential property market.
'The Index can be used to forecast future price trends and gauge the level of public confidence on residential market. It is a comprehensive and powerful index which reflects the level of market confidence", he said.
To formulate the Index, quarterly surveys have been undertaken since June 2003, with the assistance of HKBU through telephone interviews on local homeowners and non-homeowners.
Three surveys have been conducted, including one pilot survey in November 2003 and two full-scale surveys in December 2003 and March 2004. Each of the two groups was further divided into three cohorts: those considering purchase, conditional purchasers and non-buyers. An overall BRE Index was then compiled. About 12,000 contacts were made in each survey, targeting at 1,000 successful interviews. Interview questions were identical in each survey so that comparisons could be made over time and across groups of respondents.
Under the BRE Index, a specific index can also be produced for a particular cohort. It is indicated that home owners, as well as respondents with higher education and income levels, were more positive about the market outlook. Homeowners' confidence index has risen from 571 in the pilot run in November to 579 in December 2003, and further to 581 in March 2004. They also expected that residential property prices would rise in the short term.
The BRE Index will be released regularly by the RCCREE. Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about RCCREE, please visit its Website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm.
