
[date]2007.05.21[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2007/08 full-time degree and sub-degree programmes on campus on Saturday, 26 May.
The Consultation Day provides an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) applicants to obtain in-depth information on PolyU programmes. Applicants are allowed to add new choices and reprioritize old choices before the deadline of 28 May 2007. This Consultation Day will help them make the final decision on their programme choices before the JUPAS deadline.
Academic departments will offer programme counselling and hold information seminars for JUPAS applicants. In the Info Seminars 'Strategy for Programme Selection', our admissions staff will answer queries and discuss with JUPAS applicants the strategy for programme selection, and to provide information on the calculation of admissions scores, tactics for programme reprioritization and scholarships for JUPAS admittees. In addition, Student Ambassadors will share their experiences of programme selection, admissions interviews and study placements with JUPAS applicants.
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, will also join the Consultation Day to give in-depth information on self-financed Associate Degree Programmes to secondary seven students or other interested parties.
PolyU is well-known internationally for its application-oriented programmes. It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma and Bachelor's Degree to Master's and Doctoral degrees. Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textiles Studies, Geomatics, International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Medical Laboratory Science, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy and Radiography.
In the 2007-08 academic year, the University will offer a total of 58 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE/HKASL entry, including 40 at degree and 18 at sub-degree levels.
In line with PolyU's objective of promoting all-round education, the university will continue to implement the "JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations", "Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme" and "Non-academic Achievements Self Recommendation Scheme" in this year's admission exercise. In addition, PolyU has introduced Scholarship Schemes for students with outstanding academic or non-academic achievements. For details of the Scholarship Schemes, please visit http://www18.polyu.edu.hk/e-prospectus/ft/fees.jsp.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the University website: www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday2007.
Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the event. Details are as follows:
Date:    26 May 2007 (Saturday) Time:   1.00 p.m. - 6.00 p.m.Venue:  PolyU Campus
If typhoon signal no.8 (or above) or rainstorm black warning is in force at 11:00 am on the day, the event will be rescheduled to 2 June 2007 (Saturday).
