
[date]2005.06.27[/date]
[title]PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences presents its first Outstanding Alumni Award[/title]
The Department of Applied Social Sciences (APSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University earlier held a dinner at the Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association to bring together alumni of different generations, friends and supporters from the welfare and pre-primary education sectors and to present its first Outstanding Alumni Awards to six distinguished alumni.During the dinner, APSS and its Graduates Association presented its first Outstanding Alumni Awards to the following alumni in honour of their outstanding achievement and services to the welfare and pre-primary sectors:Ms Bessie Ho Wai-ha, 2002 graduate of Higher Diploma in Pre-primary Education, is now Senior Officer, Po Leung Kuk. With 28 years of experience in the pre-primary education field, Ms Ho has immense contribution on enhancing the quality of the pre-primary education of children from poor families. She also plays an important role in improving the pedagogy and curriculum for pre-primary students. Mr Lai Chi-tong, 1977 graduate of Certificate in Social Work, is now Chief Executive of Aberdeen Kaifong Welfare Social Service Center. Since his graduation, Mr Lai has been working in the Center for over 30 years. Being an experienced social worker, Mr Lai has rendered his efforts in training community leaders to better suit the needs of society. Dr Lo Tit-wing, 1976 graduate of Certificate in Social Work, is now Associate Professor of the Department of Applied Social Studies of the City University of Hong Kong. Dr Lo is the first academic in the Department who has obtained a PhD degree from the Cambridge University of the UK. With his wealth of experience in youth work, Dr Lo established CityU Youth Studies Net to enhance the service network among the local youth. Mr Joseph Man Hung-yee, 1987 graduate of Bachelor of Social Work, is now Corporate Development Director of Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui Welfare Council. With his 18 years of services in the Council, Mr Man focuses on humanistic work in the social welfare sector. Mr Man's achievement also includes his voluntary work in various cities of the mainland. Mr Tik Chi-yuen, 1991 graduate of Bachelor of Social Work (Hons.), is now Executive Director of Hong Kong Society for the Aged. Mr Tik's contribution in creating a culture of collaboration between parents and schools has received recognition in the field. Apart from his prominent achievement in the field, Mr Tik shows his concern to the public by serving in various Government committees. Ms Jessie Yu Sau-chu, 2005 graduate of Master of Arts in Social Work, is now Chief Executive of Hong Kong Single Parents Association. Having come from a single-parent family, Ms Yu has made herself a good example in easing the hardship faced by most of the families of her kind. Ms Yu has received numerous awards from the Government and other social welfare associations in both Hong Kong and the mainland. The dinner, attended by over 400 alumni and friends of APSS, was graced by the presence of distinctive guests including Mr Yau Chun-ying, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Tsim Sha Tsui District Kaifong Welfare Association; Mr So Chung-ping, Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Association and Mr Wang Qing-fang, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in HKSAR. They were accompanied by Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) and Prof. Angelina Yuen Tsang, Head of APSS.
