
[date]2003.12.15[/date]
[title]PolyU-made space tool set for festive landing[/title]
The European Space Agency (ESA)'s spacecraft carrying the rock sampling tool jointly developed by a local dentist and leading engineers from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) onboard has nearly completed its six-month interplanetary journey, and is now advancing at full speed towards Mars.
According to ESA, the Mars Express spacecraft will soon eject the Beagle2 Lander with its PolyU-made Mars Rock Corer on 19 December. The Lander will then twirl towards the planet and descend through the Martian atmosphere, during which a pre-designed heat shield will protect it while it is being slowed down by friction. Nearer to the surface of Mars, parachutes will be automatically deployed and large gas-filled bags will inflate to cushion the final touchdown on 25 December.
If the mission goes as planned, the Beagle2 will land on a flattish basin in the low northern latitudes on Mars. Once the landing is confirmed, the Beagle2 will send a pre-set telemetry signal to the ESA ground station in Perth, Australia. The signal will then be relayed to the engineers and spacecraft controllers manning the Mars Express Control Centre of the European Space Operations Centre in Darmstadt, Germany. Upon confirmation, the Mars Rock Corer onboard will then become the first Chinese made instrument to touch the soil of a planet outside the Earth.
As soon as the Beagle2 arrives safe and sound on the surface of Mars, its solar panel will be deployed to gather a few hours of sunlight to recharge its battery. In the month that follows, it will embark on a series of scientific testing using the Mars Rock Corer and other instrument onboard to unravel the mystery of life on the Red Planet.
The Mars Express spacecraft was launched on 3 June 2003 using a Russian Soyuz-Fregat launcher from ESA's Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.
Development of Mars Rock Corer
The PolyU-made sampling tool, known as the Mars Rock Corer, has been considered the most important tool to help unlock the mystery of exobiology on the planet as it will be the first ever tool to drill into the surface of Mars.
The project is the joint effort of a 12 member team led by five Principal Investigators Dr Ng Tze-chuen, a dentist and a University Fellow of PolyU, Dr Chris Wong Ho-ching, Prof.Yung Kai-leung and Mr Yu Chun-ho of PolyU; and Mr Chan Chiu-cheung, an independent engineer. The Corer was produced by skilled engineering staff using state-of-the-art facilities at the PolyU Industrial Centre. Prof. Yang Chen-ning, Nobel Laureate in Physics, is the Scientific Advisor of the project (Please refer to the Appendix for the full list of team members).
The development of the Mars Rock Corer and its predecessor the Space Holinser Forceps has come a long way. The Holinser Forceps, originated from a pair of dental forceps, were developed by PolyU engineers from a concept initiated by Dr Ng. The idea was developed into the Space Forceps System which consists of 70 inter-connectable components for used by astronauts in Space. In 1995, four sets of Holinser Forceps were ordered by the Russian Space Agency for use by astronauts in precision soldering at the then MIR Space Station.
Following their initial success, the team further ventured into interplanetary sampling and developed the multi-functional Mars Rock Corer which can grind, drill, core and grip rock samples, with energy consumption as low as two watts and weighs 370 grams only - much lighter and energy-efficient than other similar instruments.
The device has cleverly integrated characteristics of Chinese chopsticks into the design for effective retrieval of samples from inside of rocks. The device has eventually been accepted by the ESA, leading to Hong Kong's involvement in the Mars Express Mission.
The Mars Express Mission comprises a number of essential components including an orbiter and the Beagle 2 Lander where the Mars Rock Corer and other scientific instruments are installed. The orbiter will deploy the Lander on the Martian surface and stay in its orbit for sub-surface water search. The Lander will then serve as a relay station for a series of remote sensing experiments to shed new light on the Martian atmosphere and its geology. As a main task of the Mars Express Mission is to search for signs of life in the rocks of the planet, the Mars Rock Corer could therefore become the first instrument to encounter life on a planet outside the Earth.
For more information about the Mars Express Mission, the Beagle 2 Lander and the Mars Rock Corer, please visit the website of ESA at www.sci.esa.int, www.beagle2.com and www.hkmars.net.
