
[date]2006.06.19[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes Logistics Research Centre[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently established a Logistics Research Centre (LRC) to spearhead inter-disciplinary research projects in this important area. The Centre will not only undertake applied research in logistics but also provide consultancy and training services to related industries.
Headed by Professor Chung-Lun Li of Department of Logistics, the Centre comprises more than a dozen researchers within the department as well as academics from other PolyU academic units, including those from the Departments of Management and Marketing, Applied Mathematics, Industrial and Systems Engineering, and Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, and the Institute of Textiles and Clothing.
According to Prof. Li, LRC is established as a niche area of the University with support from PolyU's Areas of Strategic Development scheme. LRC will endeavour to scale new heights in logistics research and deliver values to industry partners. It will also facilitate two-way communications, between academia and industry in Hong Kong as well as in the greater China, through promoting logistics management research and thus helps ensure the industry's sustainable growth.
In pushing ahead with logistics research, LRC team members will contribute their respective expertise on different aspects of logistics, including e-business, maritime logistics, optimization, production management, purchasing, quality management, supply chain management and transportation logistics.
The Centre has already started working on several major projects; the first one being a two-year collaboration with a container depot. This project seeks to develop a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)-based management support system to reduce the queuing time of container truckers and alleviate traffic congestion.
"This $2 million project is jointly supported by the sponsor and the University. The results will not only benefit the container depot business and the logistics industry but also the community at large," said Prof. Li.
In addition, the LRC research team has recently completed a study on improving supply chain management for a hotel chain in the Mainland. Other large-scale projects underway include the development of a real-time intelligent vehicle tracking and logistics decision support system and the application of geographic information systems technology for fleet management.
Another major initiative is the hosting of the "International Conference on Greater China Supply Chain and Logistics", to be held in December this year. Besides, LRC will provide consultancy services and organise international collaborations, seminars and conferences for the industry.
A pillar of the local economy, the logistics industry currently accounts for 5.4 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product and employs 198,400 people in Hong Kong. It is a major contributor to the economic development to not only Hong Kong but also the Pearl River Delta region and China at large.
