
[date]2003.03.27[/date]
[title]"Wellness in Action" at PolyU[/title]
With an aim of promoting holistic and preventive health care among its students and staff, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is holding a large-scale campus-wide programme, "Wellness in Action", for students and staff from 27 March to 12 April.
The three-week programme was kicked off yesterday (27 March) with a ceremony officiated at by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, Prof. York Chow Yat-ngok, Chairman of the Hong Kong Sports Association of the Physically Disabled and Mr Benny Cheung, PolyU alumnus and winner of four Gold Medals at the Atlanta Paralympics.
Speaking at the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, 'A healthy life does not only limit to physical health, but also a well-balanced family life and the desire of personal advancement. PolyU places great emphasis on students?all-round development. Apart from the provision of professional knowledge and training, the University also maintains a balanced development of students?physical education, spirtual and cultural cultivation.? 
The festive event features a variety of activities that provide useful tips on health care for both the body and the mind. The activities range from carnival, seminars, talks, interactive workshops, sports and exercise promotion as well as healthy cooking demonstration.
In addition, distinguished speakers have been invited to talk on various aspects of health and wellness. They include:
 Mr Fung Leung-lo, Member, Wanchai District Board, on "Positive Life Style"
Ms Fung Bo-bo, Actress, on "Colourful Life"
 Dr Lu Gan, Jiangsu Provincial Hospital for the Elderly People, on "Abnormal State of Sleep - Sleep Apnoea and Body Health"
 Ms Bianca Tong, Clinical Psychologist, Hong Kong Mood Disorders Center, on "How to Handle Stress"
 Dr Michelle Chan, Health and Care Dental Clinic Limited, on "Healthy Teeth, Beautiful Life!"
 Mr Benjamin Ng and Ms Diana Chau, Prosthetist-Orthotist of PolyU's Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre, on "Foot Health"
 Mr Joseph Kuo, Assistant Professor, PolyU's Department of Optometry and Radiography, on "Radiation and You"
 Dr Matthew Yau, Assistant Professor and Certified Sex Therapist, PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, on "Health Sex, Health Relationship"
 Dr Larry Ng, Clinical Optometrist, PolyU's Department of Optometry and Radiography, on "Eyesight Killer"
 Mr Tsao Ngao-kok, Chinese Medical Officer, PolyU's University Health Service, on "Chronic Fatigue Syndrome"
 Dr Gillbert Y. S. Chan, Lecturer, PolyU's Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, on 'Application of Ozone Technology in Daily Life?br&gt;
This annual event is organized by Student Affairs Office in association with University Health Services, the Students' Union, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, Optometry and Radiography, Rehabilitation Sciences, Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre, School of Nursing and Health and Safety Office.
