
[date]2006.08.10[/date]
[title]HKCC students spent the summer contributing to cultural integration[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC) recently organized the "Asian Link ' Cultural Integration Scheme" to promote cultural integration between local and the non-ethnic Chinese (NEC) community through various activities, pooling the efforts of HKCC student and teacher volunteers, social workers and the police. Co-organizing the scheme with HKCC are the Hong Kong Police Force New Territories South Region, Hong Kong SKH Lady Maclehose Centre and The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council's Tung Chung Integrated Service Centre.
HKCC Director Dr Simon Leung said, "At HKCC, we put a strong emphasis on nurturing students'holistic development as well as building up their academic excellence. We are pleased to take part in this meaningful project to enhance cultural cohesion in the society.
"Our students' participation in this scheme has no doubt added value to their summer holidays in a meaningful way."
One of the highlights of the scheme was the "one-day experience in PolyU" involving 130 NEC children and their families. HKCC students guided them to tour HKCC's Beauty Lab, Chinese Lab, Language Lab and Computer Lab. The visitors spent an enjoyable day experiencing Chinese cultures from calligraphy, Cantonese pronunciation to translation of their own names into Chinese writing or Cantonese pronunciation. NEC children also tried out nail art, paraffin wax hand treatment, computer games and internet surfing in laughter.
Other activities under this scheme include multi-ethnic community gatherings; English training courses for NEC women; Cantonese or summer tutorial classes for NEC primary/secondary school children; visits to police stations and police museum and cultural exchange tours to Sikh Temple and Islamic Mosque. The nearly 50 HKCC students who have served as volunteering tutors and helpers in these activities all found the experience very interesting and rewarding. HKCC regularly organizes student community services projects in Hong Kong and the Mainland and partners with other organizations in voluntary work, such as the Summer Growth Camp for Secondary School Students. To encourage students to actively serve the needy, HKCC has created a Student Ambassador Programme and designed a "Co-curricular Achievement Transcript" which keeps track of a student's co-curricular development including community services. 
