
[date]2010.01.14[/date]
[title]PolyU Hosts Seminar for Air Freight Forwarding Industry[/title]
The Department of Computing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has organized a seminar for the air freight forwarding industry in collaboration with DHL Global Forwarding, Hongkong Association of Freight Forwarding And Logistics (HAFFA), Hong Kong R&amp;D Centre for Logistics and Supply Chain Management Enabling Technologies (LSCM), and Sun Hing Group of Companies. During the seminar, the interim results of a project funded by the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) entitled "Enhancing the Competitiveness of the Hong Kong Air Freight Forwarding Industry Using RFID and Software Agent Technologies" were reported.
PolyU is committed to engaging in applied research on advanced air freight forwarding services to help Hong Kong maintain its leading role in international air cargo processing and enhance its competitiveness. In his welcoming speech, Professor Alex Wai, Associate Vice President and Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, said, "PolyU is dedicated to applied research and according to the "Times Higher Education-QS World University Ranking 2009" of the Times Higher Education Supplement, PolyU is on the list of the top 100 universities in the disciplines of engineering and information technology. This project is another good example to illustrate how applied research can benefit our society."
As the Guest of Honour, Dr the Hon. Samson Tam, Legislative Councillor (Information Technology Functional Constituency), emphasized the importance of the government's support. He said, "It is important for the government to support this kind of applied research project. Logistics, in particular the air cargo industry, is one of Hong Kong's core economic pillars. Information technology plays a significant role in enhancing the competitiveness of this important economic pillar."
Being one of the R&amp;D centres supported under the ITF, the LSCM R&amp;D Centre has funded many logistics-related R&amp;D projects. This project is the first one funded by the Centre concerning air freight operations. Professor Chung Jen Tan, CEO of LSCM R&amp;D Centre said, "The Hong Kong International Airport handles over eight hundred flights every day, making it one of the world's busiest international air cargo centres. This project carried out successfully by the Department of Computing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University will create an advantageous environment for maintaining Hong Kong's logistics industries in the 21st century."
Representing all sectors of the freight logistics industry, HAFFA membership consists of both local and international businesses with over 300 member companies. Being the major supporting organization for this project, Mr Peter Wong, Chairman of HAFFA said, "After the successful experience of this project dedicated to RFID application in air cargo processing system, we look forward to extending the technology progressively to the whole supply chain from the manufacturer, shipper and ultimately to the end-user, our industry will then be able to enjoy the real benefit of the hassle-free, secured, high efficient, and worthy technology. And this project makes a first and very important step towards our ultimate goal."
DHL Global Forwarding, the world's leading logistics company, is the major sponsor for this project. Mr Kelvin Leung, CEO, North Asia Pacific, DHL Global Forwarding said, "RFID is a key technology for the logistics industry. While there have been major advancements in recent years, we can still optimize its potential in terms of bringing greater transparency, speed and security to achieve the best availability of goods around the world. It is our privilege to support the University in developing this vital technology to make Hong Kong's air freight forwarding industry even more competitive. We hope that our resources and facilities will help generate breakthroughs and developments to bring the logistics industry to a new level."
Another key sponsor for this project is Sun Hing Group of Companies, a leading player in freight consolidation services and warehouse operators in Hong Kong and South China. Mr Philip Lee, CEO of Sun Hing Group of Companies, said, "We see great potentials in RFID technology to integrate the intertwining legs on supply chains between sea, air and road freight as well as warehousing activities. With the initial success of the project to automate our freight consolidation services, we plan to further the implementation of RFID into our Hong Kong warehouses as well as the newly built 75,000 sqm warehouse in Yantian Bonded Logistics Park."
Other sponsoring/collaborating organizations for this project include E-Business Solutions Limited, Hong Kong RFID Limited and Jardine Airport Services Limited. The project team is also working with other companies (e.g. testing with The Janel Group of Hong Kong Limited) in the air freight forwarding industry or logistics industry, seeking their advice on various aspects.
In the seminar, the project team presented the project overview as well as the project updates. This project began in 2008 and is expected to be completed later in 2010.
About PolyUThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is a university with a proud and illustrious history. Formerly known as the Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Institution assumed full university status in 1994. The University prides itself on its quality application-oriented academic programmes and research and close ties with business and industry. It is the largest publicly-funded tertiary institution in Hong Kong in terms of number of students, with 28,000 full-time and part-time students, and a vast pool of over 280,000 graduates. PolyU website: www.polyu.edu.hk
About LSCM R&amp;D CentreHong Kong R&amp;D Centre for Logistics and Supply Chain Management Enabling Technologies (LSCM R&amp;D Centre) was found in April 2006. It is established with funding support from the Innovation and Technology Commission and is commissioned to provide a one-stop shop for technology transfer and commercialization. It is hosted by three leading universities in Hong Kong: The University of Hong Kong. The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. The aim of LSCM R&amp;D Centre is to strengthen collaborative applied research activities between the industry and research organizations. LSCM Website: www.lscm.hk
About HAFFAFounded in 1966 as the Association of Hong Kong Air Freight Forwarding Agents (AHAFA), the Hongkong Association of Freight Forwarding and Logistics Limited (HAFFA) is a non-profit making organization which promotes, protects and develops the carriage of goods (by different modes of transport), and the businesses of cargo forwarding agents, cargo forwarders and logistics service providers in particular. Representing many sectors of the freight logistics industry, HAFFA membership consists of both local and international companies of all sizes. Now with over 340 corporate members, which handle a significant percentage of air freight, sea freight and contract logistics in Hong Kong, HAFFA acts as an authoritative voice for the industry. HAFFA Website: www.haffa.com.hk
About DHL ' The Logistics company for the worldDHL is the global market leader in the logistics industry and "The Logistics company for the world". DHL commits its expertise in international express, air and ocean freight, road and rail transportation, contract logistics and international mail services to its customers. A global network composed of more than 220 countries and territories and about 300,000 employees worldwide offers customers superior service quality and local knowledge to satisfy their supply chain requirements. DHL accepts its social responsibility by supporting climate protection, disaster management and education.
DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL. The Group generated revenue of more than 54 billion euros in 2008.
About Sun Hing GroupSun Hing Group was founded in 1945. Like many other SMEs in Hong Kong, Sun Hing grew with Hong Kong in the past 60 years - from a war-torn colonial outpost after the Second World War to the thriving metropolis of today. Nowadays, its businesses cover logistics, insurance and information technology with over 300 direct employees. Sun Hing is investing over 300 million HK dollar to build a 750,000 sq. ft. modernized logistics centre, equipped with state-of-art technology, in the Bonded Logistics Park, Yantian Shenzhen. This marks a new milestone for Sun Hing and enhances collaboration between Hong Kong and Shenzhen. The logistics centre will commence operations in the mid-2010.
  
This project is funded by the Innovation and Technology Fund. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material / event (or by members of the project team) do not reflect the views of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Innovation and Technology Commission or the Panel of Assessors for the Innovation and Technology Support Programme of the Innovation and Technology Fund.
