
[date]2004.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes Multimedia Game Workshop for secondary school students in summer[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Computing (COMP) will offer 'Multimedia Game Workshop 2004' for secondary school students this summer. Application is now open to all Form Four to Form Six students and the deadline for application is 5 July 2004.
In response to the applauding feedback on last year's summer camp, COMP organizes the Multimedia Game Workshop to provide an opportunity for secondary school students to appreciate multimedia technologies and to immerse in a five-day venture of university life.
This workshop will cover computer graphics, animation, video, interactivity and the web, computer game basics, web-based game design, multimedia elements in game design and the making of computer games. Participants will not only be able to attend classes in COMP's computer laboratories, but also to exchange learning experience with COMP students. They can also visit PolyU's Multimedia Innovation Centre, 'Intelligent Home' laboratory and Student Halls of Residence. These campus facilities will be opened for their use so as to let them enjoy university life.
Prof. Keith Chan, Head of the Department said: 'Apart from providing a chance for secondary school students to experience university life, the five-day workshop is expected to enhance participants' interest and potentials in multimedia technologies. Through this workshop, students can also enjoy an exciting and meaningful summer.' Prof. Chan further added that the workshop could tighten the ties between University students and secondary school students.
There are two classes of the workshop which will be held from 26 to 30 July and 2 to 6 August 2004 respectively. The enrolment fee of the workshop is $980. COMP will subsidize students in need with a maximum of 50% of the total fee. Interested students can approach their school's computer science teachers or visit the website at http://www.comp.polyu.edu.hk/nevents/activities/1033/.
For any enquiries regarding the Workshop, please call 2766 5176 or email to asschool@polyu.edu.hk.
