
[date]2008.07.17[/date]
[title]PolyU's environmental improvement project receives support of HSBC[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently received a generous donation of HK$2 million from HSBC Insurance to kick off an environmental education and improvement project. It is planned that premises of 10 non-profit making schools will be paved with 'eco-block', a new environmentally friendly construction material which can remove air pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides.
The project's first beneficiary organization is the Hong Kong Society for the Protection of Children, which will use the eco-blocks in its Mongkok headquarters and Ma Tau Chung Service Building. The two-year project is expected to benefit 3,000 students and 200 teachers in Hong Kong.
Prof. Teng Jin-guang, PolyU's Associate Vice President and Dean of Faculty of Construction and Land Use, thanked HSBC Insurance for its generous support. 'PolyU is excited to work with HSBC Insurance on this project that brings multiple environmental benefits. HSBC Insurance and its customers are making a relevant and lasting impact on the environment by supporting this project,' he said.
The eco-block was developed by a team of PolyU researchers under the leadership of Prof. Poon Chi-sun of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering in 2002. The eco-blocks make use of recycled waste glass derived from beverage containers and construction and demolition waste to replace sand and stone which would not only alleviate the waste disposal pressure in Hong Kong, but also minimize the environmental degradation due to extraction of natural materials.     
'We have tested these eco-blocks and proven that they can convert air pollutants into non-hazardous materials,' explained Professor Poon, who is also the Director of Research Centre for Environmental Technology and Management at PolyU. 'The use of recycled waste glass in the blocks has, in particular, aided the air pollutant removal effect. Experiment results show that at least 20 per cent of nitrogen oxides can be effectively removed under laboratory conditions.'
According to Prof. Poon, the new material also meets the Hong Kong Government's civil engineering work standard. Compared with conventional blocks, the eco-blocks not only have similar life-span but also better performance in terms of water absorption, hardness and aesthetic values.
'Used as a paving and partitioning material for buildings, streets and pavements, the eco-block contributes to improved air quality by removing air pollutants emitted by buses, cars and other vehicles,' Prof. Poon added. 'Furthermore, it not only reduces the disposal of waste glass, but also conserves the use of natural materials, such as river sand. This makes the eco-block a truly environmentally friendly product.'
