
[date]2006.09.07[/date]
[title]PolyU holds International Conference on Impact of Movies and Television on Tourism[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is bringing together more than 40 scholars, researchers, policy makers and industry professionals from different parts of the world to a three-day conference from this Thursday to Saturday (7 to 9 September) in Hong Kong to exchange information and opinions about how movies and television can help boost tourism.
The International Conference on Impact of Movies and Television on Tourism was officially kicked off yesterday (7 September) by Mrs. Selina Chow, Chairman of Hong Kong Tourism Board; Mr Tung Joe Cheung, Permanent Honorary President, Hong Kong Film Directors' Guild; Mr James Lu, Executive Director, Hong Kong Hotels Association; Mr Lin Shan, Director, Asia Tourism Exchange Center Ltd; Mr Ken Chang, Vice Chairman, Travel Industry Council of Hong Kong; Ms Sylvia Chung, Chairman, Advisory Committee, SHTM, PolyU; Prof. Kaye Chon, Head, SHTM, PolyU; and Prof. Amy Chan, Honorary Professor, SHTM, PolyU.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Chon said that movies and television series have recently induced a new trend of tourism and created new opportunities for various destinations. He observed that the two seemingly unrelated industries have found common ground to cooperate for a winwin situation.
Prof. Chon added that academics of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management have been studying this exciting trend of movie tourism for some time and PolyU was proud to present the world's first international conference on the theme. The School, as a leading institution in hospitality and tourism education in Asia, took the initiative to organize the Conference in order to provide international tourism community with an interdisciplinary forum to consolidate the research efforts and industry experiences on the field.
The Honorary Chairman of the Conference Prof. Jackie Chan, the School's Honorary Professor and a world-renowned movie star, also addressed the ceremony through video tape. He indicated that he was eager to witness the cooperation between movie and tourism, and hoped that the new direction would generate novel opportunities for both industries to further prosper.
The Conference includes six paper presentation sessions and three plenary sessions. The papers altogether offer a multi-dimensional perspective on the subject, discussing a wide spectrum of topics including tourism marketing, influence on destination images, economic and social impacts of movies production on locations, and empirical measurement of effects, etc. The themes of the plenary sessions read: 'Turning filming locations into successful tourism attractions', 'How destinations, film industry and travel trade can co-operate for a triple win situation' and 'Impact of movies and television on tourism - case studies'. Hot movies, such as Da Vinci Code, Brokeback Mountain, Winter Sonata and The Lord of the Rings, and Japanese and Korean TV series are examined regarding their impact on tourism of related countries.
Distinguished scholars and practitioners speaking at the Conference come from Japan, Korea, India, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, the United States, Italy, UK, China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Among the panelists sharing their industry experiences and expert opinions are Ms Mabel Cheung Yuen-ting, Hong Kong movie director; Mr Zhang Xian-liang, Director of China West Film Studio; Mr Li Hong-ming, Mayor of Huangshan Municipal People's Government; Mr Kazunari Taguchi, Executive Director of Japan National Tourist Organisation (Hong Kong Office); Mr Tony Everitt, Regional General Manager Asia of Tourism New Zealand; and Dr Sue Beeton, Director of Research, School of Sports, Tourism and Hospitality Management, La Trobe University of Australia.
More details of the International Conference on Impact of Movies and Television on Tourism are available at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/movie2006/.
