
[date]2003.07.23[/date]
[title]"FabricEye" helps raise standards for the textile industry[/title]
In a flash of 60 seconds or less, the world's first Artificial Intelligence-enabled fabric evaluation machine "FabricEye" is able to capture the surface image and grade the fabric in a much more reliable and cost-effective way, replacing traditional manual inspection.
This invention is the fruit borne by textile scientists at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Headed by Prof. Edward Newton and Dr Hu Jinlian, Chair Professor and Associate Professor of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, the research team has already secured two US patents and a trade mark for their innovation.
Introducing the breakthrough, Prof. Newton said, "Manual inspection has been commonly adopted in the textile industry for more than half a century, yet it is time-consuming, subjective and far from accurate. The successful development of FabricEye helps raise the industry standards in developing and sourcing quality fabrics in an economical and efficient way, thus leading to better end products to the consumers."
The Principal Investigator, Dr Hu, went on to explain that FabricEye can be applied to a wide range of settings, from factories to laundries, testing laboratories and customs.
Making use of the three-dimensional image processing technique, PolyU researchers have integrated a high quality progressive scanning CCD camera in the design of FabricEye. The sophisticated machine first scans and captures the surface image of the fabric. It is then followed by an automatic analysis - grading the fabric in a five-point scale - in accordance with the international ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) or other standards. The captured images allow the industry to build up their own database for further analysis and production improvement.
Currently, FabricEye is capable of evaluating pilling and thickness of a fabric - an essential step in achieving quality assurance. More features will be added in the future including wrinkling, seam puckering, texture density shrinkage, polar fleece appearance and fuzziness.
In spite of its advanced application, FabricEye can be readily installed on a general purpose computer with MS Windows platform. Dr Hu concluded, "FabricEye is a breakthrough for the textile industry. It is compact, environmentally-safe and easy to operate."
