
[date]2004.04.20[/date]
[title]PolyU activities turn secondary students’ holidays into worthy learning experience[/title]
With an aim of promoting its application-oriented culture, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is going to host a range of fun-filled, educational activities for the local secondary school students during weekends and holidays from April to August.
Speaking on the objectives of the new initiatives, Mrs Ada Chan, Senior Assistant Academic Secretary, said, 'PolyU runs a number of unique programmes. We regularly receive enquiries from JUPAS applicants as well as junior secondary school students who are keen to know more about our academic programmes and university life.'
About 20 academic workshops that require active participation by students will be run by academic departments to introduce their courses and related professions to the participants, and more importantly, to broaden their horizon. Students who are studying between Secondary three and Secondary seven are welcome to join programmes that are tailor-made for them to gain first-hand experience at PolyU.
From now till August, the exciting activities include 'Workshop on Biomedical Science' by the School of Nursing, 'A Week in the Life of an Electrical Engineering Student' by the Department of Electrical Engineering and 'Workshop on Video Editing' by the Department of Computing, to name just a few.
Apart from monthly activities, several summer camps will also be held in July. An innovative training camp named 'Sparkles of Life Camp' invites secondary school students to stay in the Students Halls of Residence and experience rigorous training that helps nurture their self-esteem, social and leadership skills. Another camp known as 'A Touch of Science &amp; Textiles', organized by the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles, will enable students to explore the multi-facets of science. Other educational camps will also be run by our Faculty of Business and School of Design to fill students' long vacation with interesting and worthy learning experience.
PolyU has also taken the lead to provide an opportunity for the secondary school students to have a taste of university classes. With special arrangement, teaching staff from our six faculties and 26 academic departments are ready to deliver mini lectures in the secondary schools.
Interested students and school teachers are invited to visit our website at www.polyu.edu.hk/study or contact Miss Ada Poon at 2766 5141 for the latest information and enrolment details.
