
[date]2003.11.18[/date]
[title]PolyU's facility management programme wins international accreditation[/title]
The Master of Science in Facility Management programme offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Building Services Engineering (BSE) has recently become Asia's first programme to have been successfully accredited by the International Facility Management Association (IFMA).
During the World Workplace 2003 Conference held in Dallas, Texas, US in mid October, PolyU was named one of the six international institutions to offer IFMA recognized Master's Degree programme in Facility Management. Other universities include Cornell University in the US and FHS KufsteinTirol in Austria.
BSE Head Prof. John Gilleard, who first initiated and set up the Programme, said, "We are most delighted that our vision has been shared by the international community. Being the first institution in Asia to be awarded such accreditation, PolyU is proud to become an exemplar in providing quality and business-driven facility management education."
Launched in 1996, the Master of Science in Facility Management programme aims to provide students with a combination of technical and economic training as well as extensive knowledge and skills in the fields of facility management. The programme is offered in part-time mode for a normal duration of three years. Over the years, the programme has groomed more than 120 graduates for the industry.
PolyU's Department of Building Services Engineering was set up in 1981. It is the only major institution in Hong Kong which has devoted exclusively to building services engineering. It is also one of the largest academic units worldwide, acclaimed for its teaching excellence and high quality of applied research. Through active participation and collaboration in research and consultancy services, the Department maintains close links with the local industry, the Government and leading institutions on the Chinese mainland and overseas.
