
[date]2006.05.25[/date]
[title]PolyU vows to help boost tourism in Huangshan[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Huangshan Municipal Tourism Bureau (HMTB) have recently signed an agreement to jointly further promote the standard of tourism industry in Huangshan city.
The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Professor Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Head of SHTM and Mr Liu Yingwang, Director of HMTB on the PolyU campus on 16 May. Under this agreement, both parties will jointly develop training programmes, conduct research related to the China tourism market, exchange market intelligence and organize international conferences and tourism events in Huangshan.
The Delegations of Anhui Provincial Government and Huangshan Municipal People's Government led by Mr Wu Keming, President of the Research Office of Anhui Provincial Government and Mr Li Hongming, Mayor of Huangshan Municipal People's Government also visited PolyU during their stay in Hong Kong earlier this month.
Professor Chon said that Huangshan, as a major tourist attraction in China, is well poised to further advance its tourism industry. He believed that this mutually beneficial collaboration will strengthen ties between SHTM and mainland cities.
Mr Li Hongming, Mayor of Huangshan city, believed that there were ample opportunities for tourism to scale new heights. "The municipal people's government of the city can take on the expertise and experience of SHTM to raise the quality of the tourism industry to match with international standards," he said.
Located at the southern border of Anhui province, Huangshan is famous for the beauty of its various scenic spots in the mountain, fascinating visitors by different charms in each season. A popular tourist destination, it drew more than 10 million visitors last year, generating a gross revenue of 6.15 billion yuen. Yet, less than five per cent of the guests came from outside the country.
Internationally renowned as a global leader of hotel and tourism education, PolyU's SHTM was recognized by World Tourism Organization as one of the world's 16 centres of travel and tourism education ' and the only one in Asia. According to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in August 2005, SHTM was ranked 4th among university world-ranking based on research and scholarship. It is the only non-US based institution in the top-five list.
Looking into the future, PolyU will build dedicated premises for SHTM which incorporates a teaching hotel on the site of its former staff quarters in Tsimshatsui East. Part of the new premises is expected to be ready for occupation in the 2008/09 academic year.
