
[date]2006.06.21[/date]
[title]PolyU and Huazhong University of Science and Technology extend collaboration in physiotherapy education[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) signed an agreement with Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) yesterday (21 June) to push to a new height their collaboration to nurture physiotherapists through jointly offering the only Master's degree in Physical Therapy programme in the Chinese mainland. The programme's third cohort of intake is scheduled to commence in March 2007.
Officiating at the signing ceremony were PolyU Vice President (Research Development) Prof. Ko Jan-ming and Vice Chairman of The University Affairs Committee of HUST Prof. Liu Jianfan.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Ko said, "The Master in Physical Therapy programme is a collaboration between the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences of PolyU and Tongji Medical College of HUST in Wuhan. Initiated by PolyU with the support of HUST in 2004, the programme is the first of its kind in the mainland, and has been well received with high acclaims since its introduction."
Professor Ko further added that with the continuous improvement in the quality of living in China and the forthcoming Beijing Olympics in 2008, the programme is expected to nurture physiotherapists of international standard to meet the surging demand in the country.
The first batch of more than 30 students will be graduating from the programme this August. These new bloods will spearhead the development of the physiotherapy practice in China, with some of them shouldering the mission of training newer generations of physiotherapists in different parts of the mainland. With the support by Frank Pong Physiotherapy Scholarship, two of them have started undertaking four-week placements at PolyU's Rehabilitation Clinic to gain practical experience in real-life environment.
The Department of Rehabilitation Sciences at PolyU is the sole provider of professional education in occupational therapy and physiotherapy in Hong Kong, offering programmes at levels of Bachelor of Science, Master of Science, Master of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with an emphasis on high quality multi-disciplinary research and practices. Courses offered range from manipulative or sports physiotherapy to geriatric or vocational rehabilitation, among others.
Huazhong University of Technology is one of the state key universities in the mainland. A leading medical institution in the country, Tongji Medical College of HUST is at the forefront of grooming professionals in basic medicine, public health, preventive medicine and clinical medicine.
