
[date]2005.12.30[/date]
[title]PolyU to host international conference on biometrics[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is proud to announce the coming of Asia's most pioneering biometrics event, The International Conference on Biometrics 2006 (ICB 2006), to be held on campus from 5th to 7th January, 2006.
Organized by PolyU's Department of Computing and sponsored by Motorola, IEEE, Springer, OMRON and others, ICB 2006 will bring together more than 200 biometric experts and academics from over 20 countries to exchange and share research results. Over 100 cutting-edge presentations on advanced biometrics topics will be presented, focusing on the improvement and enhancement of existing biometrics and pattern recognition technology, novel advancement in customising ethnic-specific utilities, incorporation of fake detection and amplifying applicability and utilization.
At the invitation of PolyU, Mr. Howard Dickson, Government Chief Information Officer, Government of the HKSAR, will deliver an opening speech at ICB 2006. The Conference will also include keynote addresses by renowned scholars and experts, including Prof. Vijayakumar Bhagavatula, Acting Department Head of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University; Dr. Behnam Bavarian, Vice President, Biometrics Business Group, Motorola, USA; Dr. Norihiro Hagita, Director, ATR  Intelligent Robotics and Communication Labs &amp;  ATR  Media Information Science Labs, Japan and Mr. Raymond Wong, Assistant Director (Information Systems), Immigration Department, Government of HKSAR.
An exhibition will also be held during the Conference on PolyU campus to demonstrate the latest biometric products and prototypes. Exhibitors include local and overseas universities and organizations worldwide.
To facilitate the transfer of biometrics technologies from university to industry, the Department of Computing of PolyU took the lead in setting up the Biometric Research Centre in 1998. Among its researchers, Chair Prof. David Zhang, Associate Head of the Department of Computing and Director of the Biometric Research Centre, and his research team have successfully developed the World's first commercial use Palm-print Identification System. This remarkable development has generated a number of patents and earned him many international awards including the Senior Research Fellowship Award by the Croucher Foundation in 2004, the Gold Medal in the 14th National Inventions Exhibition of China in 2003, and Special Gold Award by the Invention Promotion Association of Korea in 2002.
Currently, Prof. Zhang and his research team are integrating traditional Chinese medicine diagnosis with biometric product development, creating tongue diagnosis system and pulse diagnosis system for daily use.
Prof. Zhang said, "These systems developed by our Biometric Laboratory can diagnose illnesses through human tongue shape, tongue print and heartbeat patters." The Tongue Diagnose System can diagnose such illnesses as intestinitis, cholecystitis, pancreatitis, diabetics, cirrhosis and heart failure, while the Pulse Diagnosis System is capable of diagnosing heart failure and lethargy. 
Last year, the first International Conference on Biometric Authentication 2004 was an outstanding success. The conference attracted a number of sponsors and their biometrics products, including the fingerprint-ID card identity authentication system employed by the Hong Kong Immigration Department.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are welcome to attend and cover the opening and exhibition of The International Conference on Biometrics 2006. Details are as follows:
Open Ceremony
Date: 5 January 2006 (Thursday)
Time: 9:00 - 9:30 a.m.
Venue: N002, PolyU, Hung Hom
Guests:Mr. Howard Dickson, Government Chief Information Officer, Government of the HKSARProf. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President
Exhibition for Press
Date: 5 January 2006 (Thursday)
Time: 10:00 - 11:00 a.m.
Venue: 11/F, Shirley Chan Building (Block R), PolyU, Hung Hom
