
[date]2006.07.25[/date]
[title]SPEED partners with Canada's largest college to train forensic accountants[/title]
The School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University signed a collaboration agreement with Canada's Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology (Seneca) yesterday (25 July) in the provision of the territory's first postgraduate programme in Forensic Accounting.
Under this five-year collaboration agreement, SPEED will provide high-quality teaching facilities and administrative support for the programme while Seneca will be responsible for designing the curriculum and teaching materials.
The agreement was signed by Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of the PolyU-affiliated College of Professional and Continuing Education, and Mr Mohammed Ali Khan, Vice President of International and Business Development of Seneca. Mr Rupert Leung, Acting Director of SPEED and Mr Nick Huang, Director of Seneca International, also attended the ceremony. 
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Prof. Thomas Wong remarked, "Forensic Accounting is an emerging area of the accountancy profession. There is a high demand for forensic accountants around the world and locally to help prevent and investigate into commercial crimes. We are thrilled to enter into collaboration with Seneca which has 40 years of history in providing distinguished education integrated with the newest technology."  
 "Seneca is proud to export our curriculum, faculty and expertise to deliver a skills-oriented approach to the investigation of fraud, financial disputes and other corporate irregularities," said Mr Mohammed Ali Khan. "PolyU is one of the most prestigious universities in China and this is a great opportunity for Seneca to showcase our customized, practical solutions for today's business world."
According to a renowned accounting firm's survey in 2005, 22 per cent of the Hong Kong companies experienced fraud in the two years preceding the survey. It was also revealed that over one third of these frauds were discovered by accident. More and more corporations realize the significance of fraud prevention to minimize the possibility of economic and financial losses. 
Mr C K Cho, Vice President of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (Hong Kong Chapter) and Chief Executive Officer of AIDA International Consultants Limited said, "Commercial crimes are becoming more and more complex nowadays. As a result, law enforcement agencies, financial regulators, accounting firms and financial institutions increasingly demand the services of forensic accounting professionals in risk management, fraud prevention and investigation. Staff training in the area of forensic accounting is no doubt a trend and will contribute to protecting a company's assets and investors' interests as well as strengthening investors' confidence." 
The programme consists of 12 courses, each with 42 teaching hours, to be delivered in a part-time "blended mode" combining face-to face lectures, in-class activities and web-based studies. Both SPEED and Seneca's teaching staff will take part in conducting the courses. Upon successful completion of all courses, students will be awarded the Ontario College Graduate Certificate in Forensic Accounting from Seneca. 
Specialized areas to be taught under this programme include fraud investigation, money laundering and asset tracing, computer forensics and data mining, litigation support, serving as experts/witnesses, criminology and ethics, interviewing and effective presentations, fraud prevention and detection as well as financial statement fraud. 
Law enforcement officers, accountants, auditors, lawyers, management executives of corporations and other interested parties who meet the course entry requirements are welcome to join this programme. Enquiry hotline for this programme is 3400 2828.
School of Professional Education and Executive Development spearheads lifelong learning by offering short courses, full-time and part-time programmes ranging from pre-associate degree to doctoral level leading to PolyU SPEED awards or overseas academic awards through close collaboration with overseas reputable education institutions. SPEED also offers a flexible and unique Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) which enables learners to study at their own pace and accumulate credits for academic awards according to a clear progression. The credits earned are valid for lifetime. 
Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology is the largest college in Canada with more than 100,000 full-time and part-time students on campuses across the Greater Toronto Area. Seneca provides internationally and nationally recognized career education and training key to graduates success in the global economy. Every Seneca diploma, certificate and applied degree programme is developed to a high academic standard, in consultation with industry, integrated with information technology, combined with technical and transferable skills, and reinforced by opportunities for ongoing education and re-training.  
