
[date]2006.06.22[/date]
[title]Honorary Professor Jackie Chan kicks off School of Design's Graduation Show[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (22 June) celebrated the opening of its School of Design (SD)'s Graduation Show at an on-campus ceremony officiated at by its Honorary Professor and world-renowned movie star Jackie Chan; President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong; and Head of SD Prof. Lorraine Justice.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Prof. Poon said PolyU has recently approved the detachment of SD from the Faculty of Communications. "This new development, I believe, will give the School more autonomy and flexibility in further advancing its mission of providing world-class design education."
He also thanked Prof. Jackie Chan for his longstanding support to PolyU over the years. "His first ever presence at our Graduation Show today has undoubtedly given a strong boost to our SD. I am sure that our design graduates will well remember this memorable occasion before they make a head start in their career," he added.
Themed "Open Design, Closer People", the show is staged on the university campus from now until 4 July 2006. The event showcases over a hundred creative works from graduating Bachelor's degree students in various design disciplines, including Environmental Design, Industrial and Product Design as well as Visual Communication Design.
Backed by industry support, several awards were presented to outstanding design students. These include the Philips Design Excellence Award, Lane Crawford Outstanding Project Award, The Best Graduate Award sponsored by SD Alumni Association, and scholarships sponsored by the Industrial Designers Society of Hong Kong.  Winners of the Tate's Cairn Tunnel Design Competition and Giordano's "World without Strangers" Print-Tee Design Competition were also announced during the event.
The exhibition is free and open to members of the public with details as follows:
Opening hours: 10.00 a.m. - 8.00 p.m.
Exhibition venue: SD Gallery (Room A101 in Core A, PolyU)
In Hong Kong, PolyU is the forerunner and sole provider of design education at tertiary level.  For more than four decades, SD has groomed thousands of graduates and many famous designers in various disciplines. To name just a few, they include world-renowned fashion designer Vivienne Tam, Mr Raman Hui, Oscar-winner and Supervising Animator for Shrek; Mr Dennis Chan, founder of the jewellery brand Qeelin; and Mr Freeman Lau, Partner of Kan &amp; Lau design consultancy.
