
[date]2006.01.06[/date]
[title]PolyU’s Research Institute responds to report on West Kowloon Cultural District[/title]
The Public Policy Research Institute (PPRI) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University would like to respond to the newly released Legislative Council Subcommittee's Phase II Report on the Development of the West Kowloon Cultural District (WKCD) relating to a study conducted by PPRI.
On 7 February 2005, PPRI was appointed by Government as the Consultant for the Consultancy Service to analyse public views on the Development of WKCD received during the public consultation period 16 December 2004 to 30 June 2005.  PPRI published the Report of the Study in October 2005.
PPRI reiterates that it operates with total academic independence and that the analyses, findings, and interpretation of the findings contained in its Report reflect the views of PPRI and do not necessarily reflect those of Government. 
PPRI would like to state that its Study is robust on the basis of the diversity of the sources of evidence, the large number of responses from each source, and the corroboration of results through triangulation.  PPRI received from Government 33,416 Comment Cards (12,825 of which contained written comments), and over 600 written submissions and records of relevant meetings. State-of-the-art methodology was applied in the analysis of both qualitative and quantitative data. In addition, PPRI conducted three randomized Telephone Polls of over 1,500 persons in each survey.  PPRI adhered to the highest academic standard on research design, data collection and analysis, and the entire process was subjected to a rigorous internal quality assurance process.  PPRI is confident that the findings of the Study are reliable.
 
On the design of the questions in the Telephone Poll, PPRI disagrees with the Subcommittee's observation that some of the questions contain positive statements that may give rise to a response in favour of Government's position. The PPRI believes that questions in the Telephone Poll must contain statements of facts in order to provide sufficient information to the respondents. 
