
[date]2006.05.26[/date]
[title]Jockey Club Summer Internship Programme in full swing[/title]
More than 700 university students from eight UGC-funded institutions will benefit from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Summer Internship Programme (JCSIP) for Tertiary Students this year. With financial support from JCSIP, they will be placed with companies and organizations on the Chinese mainland and overseas to gain valuable working experience and broaden their horizon.
Co-ordinated by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and jointly organized by eight publicly funded tertiary institutions, JCSIP seeks to provide placement opportunities for local university students. In 2004, the programme was supported by a further donation of HK$16 million from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust. Since 2000, the Trust has generously donated a total of HK$27 million in support of this programme for six consecutive academic years.
To mark the beginning of JCSIP this year, a special ceremony was held yesterday (26 May) on the PolyU campus. The ceremony was officiated at by Prof. Edward Chen, Convenor of the Heads of Universities Committee (HUCOM) and Mr Anthony Chow, Steward of The Hong Kong Jockey Club. 
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Chen expressed profound gratitude to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust for supporting various initiatives of local institutions. Apart from JCSIP, HKJC also provided scholarships for mainland students to pursue undergraduate studies in Hong Kong and supported the construction of many infrastructures and facilities for education purposes.
Prof. Chen also stressed that internship is an effective and fruitful training for university students. In addition to acquiring professional knowledge and hands-on experience, students are rewarded with friendship and social skills during their placement in overseas countries and in the mainland.
During the function, Mr Chow also delivered a keynote address on the topic of "How to seek your chance and enhance your competitiveness".  The ceremony was concluded with flag presentation by Mr Chow to student representatives from those tertiary institutions benefited from the Programme.
Of those over 700 students who will undertake internships in summer, about 600 will be placed in mainland cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Harbin and Guangzhou; while 100 will undertake their internships in overseas countries such as Australia, the UK, Sweden and the US. These companies cover the areas of mass communication, information technology, legal, accounting and financial services, biochemistry and manufacturing. 
Prior to their departure, a preparatory training programme will be held in May to equip participants for their summer internship. A maximum subsidy of HK$7,000 and HK$16,000 will be granted to each student for placement in the Chinese mainland and overseas respectively. For more details, please refer to the programme website at URL:  www.polyu.edu.hk/sao/jcsip
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has long been supportive of various youth development programmes. The sponsorship for this major internship project fits well with the Jockey Club's objective of providing greatest benefit for the well-being of society as a whole.
- End -
