
[date]2005.03.17[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Careers Exhibition[/title]
To prepare its final-year students for the increasingly competitive job market, the Student Affairs Office of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (17 March) unveiled a two-day "Careers Exhibition" on campus.The event was opened by Dr Jose Yu Sunsay, President of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association; Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President; Prof. Leung Tin-pui, Vice President (Student Development) and Mrs Dorinda Fung, Director of Student Affairs.President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, "PolyU strives to produce high caliber graduates who are equipped with professional knowledge as well as global outlook, to be able to support Hong Kong's development into a knowledge-based economy."This year, more than 30 organizations of the civil service, public and private sectors, as well as educational institutions have joined the exhibition. Among them are professional organizations in accountancy, engineering and telecommunication. Representatives from other private companies such as Cathay Pacific Airways, Li &amp; Fung, Maersk of the logistics industry, American International Assurance of the insurance industry, are on hand to answer students' enquiries.The Careers Exhibition provided an opportunity for students to interact with their potential employers and enhance understanding of the industries in which they may enter after graduation. During the Exhibition, mock interviews were held to enhance students' interview skills and walk-in-interviews were arranged by individual organizations for recruitment. A large variety of activities including China plant visits, recruitment talks and training workshops have also been arranged.Apart from the participation of potential employers, the University has also set up a booth to promote its 'Preferred Graduate' Development Programme. Introduced in summer 1997, the Programme is aimed at exposing PolyU students to actual working environment through various placement opportunities in organizations of Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland or overseas countries before their graduation. With the support of over 750 partner companies and supporting organizations, nearly 5,000 students have benefited from this Programme.
