
[date]2005.10.05[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Day[/title]
The Education Info Day of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which will be held this Saturday (8 October), is set to attract a big crowd of prospective applicants and members of the public to the university campus.
With the theme 'Sharpen your competitive edge at PolyU', this large-scale event will give participants first-hand information on the University's degree and sub-degree programmes, as well as other significant developments. The University campus and its facilities will be open to secondary students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public.
To help prospective students make their choice of study, advices on the admission arrangements, selection criteria and other important reminders will be provided at the 'Admission Chat Box' at the University's Jockey Club Auditorium. Student ambassadors and staff of the Academic Secretariat will be there to answer queries and to provide consultation especially to Form 7 students. Student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with participants.
To give prospective applicants in-depth details of its programmes, over 50 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by various academic departments. Topics of the seminars include: 'The Exciting Fashion and Textile Industry', 'Are you a Future Business Leader?', 'Reach for the Stars ' Become a Hotel and Tourism Industry Professional', 'Is Electrical Engineering My Best Choice?' and 'Education for the 21st Century Social Workers'.
This year, a SU Region, featuring student performances, stall games and exhibition, will be put up to give participants a taste of colourful and vibrant life in PolyU. There will be guided tours to the Student Halls of Residence. Visitors will also be welcome to tour facilities such as the Library, Industrial Centre, Optometry Clinic, language centres, laboratories and other communal and sports facilities.
Other highlights of the PolyU Education Info Day are exhibitions, video shows, demonstrations, campus tours and forum for careers teachers. Special programmes include PolyU Sportmen which will show visitors the outstanding non-academic achievements of PolyU students; and visit to the 'House of Innovation', where many outstanding research projects such as the Mars Rock Corer which has been carried by the European Space Agency spacecraft on Mars, eco-bricks and nano-technology materials, are displayed.
The University's programmes are offered by 28 academic departments and centres grouped under six Faculties namely Applied Science and Textiles; Business; Communication; Construction and Land Use; Engineering, Health and Social Sciences. There is also an independent School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
PolyU is the sole provider of full-time honours degree programmes in the following areas: biomedical engineering, design, engineering physics, fashion and textiles, geomatics, international shipping and transport logistics, medical laboratory science, occupational therapy, optometry, physiotherapy and radiography.
For more details on the PolyU Education Info Day, please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday.
Press Invitation
Members of the press are cordially invited to join the PolyU Education Info Day:
Date : 8 October (Saturday) 
Time : 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Venue : PolyU Campus 
