
[date]2005.07.15[/date]
[title]PolyU's Microsystems Technology Centre opens[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering (ISE) held a special ceremony to celebrate the opening of its Microsystems Technology Centre yesterday (15 July). Officiating at the ceremony were Mr Ng Wai-hung, Chairman of Hong Kong Critical Components Manufacturers Association and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU's Vice President (Partnership Development).
With the support from the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund, ISE established the Centre for the development of advanced machinery and processes for the manufacture of miniature parts and pioneering research in micro engineering.
Headed by ISE's Associate Head, Prof. K.L. Yung, the Centre aims to develop a series of miniaturized micro-injection moulding machines for micro size products in areas such as bioengineering and electronics. The technology is derived from the PolyU-invented space tool-Mars Rock Corer-for the Mars Express Mission by the European Space Agency in 2003. Currently no other commercially available machines have the ability to make products of such size and accuracy.
During the ceremony, Dr Lui said that the Centre had received a grant of $11.83 million from the Innovation and Technology Fund since 2003 in support of its research project named "Development of Miniaturized Micro/Nano-injection Moulding". Recently, the Centre has received an addition of $8.8 million from the Guangdong-Hong Kong Technology Cooperation Funding Scheme for the development of intelligent active mold technology for the manufacturing of micro-parts.
"The funding support is recognition of the University's leading role in applied research and trade-institution partnership. It also reiterates PolyU's belief that the future of Hong Kong will continue to rely on the success of collaborative technological development between institutions and industry," said Dr Lui.
A technical seminar on "MicroTechnologies" was also held after the ceremony. During the seminar, Prof. K.L. Yung spoke on the micro injection moulding technology while Mr Athanasios Kondomitsos, Managing Director of Germany's Mikro-und OberflachenTechnik, shared his views on electroforming techniques for manufacturing of micro devices. The seminar attracted over 50 participants from members of the industry.
In addition to the support from the Innovation and Technology Fund, the Centre also receives sponsorship from the industry including Po Yuen (To's) Machine Factory Limited, SEMK Industrial (Holdings) Company Limited, L.K. Technology Holdings Limited, Confi Metal Finishing Company Limited and G.E.W. Corporation Limited.
