
[date]2006.06.06[/date]
[title]PolyU's new top-up degree programme develops students' English language competence in business and professional communication[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of English (ENGL) will be offering a new part-time top-up degree programme, BA (Hons) in English for Business and Professional Communication (EBPC), for Higher Diploma and Associate Degree holders who seek to enhance their English language competence for the multilingual and multicultural workplace of the 21st century. The programme will commence classes this September.
This highly practical and focus programme aims to enable students to acquire an academic grounding in English language studies, discover ways to explore the dynamic potential of the English language, and formulate practical solutions to communicative problems in business service situations.
"Language and communication has been one of PolyU's strengths and BAEBPC is another unique programme that capitalises on our department's expertise in professional communication. Its three intellectual cores, which are Focusing on Language, Focusing on Communication, and Investing Business English, will equip students with all-round knowledge and skills in the aspects of language, communication, and business English and will help them to be a highly effective professional communicator," said Dr Xu Xunfeng, Acting Head of ENGL.
This self-financed programme runs over six consecutive semesters, including two summer semesters. Classes are normally conducted on weekday evenings and weekends. Students can achieve the 60-credit requirement in two years and obtain the BA (Hons) award if they take four subjects in a typical 14-week semester, and two subjects in a 7-week summer semester.
Compulsory core subjects (3 credits each)I. Focusing on Language
English for Public Relations and Marketing
English for Technical &amp; Web-Based Writing
English for the Media
Understanding English Legal Texts
II. Focusing on Communication
Fundamentals of Organisational Communication
Fundamentals of Media Communication
Computer Mediated Communication
Intercultural Communicative Competence
III. Investing Business English
English Discourse in the Profession
Case Studies in Professional Context
Highlights of electives (3 credits each, except the 6-credit Final Year Project)
English for Administration
Intercultural Communication in Business
English Texts &amp; Image
English for Management
Application of this programme is now open. For further programme information or application details, please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/study or call the enquiry hotline at 2766 7573.
Over the years, ENGL has made a name for itself in the area of professional communication in terms of its research activities, expertise and teaching. It has dedicated strenuous efforts in enhancing students' professional communication skills through its high-quality programmes, including the well-known MA in English for the Professions and the new BA (Hons) Language Studies for the Professions jointly organised with the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies. Since its establishment, more than 1,500 students have graduated from ENGL.
