
[date]2006.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance launches “FastTrack to the Real World” programme[/title]
With the launch of its "FastTrack to the Real World ' BBA Accounting and Finance" programme, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Accounting and Finance (AF) wishes to attract high potential students to study in the university. The initiative is a follow-through of the university's new scholarship schemes announced earlier.
The programme will be very selective, and only recruits 40 high potential students each year. All students in the programme will be provided with an exchange opportunity for up to a semester and internship with renowned international accounting firms and financial institutions. They will also be given more opportunities to develop leadership and business skills.
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business, is optimistic that this FastTrack programme will attract more high potential students to apply for PolyU's programmes.
Prof. Ferdinand Gul, Chair Professor and Head of AF, said, "The FastTrack Programme aims at encouraging the cream of the crop to pursue their undergraduate studies at the School. It is a follow-through of the University's new scholarship scheme to provide more professional opportunities to prepare themselves for career success."
The students will be sponsored to participate in exchange activities in top universities in the Chinese mainland or overseas. The choices of destinations include Tsinghua University, Fudan University, Xian Jiaotong University, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, Xiamen University and prestigious universities in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United States.
Arrangements have also been made to place these students for internship for up to a semester in renowned international CPA firms, banks and listed companies in Hong Kong or Chinese mainland, for instance, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, Ernst and Young, KPMG and Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Jardine Matheson Limited etc. Some students will be granted internship exposure between a company's Hong Kong office and its office in the Chinese mainland. On completing the programme, these students will be nominated to compete for the prestigious "Citigroup Young Fellowship Programme". In line with the Faculty of Business's mission of developing students to qualify for the real world, students in this programme will be provided with ample opportunities in the Faculty's many leadership development programmes, such as "A Day with a Professional", "Faculty High Table Dinner" etc. The Faculty is also committed to giving special training to help these high potential students to participate, and excel in business competitions in Hong Kong and the Region such as "HSBC Young Entrepreneur Awards", "HKICPA QP Case Analysis Competition" and "ACCA Hong Kong Guangzhou Inter-tertiary Competition".
"Our students have always been well equipped with the professional skills and know-hows for their potential employers. We have confidence that the graduates from this FastTrack programme will leverage on the strengths of PolyU in the accounting and finance fields to become the most preferred accounting and finance graduates for international accounting firms and multinational financial institutions," stressed Prof. Tsui.
Since its inception in 1972, the School of Accounting and Finance is the longest established accounting school in Hong Kong with the largest provider of quality entrants into the accounting and finance professions. The School ranks the second place in the region in terms of quality finance research.
This year's applicants will be invited to an interview on 12 and 13 July 2006.
