
[date]2006.05.15[/date]
[title]PolyU Institute of Fashion Design Studio creates one-of-a-kind Fashion Design Studio to nourish talents of the fashion design industry[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) yesterday (15 May) officially opened its Fashion Design Studio on the PolyU campus.
The opening ceremony was officiated by Dr Kenneth Fang, Chairman of PolyU's Advisory Committee on Textile and Clothing Industries, Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, Chairman of PolyU Council, Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, President and Prof. Xiao-ming Tao, Head of the Institute. The ceremony was followed by a tour around the modern facilities and spacious environment in the Fashion Design Studio by guests.
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Victor Lo said, "Being a renowned tertiary institution which provides programmes in fashion and textile, ITC has a mission of nurturing future fashion designers through its staff strength, well-equipped facilities and close collaboration with the industry and community. The purpose of constructing this special Fashion Design Studio is to create an interactive and stimulating, yet relaxing environment essential to teaching, student-centred learning and research activities."
Prof. Poon Chung-kwong remarked, "Over the years, PolyU is dedicated to grooming professional talents for the fashion industry.  We are proud to see that more and more design graduates have made their marks in both local and international fashion markets, giving new impetus to the industry."  Distinguished past graduates include internationally renowned fashion designer Vivienne Tam who established her own brand in New York, Pacino Wan, Peter Lau, Chen Dao and Mary Yu. 
This 650 square meters Studio consists of four lecture rooms, two pattern construction laboratories, a project laboratory, 85 sets of design cubicles and lockers for students and a brainstorming area.   To meet various needs and purposes, the four lecture rooms can be turned into one large open lecture space accommodating over 100 students. All the projection screens are purposefully installed on the side of the windows to create an optimal visual effect for passers-by through the corridor without distracting the students who face the screens on the window side during lectures.
Both teaching staff and students will have access to the latest information on the industry and internal announcements which will be projected directly on one of the glass partitions situated in the info-spot right in the centre of the Studio.  Also, as a tool for sharing, recognition and encouragement of creativity, display units are in place for exhibitions of students' award-winning designs and project work.
Among the Institute's recent developments was the establishment of the Hong Kong's first "Research and Development Centre for Textile and Clothing" by the Government at the ITC.  Supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund, this Centre aims at facilitating researches on textile-and-clothing-related technologies.
Last year, ITC also celebrated the opening of the ACE Style Institute of Intimate Apparel which is a 120-square metre design studio, equipped with advanced computer systems and special equipment for intimate apparel studies. It provides a platform to promote exchange between local and overseas experts, supports teaching and research related to intimate apparel, and helps provide consultancy services for industry.
Through all these exciting and new developments, ITC will continue its endeavour to be a centre of excellence in educating and nurturing fashion design talents and textile research regionally and internationally. 
