
[date]2009.05.19[/date]
[title]PolyU's innovation honoured in UK[/title]
Prof. Albert Chan of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Building and Real Estate has been bestowed with the Innovation Achievers Award of the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB)'s International Innovation &amp; Research Awards 2008/9 for co-leading a team with Prof. Francis Wong in developing the Rapid Demountable Platform (RDP).   The RDP also won a Gold Medal with Jury's Congratulations and a special prize at the 36th International Exhibition Inventions, New Techniques and Product in Geneva, Switzerland last year. 
Jointly developed by PolyU and the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK), the RDP provides an alternative system for the repair and maintenance works on high-rise buildings, and is much safer than the traditional bamboo truss-out scaffold.   It is also part of a research study entitled "Construction safety involving working at height for residential building repair and maintenance" by PolyU and CII-HK. 
Unlike bamboo truss-out scaffold which relies on proper installation of a few anchor bolts fixed to external walls, the RDP is a robust and solidly built device with steel panels and fixtures.  It can be easily installed and dismantled within 15 minutes, thus providing workers with great convenience.  It can be attached to the window side of a residential flat and hung over the wall for workers to carry out their duties safely at height.
The CIOB is a UK-based leading professional institute representing over 42,000 members in the building and construction industries over the world.  Every year, the International Innovation and Research Awards will be presented to winners in recognition of their excellence in innovation and research that drives the development of the industry.  The Innovation Achievers Award aims to encourage the sharing of innovative ideas and practices for the benefits of members and practitioners of the construction industry.
