
[date]2006.06.01[/date]
[title]HKCC showcases creative works of budding designers[/title]
PolyU-affiliated Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), a leader in Associate Degree education, is staging its annual Design Graduation Show to showcase the works of its graduating associate degree students in various design disciplines to the public.  The theme of this year's graduation show is "Energy" and the exhibition consists of designs from 40 graduates in various art forms, including graphic and interior designs as well as products.The Design Graduation Show was kicked off yesterday (1 June) by Dr Simon Leung, Director of HKCC, and Prof. Lorraine Justice, Head of PolyU's School of Design. Speaking at the opening ceremony, Dr. Simon Leung said, "From looking at the exhibits, I can tell that our students are full of versatility and creativity.  Their works are the unspoken words of their talents, passion and dreams.  I am confident that these budding designers will be assets to the design industry in the future."  Also at the opening ceremony, a $20,000 scholarship was awarded to a team of six students who participated in the Paroles Magazine Design Layout Project collaborated by HKCC and Alliance Française. With concerted efforts, the team designed a creative layout template for Paroles, a bi-monthly publication of Alliance Française, with a circulation of 5,000 copies worldwide. The Design Graduation Show is open to the public until 7 June 2006 at 10.00 a.m. - 8.00 p.m. daily in Rooms N112 ' N116 on the PolyU campus.In order to nurture all-round future leaders of the society, HKCC regularly provides various summer scholarship schemes for students, including summer schools, internship and job placements, study tours and community services in different countries. This summer alone, scholarships totaling over $620,000 were awarded to nearly 250 outstanding students selected from 1,500 applicants. These awardees would have the opportunities to gain valuable experience in Brisbane and Melbourne in Australia; Vancouver in Canada; New York, Vermont, Texas, Michigan and New Hampshire in the USA; and nine cities in the Mainland including Beijing, Shanghai, Qingdao, Shenyang, Fuzhou, Zhongshan, Guangzhou, Changzhou and Xian. Dr. Simon Leung remarked, "HKCC puts in a lot of resources in the whole-person development of students.  The aim of introducing these different scholarships for students to work or study overseas is to help strengthen their communication and language skills with a global perspective.  Also, students will have the chance to learn to appreciate different cultures, heritage and lifestyles when making new friends overseas." Previous awardees of the scholarships found the overseas' training and experience provided them with valuable opportunities to expand their global outlook.HKCC always emphasizes the provision of holistic education to students.  At HKCC, students are not only taught on professional knowledge, but also being instilled the thinking of self-confidence in their own potentials and strengths for better achievements.     
