
[date]2006.06.24[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to donors of Trees-Chairs-Bricks Sponsorship Campaign 2005/06[/title]
To pay tribute to donors in recognition of their support in funding the enhancement of all-round development of its students, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosted a special naming ceremony on campus yesterday (24 June) for its Trees-Chairs-Bricks Sponsorship Campaign 2005/06. During the year, the campaign won the support of 272 benefactors who have donated more than $6.5 million in total.
Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council Mr Roy Chung Chi-ping and PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong were officiating at the ceremony.
Addressing the donors during the ceremony, Mr Chung said, "Among the enthusiastic donors are alumni from different generations, staff, students, and friends and collaborators from the industrial and commercial sectors. We are very grateful to and truly encouraged by their unfailing support to PolyU."
PolyU Trees-Chairs-Bricks Sponsorship Campaign honours the donors by having their names marked on trees, bricks, and seats of the lecture theatres on the university campus in recognition of their immense support. This year, there are 69 trees, 48 seats and 164 bricks around the campus newly marked with the names of the donors. Since its introduction in October 2003, the campaign has gained support from 518 individual and organization benefactors.
Support to PolyU from the society can also be revealed by the result the University attains in the Matching Grant Scheme launched by University Grants Committee. Prof. Poon reported in the ceremony, "During the second round of the scheme, PolyU has received generous support from 5,225 donors who have altogether raised about HK$190 million, which is one of the largest amount raised among all the local tertiary institutions."
Prof. Poon added, "More than 60% of the fund raised came from the industrial and commercial sectors, demonstrating that PolyU has won extensive support across the society. Support from the donors enables PolyU to receive about HK$80 million from the Matching Grant Scheme. The fund and the grant are tremendously useful to PolyU's long term development, especially in nurturing talents for the competitive strength of Hong Kong."
Under the Matching Grant Scheme, which was first launched in 2003, the Government matched dollar-for-dollar the cash donations the University received in order to encourage private donation. 
