
[date]2006.05.25[/date]
[title]SPEED International Summer School Scholarship helps broaden students' global outlook[/title]
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University yesterday (25 May 2006) held an award presentation ceremony for its International Summer School Scholarships. This year marks the third anniversary of the scholarship scheme which has provided excellent opportunities for students to expand their international horizon through summer school studies at overseas universities.
This year, after a vigorous round of selection, the scholarships were awarded to nine students from various programmes who possess both outstanding academic accomplishments and achievements in extra-curricular activities. Each of them was granted HK$25,000 to finance his/her study at one of the six participating universities in the United States or Canada for a period of 6 to 8 weeks during the summer holidays.  
The scholarships are open to all full-time and part-time undergraduate students undertaking top-up degree programmes leading to PolyU SPEED awards. A maximum of 10 scholarships are awarded each year. Upon return from summer school studies, awardees are required to submit a written reflective report for his/her experiences gained.   
Since the launch of this scheme in 2004, 25 students who studied in Marketing and Public Relations, International Business, Travel Industry Management and Housing Management had been sponsored by this scheme to take summer school courses overseas and most of them took this opportunity to further enhance their communication skills and personal development. The awardees from previous years expressed that the scholarships had provided them with a rewarding lifetime experience in making friends from different cultures.     Addressing the ceremony, Dr Dennis Chan, Director of SPEED remarked, "A global mindset is vital to a successful career, especially in an international city like Hong Kong.  This scholarship scheme is valuable to students who are given a chance to gain global perspectives which will definitely help their future careers in Hong Kong or anywhere else in the world."
Dr Chan also said that, as an advocate of personal development of long-term values, SPEED regularly organizes a wide array of extra-curricular activities to enrich students' school life. These activities include mentorship programme, alumni networking and interaction with teachers outside classrooms.
SPEED spearheads lifelong learning by offering short courses, full-time and part-time programmes ranging from pre-associate degree to doctoral level leading to PolyU SPEED awards or overseas academic awards through close collaboration with overseas reputable education institutions. SPEED also offers a flexible and unique Credit Accumulation Mechanism (CAM) which enables learners to study at their own pace and accumulate credits which are valid for lifetime. 
