
[date]2010.02.02[/date]
[title]PolyU and Israel Consulate-General jointly present Lecture on President Obama and Middle East Conflict[/title]
The Faculty of Humanities (FH) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), in partnership with the Israel Consulate-General in Hong Kong, have invited internationally renowned scholar Professor Gerald Steinberg, Professor of Political Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel, to give a general education lecture on the campus today (2 February).
It is also the first time that PolyU partnered with a consulate in presenting a general education lecture. Professor Huang Chu-ren, Dean of FH, expressed his sincerest gratitude to the Israel Consulate-General for giving full support to arranging this exclusive lecture at PolyU during Professor Steinberg's sojourn in Hong Kong.
Entitled "President Barack Obama's first year in the Middle East: A conflict-management perspective", the lecture started with a welcoming address and introduction of the speaker's profile by Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (Marketing, Internationalisation &amp; Advanced Executive Education)-Designate and Dean of the Faculty of Business. Professor Huang is the moderator of the lecture. This event has received positive response and participants are enlightened by the insights of Professor Steinberg on the topic.
Professor Steinberg is the founder of the Programme on Conflict Management at Bar IIan University, Israel. He is also President of www.NGO-Monitor.org. His research focuses on power, diplomacy, negotiations and conflict management in the Middle East, and he has written extensively on Arab-Israeli negotiations, the role of domestic politics, and "soft power" dimensions, including the politics of international law and NGOs.
His media analyses are published in the Wall Street Journal and Jerusalem Post, and he is also a frequent commentator on radio and television. His academic publications include Unripeness and Conflict Management: Re-examining the Oslo Process and Its Lessons, Israel and the US: Can the Special Relationship Survive in the New Strategic Environment? and The UN, the ICJ and the Separation Barrier: War by Other Means.
