
[date]2006.05.08[/date]
[title]PolyU names Phase Seven campus after Dr Lee Shau Kee[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Council has officially named its newest building on campus after Dr Lee Shau-kee, Chairman of the Hendersen Land Group, in recognition of Dr Lee's contribution to education and longstanding support to the University.
A commemorative plaque marking the occasion was officially unveiled yesterday (8 May) at a special ceremony by Dr Lee; PolyU Council Chairman Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, and PolyU President Professor Poon Chung-kwong.
During the first phase of the Government's Matching Grant Scheme, Dr Lee generously donated $45 million to PolyU in the name of the Lee Shau Kee Foundation. His benefaction enabled PolyU to secure an equal amount from the Government, thus adding up the total amount to $90 million.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Lo expressed his gratitude to Dr Lee on behalf of the University Council. He said, "Over the years, PolyU has groomed 240,000 graduates, many of whom have provided impetus for the growth of our economy. In realizing our mission of nurturing professional and management talents for Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland in the 21st century, we counts very much upon the support of visionary community leaders such as Dr Lee.
"Of the many contributions that Dr Lee has made to PolyU, there is a particular one that we will never forget.
"In 2003, when Hong Kong was at the ebb of an economic downturn, Dr Lee generously donated a vast sum of money to PolyU in support of its development. This timely assistance not only provided great encouragement to all of us, but also testified his immense support to education and PolyU in particular."
Prof. Poon is happy to note that PolyU's application-oriented focus on teaching and research has won support by Dr Lee, the university community and the general public. He proudly reported that PolyU has raised close to HK$190 million in the second Matching Grants Scheme.
He added that over 60 per cent of the donations came from the commercial and business sector, which clearly demonstrated their strong support to PolyU. On the other hand, close to 5,000 donors, of which 4,000 were alumni, also made contributions to PolyU, and thus clearly reflected the affection and support from the alumni towards their alma mater.
"Donations are conducive for the long-term development of the University. We will make use of the donations for the full benefit of our society by offering quality programmes, conducting applied researches and providing professional services. We are determined to nurture talents for Hong Kong and the country."
A renowned entrepreneur and benefactor of Hong Kong, Dr Lee Shau-kee is the Chairman and Managing Director of Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. and Henderson Investment Limited. Over the years, Dr Lee has given support and encouragement to PolyU in many ways. He joined the University Court as a founding member in 1995 and since then has ceaselessly offered his time and advice to the University. In 1997, PolyU conferred on Dr Lee an Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration in recognition of his tremendous contribution to the development of the Hong Kong economy.
Apart from this, Dr Lee is also a generous supporter of education. Through Lee Shau Kee Foundation and Pei Hua Education Foundation Co. Ltd, of which he is the founder, he sponsors education with special concern on the development of education and research in Chinese communities. Dr. Lee was awarded Honorary Citizen by the Municipal People's Governments of Shunde, Guangzhou, Foshan and Beijing.
Located in the northeast corner of the PolyU campus, the Lee Shau Kee Building is a 14-storey complex with a total gross floor area of 25,000 square metres. As the major construction of the Phase Seven campus development project, the complex is well equipped with state-of-the-art research facilities and laboratories of high safety standard, greatly strengthening PolyU's research capability and facilitating its professional teaching and applied research.
The building houses also classrooms, conference rooms, lecture theatres, staff offices and a podium for recreational purposes. Its brick-red exterior matches with the general colour tone of the campus. Built on the site of a former staff quarters and a two-storey structure, the building was planned and designed in 2002, and has been gradually open for used by students and staff since August 2005.
