
[date]2006.06.26[/date]
[title]PolyU's "Kalitta Air Award" injects new talents into aviation industry[/title]
Department of Logistics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Kalitta Air jointly organized the "Kalitta Air Award 2006" competition to enhance PolyU students' understanding of the development and operation of the aviation industry. Co-sponsored by the Airport Authority Hong Kong, the competition was held on PolyU campus on 17 June 2006.
This is the second year of collaboration between the department and Kalitta Air in organizing this activity. Managerial members from Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong Express Airways and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking were on the judge panel. All PolyU students were eligible to team up to participate in the competition. After conducting quantitative and qualitative research studies, applying academic knowledge, and bringing in innovative ideas, the teams were to present to the judges their analysis and comprehension of the aviation industry.
Twelve teams were competing for the Award this year. After the initial presentation, five teams beat the rest to enter the final. The championship finally went to a team which comprised five final-year students on Global Supply Chain Management. Their detailed study on the competition between freight forwarders and integrators in the future aviation transportation industry earned them the award.
Yeung Kin-sun, group leader of the champion team, said, "From collecting secondary data to interviewing industry stakeholders, we conducted a great deal of preparatory study on the topic. Through this exercise, we have really got a good picture of the industry and developed our interest in it. We hope we can develop our career in the aviation industry after graduation."
Kalitta Air's General Manager (Asia) Mr David Sung remarked, "The main objective of the competition is to let students apply what they have learned in the classroom into real life situations, putting theories into practices. In the competition, they are required to not only come up with a strategic plan for the industry but also demonstrate team spirit." Agreeing with Mr Sung, Dr Daniel Ng, Associate Head of Department of Logistics, added that the objective of the award was in line with the motto of the university, which reads "to learn and to apply".
Mr Henry Ho, a PolyU Logistics graduate who won the same award last year, has started his career in the aviation transportation industry as a terminal services officer in Kalitta Air.
