
[date]2009.05.05[/date]
[title]PolyU names Maritime Library and Research &amp; Development Centre after shipping magnate Dr Frank Tsao Wen-king[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (4 May) named its Maritime Library and Research &amp; Development Centre (the Centre) after Dr Frank Tsao Wen-king, Founder and Senior Chairman of IMC Group, in appreciation of a $10 million benefaction from IMC Hong Kong International Shipping and Transport Logistics Foundation Limited for the Centre's further advancement in education, training and research. The financial support provides resources for its students, academics and the maritime community.
Officiating at the IMC-Frank Tsao Maritime Library and Research &amp; Development Centre opening ceremony were Dr Frank Tsao Wen-king; Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, PolyU Council Chairman; Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; and Prof. Judy Tsui, PolyU Associate Vice President, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of Graduate School of Business. About 100 guests attended the ceremony, among them were Mr Tung Chee-hwa, Vice-Chairman of Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the Hon. Eva Cheng, Secretary for Transport and Housing, Miss Janice Tse, Deputy Secretary of Transport &amp; Housing (Transport), Mr Chan Ming Kwong, Chief Assistant Secretary for Transport and Housing (Transport), Mr Francis Liu, Deputy Director of Marine, Marine Department, HKSAR government, and the Hon. Miriam Lau, Legislative Councillor.  Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Victor Lo said, 'Over the years, PolyU is most privileged to have enjoyed ardent support from community leaders and philanthropists like Dr Tsao. His generous donation will further boost our efforts in enhancing maritime education and research in PolyU. I am sure students and faculties using the facilities will be very grateful to Dr Tsao's contributions.'
Dr Tsao said, 'I would like to express my gratitude to the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Council and the Marine Department of the HKSAR government who are prepared to participate in the development of this Centre not only financially but also through inputs from their key personnel.  I do hope that through our joint effort with PolyU, we can achieve results which are satisfactory to all of us.'
Prof. Timothy W. Tong expressed his gratitude to Dr Tsao and remarked, 'The Centre has set itself a mission of enhancing the competitiveness of Hong Kong's marine industry through advancing professional maritime education and training, conducting related researches and providing the latest maritime business resources. Thanks to this sizable donation, we will be able to launch the Centre's newest initiatives to support maritime students and academics, as well as to advance the maritime community.'Dr Frank Tsao Wen-king, Founder and Senior Chairman of IMC Group, is a pioneer and acclaimed veteran in contemporary China shipping history.  He bought in 1949 his first ship and co-founded the Great Southern Steamship Co. Ltd. In 1966, he founded International Maritime Carriers Ltd. (IMC) in Hong Kong.  Under his leadership, IMC has become a leading diversified group engaged in maritime shipping, logistics, oil &amp; gas business, real estate and palm plantation with more than 6,800 employees in 15 countries.
Dr Tsao plays a pivotal role in the growth of the maritime industry and in promoting maritime education and research. In 1968, he supported the Malaysian Government in establishing the country's first national shipping line ' the Malaysian International Shipping Corporation Bhd. In 2005, he contributed to the establishment of the Centre for Maritime Studies at the National University of Singapore and was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. He played a key role in setting up the permanent secretariat of Asian Shipowners Forum in 2007. Dr Tsao subsidizes university students in China and nurtures maritime professionals with scholarships to Dalian Maritime University, Jimei University, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Tsinghua University and Tongji University. He also contributed to the establishment of seafarer training schools in Zhoushan and Qingdao.
Dr Tsao won many honours. In 1973, he was conferred the title of Tan Sri by the King of Malaysia. In 1999, he was awarded 'Personality of the Year' by Lloyds Maritime Asia. In 2002, he was the first person in Asia awarded "CMA Commodore" by the Connecticut Maritime Association of the US. In 2006, he was named Honorary Citizen by the Dalian Municipal Government, awarded Silver Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong SAR government and conferred Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration by PolyU. In 2008, he was conferred the 2007 Honorary Citizen Award by the Singapore Government and received the Lifetime Achievement Award by Seatrade.
As one of the best equipped international maritime centre in the region, the IMC-Frank Tsao Maritime Library and Research and Development Centre strives to offer maritime education and training, conduct related research and provide the latest maritime resources to advance the development of Hong Kong's maritime industry. The Centre will consult and co-operate with the Hong Kong Maritime Industry Council and the Marine Department of the HKSAR Government on research and development initiatives to meet the industry needs.
