
[date]2006.05.23[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organize a Consultation Day for its full-time degree and sub-degree programmes applicants on campus this Saturday, 27 May.
The Consultation Day will provide an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) applicants to obtain detailed information on PolyU programmes, admission requirements and career prospects before the deadline (29 May 2006) for addition, amendment and reprioritization of their JUPAS programme choices. Consultation sessions, information seminars and guided visits will be arranged on the day for interested JUPAS applicants, parents and careers teachers of secondary schools.
On the Consultation Day, academic departments will offer programme counselling and hold information seminars for JUPAS applicants.  Admission staff will be there to answer queries and discuss with JUPAS applicants the strategy for programme selection, plus to provide information on the calculation of admission scores, tactics for programme reprioritization and scholarships for JUPAS admittees. In addition, Student Ambassadors will share their experiences of programme selection, admissions interviews and study placements with JUPAS applicants.
Also, representatives from the Student Affairs Office will introduce the financial assistance schemes, placements and all-round development opportunities offered at PolyU.
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, will also join the Consultation Day to give in-depth information on Associate Degree Programmes to interested parties.
PolyU is well-known internationally for its application-oriented programmes.  It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from higher diploma and bachelor's degree to master's and doctoral degrees.  Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of Design, Engineering Physics, Fashion and Textiles Studies, Geomatics, International Shipping and Transport Logistics, Medical Laboratory Science, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Physiotherapy and Radiography.
In the 2006/07 academic year, the University will offer a total of 59 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE entry, including 41 at degree and 18 at sub-degree levels.
In line with PolyU's objective of promoting all-round education, the university will continue to implement the "JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations", "Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme" and "Non-academic Achievements Self Recommendation Scheme" in this year's admission exercise.  In addition, PolyU has introduced new Scholarship Schemes for students with outstanding academic or non-academic achievements. For details of the Scholarship Schemes, please visit http://www18.polyu.edu.hk/e-prospectus/ft/fees.jsp?title_id=245.
Further details on the Consultation Day can be found at the PolyU website:   https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday2006/.
