
[date]2010.01.15[/date]
[title]PolyU celebrates success of student-athletes in EAG[/title]
Fourteen student-athletes from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) had the chance of competing in the Hong Kong 2009 East Asian Games (EAG) last December. Their untiring efforts have contributed to Hong Kong's best-ever results at the Games by winning four gold, four silver and two bronze medals out of the 110 medals captured by host city.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong today (15 January) hosted a celebration party on the university campus to commend the outstanding performances of the student-athletes in the EAG. Officiating at the party was the Hon. Timothy Fok Tsun-ting, President of the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China and Legislative Councillor (Sports, Performing Arts, Culture and Publication Functional Constituency) and he presented souvenirs to the athletes who participated in the Games.
Speaking at the occasion, Professor Tong said, "The achievements of the student-athletes in the East Asian Games not only bring honour and pride to the University, but also to the community at large. Their contributions to the record-breaking success of Hong Kong in the East Asian Games have once again proved that our endeavours to promote students' all-round development are reaping encouraging results."
The PolyU squad participated in six events of the EAG, including Athletics, Rowing, Rugby Sevens, Squash, Swimming and Volleyball. The most outstanding were the squash player Miss Annie Au Wing-chi and her younger brother Mr Au Chun-ming. The two siblings together clinched four gold and two silver medals. Swimmer Mr Yan Ho-chun also set a new Hong Kong record in Men's 50m Butterfly Stroke.
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU has been giving due consideration to students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. In the 2009/2010 academic year, 60 students are admitted to the University via the Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme, 41 through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations Scheme, and 1,421 through the Self Recommendation Scheme.
