
[date]2005.10.24[/date]
[title]PolyU signs agreement with Shandong Provincial Tourism Administration[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University will help Shandong Province to develop its tourism by organizing customized training programmes for tourism practitioners in Shandong.
In a memorandum of understanding signed between Mr Li Deming, Director-General of Shandong Provincial Tourism Administration (SPTA) and Professor Kaye Chon, Chair Professor &amp; Head of SHTM, SHTM will also foster cooperation with the local tourism industry in holding international events and undertake joint research projects.
With the Chinese Government's announcement that the 2008 Beijing Olympics water sports games will be held in Qingdao, one of the major cities in Shandong, 154 related projects with an estimated gross investment of US$9.1 billion are being planned. This will lead to many exciting developments in the tourism industry over the next few years especially.
Recognizing this important opportunity for Shandong Province, both SHTM and SPTA decided to begin collaboration in tourism education, training, research and events to further enhance tourism standards and to contribute to the development of hotel and tourism professionals in Shandong.
"One of the biggest challenges in the hotel and tourism industry today is developing human resources talents and capacity building," said Professor Chon. "I am sure that our School and SPTA will be able to join hands together and work towards the development of well-trained human resources and capacities in the hotel and tourism industry in Shandong Province. We are looking forward to a fruitful relationship with SPTA in the future."
Shandong Province is the second largest province by population in the mainland with 90 million inhabitants, and is one of the most well developed provinces in China with tremendous tourism potential. With beautiful natural landscapes and numerous historical and cultural relics, Shandong has rich tourist resources and offers a string of tourist attractions, such as Mount Taishan and the Temple Mansion. The six cities in the Shandong Peninsula are exemplary to the rest of the nation for their economic development and tourism.
SHTM is widely recognized as a global leader in hospitality and tourism education. The School was recognized by World Tourism Organization as one of the world's 16 centres of travel and tourism education - and the only one in Asia. In 2002, the School was ranked number 15 in the world among some 3,000 universities and colleges in hotel and tourism management, and in the August 2005 issue of Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Research, the School was ranked fourth in the world based on research.
