
[date]2006.06.09[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 5th Pan Pacific Conference on Rehabilitation[/title]
More than 300 leading experts in rehabilitation sciences and sports medicine from over 15 countries and territories will gather at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 9 to 11 June to participate in the Fifth Pan-Pacific Conference on Rehabilitation (PPCR), with the theme of "Marching Towards Olympics 2008".
Jointly organized by PolyU's Centre for East-meets-West in Rehabilitation Sciences and International Federation of Sports Medicine (FIMS), the three-day conference is strategically held prior to the World Congress of Sports Medicine 2006 in Beijing. It was officially kicked off  Prof. Suleyman Demokan, PolyU Vice-President and Prof. Christina Hui-Chan, Chair Professor of PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences; at a special ceremony held yesterday (9 June) on the university campus.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Demokan said PolyU is privileged to host this large-scale conference with a well-chosen theme. He further mentioned that PolyU has been designated by the Chinese Olympic Committee's Science and Education Department as its first collaborative research partner for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The University will send forth its inter-disciplinary experts to provide professional services to the Chinese athletes during the Beijing Olympic Games.
Prof. Hui-Chan said the Conference aims to provide a forum for exchanging state-of-the-art information among sports physicians, therapists, scientists, government officials, coaches and athletes. The programme for this conference will include keynote lectures on a diverse range of sports-related topics.
A number of prominent international and local scholars and experts have been invited as the keynote and plenary speakers of the Conference. They include Dr. Chan Wai Man, Assistant Director (Family and Elderly Health Services) of the Government's Department of Health;  Prof. Peter McNair, Director of Physical Rehabilitation Research Centre and Professor of School of Physiotherapy, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand; Prof. Steven Wolf, Professor of Geriatrics from Emory University, US; Prof. Stephen H.S. Wong, Department of Sports Science and Physical Education, the Chinese University of Hong Kong; and Prof. Gabriel Ng of PolyU.
The plenary speeches and group discussion of the Conference are grouped under four sub-themes, namely Sports for All, Performance Enhancement, Sports Injury and Rehabilitation, and East-meets-West in Sports and Health Promotion.
Several hands-on workshops are being organized before and after the Conference to provide rehabilitation practitioners and sports physicians with latest information on advanced practices in sports rehabilitation.
