
[date]2005.12.12[/date]
[title]World-class Experts attend Symposium on Molecular Technology[/title]
A Nobel Laureate in Chemistry and many Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) yesterday (12 Dec) gathered on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to attend the Symposium on Molecular Technology for Drug Discovery and Synthesis.
Prof. Ryori Noyori, a co-recipient of 2001 Nobel Prize in Chemistry and Director of the Research Centre for Materials Science of Nagoya University in Japan, has made a special trip to attend this symposium and delivered a keynote lecture on the topic "Pursuing Practical Elegance in Chemical Synthesis".
PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said the presence of Prof. Noyori and other top-notch academics has undoubtedly provided a strong boost to the further development of the University's Area of Excellence (AoE) "The Hong Kong Institute of Molecular Technology for Drug Discovery and Synthesis".
He added that PolyU is truly grateful for the support and guidance of Prof. Noyori over the years. Prof. Noyori was conferred the title of Distinguished Honorary Professor by the then Chairman of PolyU Council Sir Gordon Wu in 2002.
During the one-day Symposium, many CAS Members also talked on the latest development of molecular technology and its applications to the pharmaceutical industry. They included Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles; Prof. Che Chi-ming and Prof. Vivian Yam from the Department of Chemistry of the University of Hong Kong; and Prof. Henry Wong from the Department of Chemistry of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Prof. Albert Chan added that PolyU has been working with top-notch scholars at home and abroad to push ahead with the development of chirotechnology - an emerging technology which is also the subject of study at PolyU's Area of Excellence (AoE).
The study of chirotechnology is also the research interest of many Nobel Laureates. As co-recipients of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Prof. Noyori and Dr William Knowles were laureated "for their work on chirally catalysed hydrogenation reactions" and Prof. Barry Sharpless "for his work on chirally catalysed oxidation reactions". They have been appointed Distinguished Honorary Professor of PolyU since 2002.
The AoE initiative on "The Hong Kong Institute of Molecular Technology for Drug Discovery and Synthesis" is led by Prof. Albert Chan of PolyU and Prof. Che Chi-ming of the University of Hong Kong. It was awarded a $48 million grant by the University Grants Committee in its second round of AoE selection exercise in 2001.
