
[date]2006.07.04[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes workshop and consortium meeting on innovating future healthcare[/title]
About 200 delegates attended the Innovating Future Healthcare Workshop and Consortium Meeting held on the university campus on 27 June. The delegates included government representatives, medical professionals from 11 hospitals and 24 medical and healthcare companies, and staff members from 22 departments of the University.
The Workshop was organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s newly-established Research Institute of Innovative Products and Technologies (RIIPT). It was co-sponsored by various organizations including the Hospital Authority, Innovation and Technology Commission, Biomedical Division of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers and health departments of the University.   
Officiating at the opening ceremony were Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, and Dr Liu Shao-haei, Deputy Director (Professional Services), Hospital Authority.  
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, "Healthcare and product design are among PolyU's niche areas. We have very strong health departments to support teaching, research and development of healthcare products and services."
Dr Liu echoed that innovation is the way to go for healthcare services and its importance is emphasized in all hospitals in Hong Kong.
According to Prof. Wallace Leung, Director of RIIPT, the Institute is currently collaborating closely with the University's various departments to engineer healthcare products and services to meet the needs of society.
During the Workshop, the latest findings in healthcare technologies were released by the University's researchers and invited speakers. The topics covered in the Workshop included: Advances in Technologies and Services, Pervasive Healthcare, Advances in Instrumentation and Software Tools, Biomarkers and Biometrics, Community-based and Home-based Healthcare. 
The Workshop was followed by a Healthcare Consortium meeting which was attended by about 60 delegates. They included medical professionals, university researchers and representatives from medical companies. During the meeting, the admission requirements, terms and benefits of Consortium members were introduced. The interests and needs of the participants were also solicited. The meeting provided a forum for the exchange of new ideas and experiences in the important area of healthcare and a platform for future partnership and collaboration. 
