
[date]2006.06.16[/date]
[title]SPEED partners with prestigious institutions to groom LLB students[/title]
School of Professional Education and Executive Development (SPEED) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University signed a five-year collaboration agreement with Kemayan Advance Tertiary College (KATC) of Malaysia and Intech Training Centre (ITC) of Singapore yesterday (16 June 2006) in the provision of the Preparatory Programme for Bachelor of Laws (LLB), an external programme of the University of London.
This collaboration agreement spelt out the details of cooperation between the three parties. In future, lecturers from KATC will join forces with the teaching staff of ITC to provide excellent and exclusive teaching in Hong Kong for students studying in this Preparatory Programme while SPEED is responsible for the overall programme management.    The agreement was signed by Prof. Thomas K. S. Wong, Dean of the PolyU-affiliated College of Professional and Continuing Education, Dr Danny Choong Ewe Leong, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of KATC, and Ms Ananthi Durai Raj, Chief Executive Officer of ITC School of Laws, and witnessed by Dr Dennis Chan, Director of SPEED and Mr Kevin Leong Weng Onn, Head of Hong Kong Operation of KATC. 
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Prof. Thomas Wong remarked, "The law degree of the University of London is of international standing. With KATC's tradition of excellence in producing first and second class honours graduates in the University of London's external law programme and ITC's track record of nurturing graduates with outstanding academic results, plus the excellent teaching facilities and programme administration provided by SPEED, this tripartite collaboration will definitely form a strong teaching force which is most vital to the success of the students."   The world-class teaching KATC is reflected in its students' average pass rate of over 90% in LLB examinations. Also, ITC is the only specialist law school in Singapore which exclusively provides legal education successfully.
Dr Dennis Chan said, "The programme is tailor-made for the students to prepare for the examinations and to obtain qualification of the University of London LLB programme. The number of students enrolled on the programme has grown over the years from 130 in 2003 to 350 in 2005. Leveraged on the advantages of KATC and ITC, we have confidence in training top notch law professionals." 
Each course of this part-time preparatory programme consists of at least 60 hours of lectures and 20 hours of revision workshops conducted on PolyU campus. The intensive revision workshops are tailor-made to enhance examination prowess with emphasis on latest changes in the law. Face-to-face teaching will be complemented by comprehensive course materials, including lecture notes, seminar packs and revision planners. Apart from the PolyU library, KATC and ITC online resources are also readily available for students.     
The Preparatory Programme for LLB offered at SPEED is now open for application. Details can be found on the homepage of SPEED at http://www.speed.polyu.edu.hk
 
