
[date]2006.01.08[/date]
[title]800-strong PolyU team walk for charity[/title]
Despite the chilly weather, some 800 members of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) once again showed their commitment to community welfare by participating in the Community Chest's Walks for Millions yesterday (8 January). The funds raised from this Walk will be used to provide 'Services for the Elderly' through the Chest's member social welfare agencies and service units.
Led by the University President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang and Vice President Dr Lui Sun-wing, the PolyU team set off for the walk from Hong Kong Stadium. Staff members from nearly 40 academic departments and administrative offices, joined by undergraduate and postgraduate students, alumni and their companions, contributed their efforts toward this charitable event. 
'Over the years, this charitable event has helped foster a strong sense of belonging among PolyU members and provided an excellent opportunity for us to show our concern for the needy. It is the fourteenth consecutive year that our University has participated in this meaningful activity and I am pleased that close to 800 PolyU members have continuously given their strong support to this university-wide event this year,' said Prof. Poon.
During the walk, all PolyU team members put on the windbreakers generously sponsored by Si Sport, and catering services were generously provided by Asia Pacific Catering in support of the University's participation. The route of this year ran from Hong Kong Stadium, passed through Wong Nai Chung Gap Road, Black's Link, Aberdeen Reservoir Road and finished at Aberdeen Country Park Visitors Centre.
PolyU has participated in the Walk for Millions since 1993. Over the past 13 years, around 10,000 PolyU members have participated in the Walk for Millions and raised more than $2.8 million for the Chest. Last year, the PolyU team attained the second Top Fund-raiser Award in the New Territories Walk with its donation of over $190,000 to the Community Chest.    
