
[date]2006.06.27[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes automobile design and advanced materials symposium[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) organized a symposium on automobile design and advanced materials last week to explore the research development in the mainland especially in HKSAR in design and advanced materials for the automotive industry and to devise strategies for grooming automobile design professionals and developing the industry.
Organized by PolyU, the symposium was supported by Hong Kong Auto Parts Industry Association, Automobile Components Group of The Federation of Hong Kong Industries, Hong Kong R &amp; D Centre for Automotive Parts and Accessory Systems and SAE International Hong Kong Section.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, "Being an application-oriented university, PolyU is interested in the future development of automotive industry in the Chinese mainland. Recently, the automotive market in the mainland has been growing rapidly and the number of automobiles produced by China will soon surpass Japan, making it the second largest market following the US. However, there is still a gap between China and other international markets in research development in automobile design and advanced materials. It is hoped that the symposium can provide a forum to address the issue and analyse the competitive advantage of Hong Kong in this area."
The symposium was attended by representatives from the Department of High &amp; New Tech. Development &amp; Industrialization of the Ministry of Science and Technology; research and development professionals of some major automobile corporations in the mainland as well as heads of departments which specialize in automobile design and advanced materials in some mainland universities.
A number of prominent scholars and experts attended the symposium. They include: Wang Qian, Director of the Materials Division, Department of High &amp; New Tech. Development &amp; Industrialization of the Ministry of Science and Technology; Dr Xu Jian, Vice Director of the Institute of Chemistry of the Chinese Academy of Sciences; Prof. Xu Kewei, Director of Xi'an Municipal Science &amp; Technology Bureau, Dr. Xu Min, Vice President and President of the Automotive Engineering and Research Institute of Chery Automobile Company Limited; Dr. Qi Guojun, Executive Vice President in charge of the Passenger Vehicle Product Development, Chery Automobile Company Limited; Mr Alex C.H. Yang, Vice President of Geely Automobile Research Institute Company Limited; Mr. Zhou Ya, Deputy Director of the Institute of Research for Automotive Engineering of Chang An automotive Group Co.; Mr Wu Tao, Assistant President of the R&amp;D center of the China FAW Group Co., Ms Yu Yanying, Manager of Body Design Section, China FAW Group Co. R&amp;D Center, Mr Wei Wutao, Vice Chief Engineer of Shaanxi Fast Auto Drive Group Company Limited; Dr. Fang Yucheng, General Manager of the Powder Metallurgy &amp; Environment Technology Division of Advanced Technology &amp; Materials Company Limited; Prof. Liu Qing, Dean of the School of the Material Science and Engineering of Chongqing University; Prof. Li Keqiang, Deputy Director of the Department of Automotive Engineering, Tsinghua University; Ir Gao Deming, Vice Director of R&amp;D of the Shanghai Huizhong Automotive Manufacturing Company Limited; Dr Tony Lee, Interim Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong R &amp; D Centre for Automotive Parts and Accessory Systems; Mr Gordon Chan, President of the Hong Kong Auto Parts Industry Association; Mr Simon Leung, President of the SAE International, Hong Kong Section; Prof. Ko Jan-ming, Chair Professor and PolyU Vice President (Research Development), Prof. Alex Wai, Chair Professor and Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Lu Jian, Chair Professor and Head of PolyU's Department of Mechanical Engineering.
During the symposium, participants also made a tour of PolyU's Industrial Centre as well as some departments which are related to the automotive industry. It was generally agreed by the participants of the symposium that grooming automobile design professionals is one of the most stringent needs of China's automotive industry.  The participants also expressed a strong interest to the talk given by Dr Tony Lee, Interim CEO, Hong Kong R &amp; D Centre for Automotive Parts and Accessory Systems, on the future development of the Hong Kong R &amp; D Centre for Automotive Parts and Accessory Systems.  They believed Hong Kong will play a special role in the future development of automotive industry in the Chinese mainland.
