
[date]2009.08.11[/date]
[title]PolyU scholar honoured for dedication to hospitality research and education[/title]
Professor Cathy Hsu, Associate Director of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has recently been honoured by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) with the John Wiley &amp; Sons Lifetime Research Achievement Award.
The John Wiley &amp; Sons Lifetime Research Achievement Award recognizes an I-CHRIE member for lifetime contributions to outstanding scholarship and research in hospitality and tourism. It is given to an I-CHRIE member who has made and continues to make significant contributions to the field of hospitality and tourism through scholarly research published in hospitality and non-hospitality journals over an extended period.
The Award was presented to Professor Hsu at the 2009 I-CHRIE Conference held in San Francisco, USA, from 29 July to 1 August. It recognizes Professor Hsu's outstanding leadership in her field of study, and the invaluable contributions she has made to the global hospitality and tourism education development in a teaching and research career spanning 20 years.
Professor Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director of SHTM, said, 'We are justly proud of Professor Hsu's achievement. The Award further cements her status as the established authority in her chosen area of research, which is hospitality and tourism marketing and casino gaming.'
Professor Hsu has received numerous honours and awards over the years, including the Best Article of the Year Award from the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in 2000, the Best Paper Award at 2000 and 2001 CHRIE and 2005 APacCHRIE conferences, and the Michael D. Olsen Research Achievement Award. She is listed in Who's Who Among Asian Americans.
An eminent scholar in her own field, Professor Hsu is a member of the International Board for the Travel and Tourism Research Association, and the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Teaching in Travel and Tourism. She also serves on the editorial boards of eight international journals. Professor Hsu is the lead author of the Tourism Marketing: An Asia-Pacific Perspective, published in 2008 by John Wiley &amp; Sons Australia Ltd.
Professor Hsu was a professor at Kansas State University in the U.S. before joining PolyU in 2001.
