
[date]2006.06.26[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE index forecasts a marginal fall in property prices as interest rate increases[/title]
The impact of continued interest rate hikes appears to have weakened housing price expectations, while market confidence remaining positive, according to the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the second quarter of 2006 stood at 717, up four points from the March 2006 survey. The latest survey was conducted in June 2006 with 1,034 successful interviews which recorded a response rate of 14.43 per cent overall.
The survey results show that residential property prices were expected to fall marginally in the near future. Overall, the expected average price change was minus 0.5 per cent (last survey: 1.4 per cent), 2.3 per cent (last survey: 3.5 per cent), and 6.8 per cent (last survey: 7.2 per cent) in the three-month, one-year and three-year forecast horizons, respectively. In the mind of homeowners (HOs), 27 per cent of them expected prices to fall, while 23 per cent expected them to rise, in three months.
As in previous quarters, housing continued to be perceived as expensive in Hong Kong. About 79 per cent of HOs (last survey: 79 per cent) and 84 per cent of non-homeowners (NHOs) (last survey: 77 per cent) felt "somewhat too high" or "extremely high". The investment rating was reported "neutral" by 44 per cent (last survey: 37 per cent) of HOs and 44 per cent (last survey: 39 per cent) of NHOs.
Twenty-eight per cent (last survey: 28 per cent) of HOs and 29 per cent (last survey: 20 per cent) of NHOs considered it was a "good" and "very good" time to buy a real property in Hong Kong. However, most of the respondents were uncertain about the timing to buy: 65 per cent of HOs (last survey: 74 per cent) and 71 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 78 per cent) had no idea whatsoever. With probable further increases in interest rate, it is fair to say that potential homebuyers and investors now hesitate to enter the home market.
Overall, family income was cited repeatedly as the most important factor affecting their housing decision. Seventy-eight percent of HOs (last survey: 78 per cent) and 83 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 73 per cent) rated interest rate "important" or "very important". The importance of interest rate was ranked third by HOs, following "location" and "income" as in the last survey; but advanced to the second place (last survey: fourth place) for NHOs.
Assessing the scale of impact of recent interest rate hikes on their housing price expectations, 46 per cent of HOs (last survey: 34 per cent) and 40 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 35 per cent) said the impact was "significant" or "very significant". Prof. Eddie Hui, Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Center for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) commented that the expected marginal fall in housing prices was not surprising amid concerns over future mortgage interest rate rises.
Ratings of market fundamentals remained more or less the same since last quarter. Overall, 49 per cent (last survey: 47 per cent) felt economic conditions would "stay the same" in three months. The figures for job opportunities and family income were 60 per cent (last survey: 59 per cent) and 70 per cent (last survey: 76 per cent), respectively.While the market outlook is uncertain, Prof. Francis Wong, Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE, noted that overall labour demand continued to increase between March and May 2006 (the unemployment rate declined to a 57-month low of 4.9 per cent between March and May 2006). Improvement in the property market will hinge on the continued recovery in the economy leading to greater job opportunity.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
