
[date]2006.07.30[/date]
[title]PolyU summer camp offers jumpstart in business studies[/title]
A hundred sixth formers from close to 40 top secondary schools in Hong Kong and overseas spent four days and three nights in a fun-filled Summer Business Camp organized by the Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), from 17 to 20 July at the University's Student Halls of Residence.
Themed "Globalization and Regional Integration", the camp sought to enhance students' understanding about latest developments in the world of business in face of globalization and regional economic integration. By integrating a stimulating mix of lectures, action-learning workshops, games and personal encounters, the camp helped youngsters understand key business principles and improve their interpersonal skills.
This is the third year the FB has organized its summer camp for secondary six students. Since its launch in 2004, FB summer camp has enjoyed increasing popularity, with a 15 per cent increase in the number of application this year. Many applicants were from the top secondary schools in Hong Kong such as Diocesan Boys' School, Sacred Heart Canossian College, St Paul's Secondary School, Wah Yan College (Kowloon), Hang Seng School of Commerce, to name just a few.
During the camp, FB scholars delivered such theme talks as "Enterprise Reform in China" and "Logistics in New Era: Challenges and Opportunities". The former aimed to identify problems of the Chinese state sector and the key to a successful restructuring of the state sector while the latter aimed to provide an overview on the challenges and opportunities of the logistics industry. Students also had the chance to join in a business case analysis contest and to spend an evening with PolyU's MBA students.
According to Mr Chan Kwun Wang of Wah Yan College Kowloon, one of the participants, the business plan competition gave him a better understanding of the opportunities which Hong Kong businesses enjoy under CPEA. During the competition, he also saw the importance of cooperation. "I really appreciate the opportunity to meet with MBA students and I have learnt more about the importance of self-enhancement in this highly competitive business world," said Mr Chan.
Science-major Mr Chan Kar Kin of Diocesan Boys' School said the summer camp was useful in enhancing his business knowledge. He remarked, "The camp helps me a lot in identifying my future study path and broaden my study choices. I will no longer confine my study choices to science subjects."
Miss Li Tsz Yan from Ying Wa Girls' School commented, "I have learnt to live and work with different people in this camp, especially how to cooperate with my team members during the workshops." Having gained such valuable experience, all three of them expressed that they would strongly recommend this camp to their juniors in the future.
Project Leader, Dr Stephen Gong from FB's School of Accounting and Finance said at the closing of the camp, "We are most privileged to enjoy the continuous support from secondary schools in making this year's summer camp another rousing success. Through this summer camp, I am sure that participants have gained not only a better understanding of the current economic situation of Hong Kong, but also valuable insights for their future study and career plans."
   
