
[date]2008.06.24[/date]
[title]PolyU renders support for post-earthquake reconstruction in Sichuan[/title]
The signing of a landmark agreement by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Sichuan University (SichuanU) on 21 June has paved the way for the establishment of the Sichuan Post-disaster Reconstruction Support and Research Centre in the province.
Introducing this initiative at a press briefing, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said: 'By pulling together the resources and expertise of the two universities, the Sichuan-based Centre not only provides a focal point for long-term collaboration, but also timely post-quake relief and reconstruction services for the victims.'
This initiative has also won $10 million support from business tycoon Dr Tsang Hin-chi, former Standing Committee Member of the National People's Congress. His son Mr Ricky Tsang Chi-ming, Deputy Chairman and CEO of the Goldlion Group, presented a donation cheque to the University at the briefing. Prof. Poon expressed his gratitude and said, 'This benefaction not only heightens Hong Kong people's concern for the victims and the motherland; it also represents community's endorsement for our participation in the post-quake reconstruction.'
Prof. Poon also announced PolyU will offer 10 entry scholarships to outstanding students in the province to pursue full-time bachelor degree programmes at the University this year. The awardees will each receive scholarship amounting to $110,000 per year to cover tuition fee and living expenses during their studies.
In support of its post-quake reconstruction initiative, the University has also set up a special taskforce with inter-disciplinary expertise. Led by Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang and Associate Vice President Prof. Angelina Yuen, the taskforce comprises senior members from the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Construction and Land Use, and the Chinese Mainland Affairs Office.
The newly established Centre will provide inter-disciplinary training, research and services covering the areas of holistic rehabilitation and health care, psychological counselling and community capacity building, applied construction and engineering technologies, and support for businesses and industries. Leveraging on the professional expertise and resources of PolyU and SichuanU, the Centre will render quality professional services for the earthquake victims optimise the tasks of relief and community reconstruction and, through scientific research, contain the damages of earthquakes in the future.
In the area of training, the Centre will adopt a 'train-the-trainers' approach in organizing intensive programmes this June and July. These programmes will serve to improve the quality of healthcare, prosthetic, social and welfare workers and counsellors on the mainland, catering for the urgent demand for high quality professionals during the post-disaster reconstruction period. In-depth training programmes will be offered at a later stage to further equip the local trainers of various professions, including physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and prosthetic therapists, with appropriate and advanced knowledge and skills, enabling frontline workers to better serve the victims.
PolyU and SichuanU will foster through the Centre inter-disciplinary scientific researches relating to disaster prevention, earthquake rescue and community rebuilding.  The two universities will also establish a database to support researches in disaster prevention.
PolyU promptly launched a campus-wide fund-raising campaign on the day following the 512 earthquake. With the support of its staff, students and alumni, the University has already raised nearly $3.5 million dollars for the victims. The donations have been forwarded to the state authorities concerned through the Central Government's Liaison Office in Hong Kong.
