
[date]2009.11.27[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (27 November) paid tribute to some 30 dedicated staff members for their outstanding achievements in teaching, research and scholarly activities, services and overall contribution.
The Awards are grouped in the categories of "President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement", the "Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement" and the "Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff". They are presented by PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):- Ms Juliana Chau, Lecturer, English Language Centre (ELC)
Ms Juliana Chau joined PolyU in 1998 and has maintained a high level of enthusiasm and excellence in teaching. Apart from the wide range of ELC subjects she has taught, Ms Chau helps prepare students for external language challenges and uses her time after class to offer individual students extra language support. Her dedication and professionalism are warmly received by students.
- Ms Chloe Lau, Instructor, School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM)
With "Create Opportunities for participation and appreciation",  "Appropriate approach for different subjects", "Reinforce industry practice to teaching setting" and "Encourage critical thinking" as her teaching philosophy, Ms Chloe Lau is a committed teacher who has been nominated by students for three consecutive years for the Teaching Excellence Award organized by SHTM.
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):- Prof. Cao Jiannong, Professor and Associate Head, Department of Computing
A renowned researcher in the fields of distributed computing, computer networks, mobile and pervasive computing, Prof. Cao Jiannong has obtained a total of 31 research grants, including those from the Research Grants Council, the Innovation and Technology Fund, and the Nokia Research Centre. He has also successfully won General Research Fund Grants (formerly Competitive Earmarked Research Grants) for eight consecutive years since 2001.
- Prof. Li Yi, Professor, Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC)
A highly acclaimed textile scientist, Prof. Li Yi's key contribution in developing super fine protein powders and applications in textiles materials earned him the State Technology Invention Award, China in 2008. His work is by no means confined to research within the University. He has been collaborating with industries to successfully bring his research work to the commercial world.
Services (Individual):- Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor, Department of Computing
Dr Henry Chan began his academic career at PolyU in 1998 and specializes in networking and communications, Internet technologies and electronic commerce. Since 2007, Dr Chan and his colleagues have collaborated with "The Intelligent Airport (TINA)"  project team, granting students the opportunity to enrich their learning experience and gain international exposure.
Services (Team):- Dr Frency Ng Sau-fun, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre and Assistant Professor, ITC; and Dr Patrick Hui, Deputy Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre and Assistant Professor, ITC
With an aim of applying their expertise and professional knowledge to help the elderly and the disabled, Dr Frency Ng and Dr Patrick Hui founded the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre in ITC in 2007. The Centre is the first of its kind in Asia to promote the concept of special clothing and to provide consultancy and support services for those with special needs. Dr Ng and Dr Hui have also led student and alumni volunteers of ITC to organize social services activities.
Overall Contribution (Team):- Dr Angela Ho Suk-ping, Director; Dr Patrick Lai, Associate Director; Dr Kwan Kam-por, Senior Educational Development Officer; and Dr Sun Jianrong, Educational Development Officer, Educational Development Centre (EDC)
Led by Dr Angela Ho, the EDC Outcome Based Education (OBE) Support team has been instrumental in supporting PolyU to work towards the strategic objective of adopting OBE to enhance the University's programmes and student learning. The team has assumed a key role and taken immense efforts in setting out guidelines and helping frontline teachers to understand and implement OBE in different ways.
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty / School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
