
[date]2006.11.14[/date]
[title]PolyU textile scientist honoured by Sang Ma Trust Fund[/title]


Prof. Hu Jinlian of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing has recently been honoured by the Sang Ma Trust Fund with its Textile Science and Technology Award (First-class Prize) in recognition of her breakthrough and contributions in developing shape memory fabrics. 
The Sang Ma Trust Fund was established by the famous industrialist Mr Cha Chiming. It aims to promote scientific and educational advancement in the field of textiles country-wide. This award is highly regarded in the field and the selection committee comprises members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and senior academics and industrialists. Prof. Hu is the first and only local scholar bestowed with this honour since its launch in 1992.
Prof. Hu is the Principal Investigator of the shape memory project and founder of PolyU's Shape Memory Textile Centre. Over the years, she and her team have registered a number of patents for the development of shape memory textiles in the US and China. Since the special fabrics can readily recover their original shapes, this makes them ideal materials for the garment industry. Shape memory garments are distinguished from other wrinkle-free garments by achieving crease retention, flat appearance, and bagging recovery when washed in hot water and/or steam or tumble dry. 
More recently, Prof. Hu has made use of her patented technology to produce a new generation of magical facial masks which can 'sense' the temperature of human skin and then release nutritious ingredients. With the addition of chitosan, an ingredient extracted from the shells of seafood such as crabs and shrimps, anti-bacterial function can be further achieved. This make materials made from shape memory fabrics more versatile for other purposes, for instance, in making anti-bacterial wound dressings. 
Prof. Hu and her team have also achieved international reputation for their insight in this emerging area. She received the Award for Distinguished Achievement in Fiber Science from the Fiber Society in 2001; and the Excellent Research Papers Award by the China Textile Engineer Society in the past years. She also won a Silver Award for her discovery in the Brussels Eureka 2004, also known as the 53rd World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology.
 
The PolyU's Shape Memory Textile Centre was established with an $8M grant from the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund in June 2003. With strong support from the Government, industry and the University, it further secured another more than $12M for developing shape memory fibers in 2004.

This year the Sang Ma Trust Fund Award held its award presentation ceremony in Tianjing on 29 October. Officiating guests include Mr Cha's daughter Ms Cha May-lung, Executive Director of the Cha Textiles Group; Mr Y.S. Wang, Director and General Manager of the Group; Mr Zhang Jinfang, Deputy Mayor of Tianjing City; Mr Du Yuchou, Chairman of China National Textile and Apparel Council; Prof. Ji Guobiao and Prof. Mei Ziqiang; Members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.

