
[date]2008.11.24[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (24 November) paid tribute to some 40 dedicated staff members for their outstanding achievements in teaching, research, services and overall contribution.
The Awards are grouped in the categories of 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement', the 'Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement' and the 'Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff'. They are presented by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):- Dr Jason Choi, Associate Professor, Institute of Textiles and Clothing - Dr Alan Lau, Associate Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):- Dr Pauline Li, Associate Professor, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology- Prof. John Shi, Professor, Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics- Prof. Tang Chak-yin, Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Services (Individual):- Prof. C.K. Chan, Professor and Deputy Head, Department of Applied Mathematics
Services (Team):- Dr Vincent Ng, Associate Professor; Dr Grace Ngai, Assistant Professor; Dr Stephen Chan, Associate Professor; Dr H.V. Leong, Associate Professor; Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor; Dr Korris Chung, Associate Professor; and Dr Simon Shiu, Assistant Professor, Department of Computing (COMP)
Overall Contribution (Team):- Mr Benedict Lee, Senior Development Manager; Miss Kitty Chan, Development Manager; Miss Sharon Tam, Project Officer; and Miss Wong Fong-yu, Assistant Project Officer, Alumni Affairs and Development Office (AADO)
Dr Jason Choi advocates that students will learn well when they find learning interesting and intellectually challenging. Therefore, he has tried various methods to make teaching and learning more effective and is actively adopting innovative methods in teaching such as creating simulation games and conducting scenario-based tutorials.Dr Alan Lau joined PolyU in 2000. In addition to teaching, Dr Lau has conducted seminars for students so that they can learn up-to-date technologies and knowledge in their field outside the classroom. He also encourages students to participate in various internal and external product design competitions as they are able to learn and practise social, presentation and marketing skills in promoting their design and products. 
Dr Pauline Li has made significant original contributions towards Material Science and Nanotechnology. Dr Li's work is not confined to research study within the University. She endeavours to exploit applications of her research outcome through active liaisons and collaborations with industries. Her innovative technology of re-generable nanoparticles for waste water treatment has earned industrial support. 
An internationally acclaimed expert in Geographic Information Systems, Prof. John Shi has developed a series of new mathematical models and improved solutions for modelling uncertainties in spatial data and spatial analyses. His theory on spatial data is now included in the syllabus of many higher education institutions in China and designated as a major subject of study.
Since joining PolyU in 1992, Prof. Tang Chak-yin has performed excellent research in the area of Damage Mechanics focusing on material and process modelling, which has greatly advanced mankind's knowledge in product design and manufacturing technology. He believes that the application of research outcomes to improving the quality of the life of mankind gives the highest level of self-gratification.
Having served PolyU for 27 years, Prof. C.K. Chan has participated extensively in the affairs of the University by serving in the Estates Committee, the Finance Committee, Working Group on the Implementation of the 4-year Undergraduate Degree Structure, to name but a few. Prof. Chan's role as a bridge of liaison between staff and management was also well recognized. 
Through the Community Outreach Merit Programme, COMP encourages their students to serve the community by contributing their IT professional knowledge. Since 2004, the COMP team has organized over 30 servicing projects to the community and has expanded their projects outside Hong Kong through successful service learning tours to rural provinces in the Chinese mainland.
Under the leadership of Mr Benedict Lee, the team within the AADO has put tremendous efforts in raising funds for the University. During the period from 2003 to the end of March 2008, the team raised over HK$64 million through a number of successfully launched projects and activities, including the Chinese publication of 'Ming Tao', the annual PolyU Invitation Golf and Tennis tournaments and 70th Anniversary Events.
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty / School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
