
[date]2006.12.15[/date]
[title]PolyU shared the honour of its programme winning international re-accreditation with tourism experts at China Tourism Forum[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Bachelor of Science (Hons) and Higher Diploma programmes in Hotel Management offered by School of Hotel &amp; Tourism Management (SHTM) have recently been re-accredited by the Hotel and Catering International Management Association (HCIMA) for further five years until 2011.
The HCIMA Chief Executive Mr. Philippe Rositter, presented the accreditation certificate to PolyU SHTM Director Prof. Kaye Chon yesterday (15 December), during the opening ceremony of the Third China Tourism Forum, which is jointly organized by PolyU and the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) on PolyU campus. Officiating guests of the Forum opening ceremony included HKSAR Government Commissioner of Tourism Miss Au King-chi, Forum Co-Chair Prof. Kaye Chon, World Tourism Organisation Deputy Secretary-General Dr Taleb Rifai, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and SHTM Chair Professor and Associate Head Prof. Song Haiyan.
The HCIMA is a renowned professional association for managers in the hospitality, leisure and tourism industries. It is recognized as a benchmarking organization for Hospitality and related subject standards by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education in the UK, and is also accredited and authorized by the UK Qualifications and Curriculum Authority to award a wide range of professional, vocational and academic qualifications.
Prof. Kaye Chon said, 'The re-accreditation demonstrated the SHTM's adherence to quality in programme management, excellence in teaching, and academic rigour. Taking the opportunity that worldwide tourism experts join today's Forum held on the PolyU campus, I am most happy to announce this encouraging news and share this honour and joy with the industries.'
Highly commended for its sound theoretical-based content emphasizing on the technical and professional competence development through practice, and its well course administration and control in terms of assessments and delivery process, the relevant SHTM programmes won re-accreditation by the HCIMA for further five years, subsequent to its first accreditation in 2000.
The two-day Third China Tourism Forum aimed to provide an opportunity for tourism policy makers, marketing organizations, researchers, academics and industry practitioners to identify issues relating to tourism and economic development in China, and also to discuss possible solutions to the challenges arising from tourism development in China.
The issues explored in the Forum included the latest trend of China tourism; how to prepare for the exponential growth of outbound Chinese tourism; the impact of tourism on the Pearl River Delta Region; planning of new hotel development in China; and the room for community-based tourism in the new China. It featured two keynote presentations by speakers from the industry, education institutions and international organizations, and two panel discussions.
Speakers included eminent academics such as UNWTO Deputy Secretary-General Dr Taleb Rifai, Zhejiang University School of Management Executive Dean Prof. Wang Zhong-ming, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Tourism Research Centre Prof. Zhang Guang-rui, Yunnan University Business and Tourism Administration School Dean Prof. Tian Li, and PolyU SHTM Director Prof. Kaye Chon.
Other experienced industry practitioners joining the Forum included Jinling Hotels and Resorts CEO Mr Feng Hou, ; TEDA Hotels Management Ltd. CEO Dr Tim Gao, Marco Polo HK Hotel and Gateway Hotel General Manager &amp; Area Director Mr John Girard, Shangri-la Hotels and Resorts Chief Operating Officer Mr Symon Bridle, CTS HK Metropark Hotels Management Co. Ltd. General Manager Mr Jeremy Xu, and Hong Kong Tourism Board Strategic Planning &amp; Marketing Communications General Manager Ms Jacqueline Tong.
SHTM has a long-standing affiliation with UNWTO, a specialized agency of the United Nations and a leading international organization in the field of tourism. It has been designated as Asia's only university among the 16-member WTO Education and Training Network since 1999.
For more details about the Forum, please visit the official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/conference/ctf2006 or contact Ms Nicole Shum of SHTM at 2766 4334 or through email: hmnicole@polyu.edu.hk.
