
[date]2006.11.24[/date]
[title]PolyU wins four awards in IENA Exhibition of Germany[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won one Gold and three Bronze Medals during its debut appearance in the International Trade Fair 'Ideas - Inventions ' New Products' (IENA) held from 2 to 5 November in Nuremberg.
At a press briefing held yesterday (24 November) in the University's House of Innovation, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing and the Principal Investigators proudly presented their medals. They also explained the applications of these award-winning projects in different settings.
The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
(1) Gold Medal : Smart Wristband for Sleep ApnoeaPrincipal Investigator:  Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences
In designing this anti-sleep apnoea device, PolyU researchers have ingeniously combined the use of Traditional Chinese Medicine acupuncture theory with wearable electronics. The low-cost device is non-invasive, reliable and easy to use. Through triggering the Lieque acupuncture point (or Lung Acupoint LU7), sleep apnoea sufferers can resume breathing without being awaken. Preliminary clinical results revealed that the Apnoea Hypopnoea Index (AHI) was reduced by nearly 30% on average.
The new device comprises of a conductive fabric abdomen belt and a wristband. The belt serves as first signal-processing unit for transmitting signals from the conductive fabric in response to the change of circumference of the user's abdomen. The wristband functions as second signal-processing unit with two electrodes adapted to the user's wrist for releasing electrical pulses to an acupuncture point of the user.
This innovation is the joint effort of an inter-disciplinary research team with experts from PolyU's School of Nursing, Department of Health Technology and Informatics and Institute of Textiles and Clothing. Led by Prof. Thomas Wong, the project team includes the following members: Prof. Tao Xiao-ming, Dr. Winnie Yu, Dr. Danny Gohel, Prof. Joanne Chung, Dr. KL Fan, Dr. CC Cheung and Miss Alice Ng
(2) Bronze Medal: Ultrasonic Decalcification Techniques and AgentsPrincipal Investigators:  Dr Guo Xia, Assistant Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences; andDr Zheng Yong-ping, Associate ProfessorDepartment of Health Technology and Informatics;
The novel technique is designed to accelerate the process of bone decalcification for pathological diagnosis or bone-grafting in orthopaedic or plastic surgeries. Bone decalcification, or the removal of calcium ions from the bone, is a key step for making bones soft and easy to be processed into thin sections for microscopic investigation. It is estimated that more than 500,000 bone-grafting procedures are performed and sales of bone graft around USD 300 millions annually in the US. However, traditonal procedure is complicated and takes months to complete. In comparison, the new method developed by PolyU researchers can achieve decalcification within a few days or even hours.
The new technique works on a custom-made ultrasound machine and foaming agent. The patented system is also built-in with an end point detection and temperature controlling function which prevents deterioration of biological properties of decalcifying bone. This innovation is jointly developed by Dr Guo, Dr Zheng and PhD  student Miss Lam Wai-ling of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences.
(3) Bronze Medal: Self-Sustainable Magnetoelectric Smart SensorsPrincipal Investigators:  Dr Derek Or Siu-wing, Assistant ProfessorProf. Helen Chan Wong Lai-wa; Chair Professor and Head, Department of Applied Physics
Making use of proprietary magnetoelectric composite materials, PolyU physicists have developed a new generation of smart sensors for intelligent detection and conversion of magnetic fields into electrical signals. While conventional sensors (such as Hall and reluctance devices) still need to be powered by highly stable electrical supplies and/or to be interfaced with high-quality signal conditioners, PolyU-developed smart sensors require no external power supplies to sustain their operations and produce large output voltages 2,000 times higher than the conventional sensors. These smart sensors also have the coexistent features of high detection sensitivity (&lt;10-6 Oe), large field range of linearity (&gt;2.5 kOe), wide operational frequency range (&gt;100 kHz), high temperature stability (&gt;150 oC), and tailorable performance and geometry.
A smart sensor is essentially a single, passive, solid-state magnetoelectric composite element with housing. It is cost-effective, reliable, and suitable for a broad domain of applications, which include real-time, isolated/non-contact measurements of magnetic fields, electrical currents, and rotational speeds, etc. PolyU researchers have already applied US patent for this invention.
(4) Bronze Medal: Intelligent Thermal Protective Clothing SystemPrincipal Investigator:  Prof. Li Yi, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
In developing this Intelligent Thermal Protective Clothing System, Prof. Li and his team have solved many problems for winter sports lovers and people facing extreme weather. Based on this system, smart thermal clothing can be designed to provide thermal regulating effects for more than 100 minutes without heating. The clothing can save 30 per cent more of body energy during heating and achieve temperature control. It can also prevent moisture condensation, making the clothing dry and warm.
The patented system is designed by with the use of advanced thermal functional CAD technology, the application of state-of-the-art nano composite PCM (phase change materials) microcapsules, and moisture management fabrics. It is the brainchild of a 11-strong research team with the following members: Team Leader Prof. Li Yi; Technical Team members Mr. Wang Shuxiao, Mr. Hu Junyan, Ms. Sun Shu, Ms. Song Qingwen and Dr. Yao Baoguo; Design Team members Dr. Au Wai-man, Dr. Kong Ng Yuet-ming, Dr.Jeanne Tan, Mr. Ho Chu Po, Mr. So Yan Kwan and Xu Xu-bing.  The 58th International Trade Fair 'Ideas - Inventions ' New Products' was held from 2 to 5 November in Nuremberg. It has attracted exhibitors from 32 countries.
 
