
[date]2006.10.05[/date]
[title]PolyU wins five awards in 16th China Invention Exhibition[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won one Gold, three Silver and one Bronze Medals in the 16th China Invention Exhibition, which was held earlier in Dongguan by the China Invention Association.
At a press briefing held yesterday (5 October) in the University's House of Innovation, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing and the Principal Investigators proudly presented their medals. They also explained the applications of these award-winning projects in different settings.
The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
(1) Gold Medal : Multi-Sensory Training Unit for Children's DevelopmentPrincipal Investigator:  Dr David Man, Associate Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences
This is a compact and portable device which is designed to provide young children with different sensory stimulation, including touch, sight, sound, vibration, movement, etc. The training unit is based on Snoezelen theory of controlled multi-sensory stimulation, which proved that children can benefit from the controlled and step-by-step use of the different stimulus-providing facilities. With its small size and light weight, this inexpensive training unit can be easily installed in nurseries, kindergartens as well as special schools. Not only can it be used for normal children, but also for children with developmental problems such as hyperactivity and attention deficit.
(2) Silver Medal: Polymer-bonded Magnetic DevicePrincipal Investigator:  Prof. Eric Cheng Ka-wai, Department of Electrical Engineering
Prof. Cheng and his team members have successfully made use of state-of-the-art polymer-bonded magnetic device to produce magnetic materials. In using this new method, non-brittle magnetic cores of flexible shapes and different sizes can be made. This breakthrough has versatile applications in a wide range of products, including transformers and inductor components, direct-current-to-direct-current power converters, high frequency power supplies, and screening of electromagnetic wave.
(3) Silver Medal: Lucid Platform for Online Game DevelopmentPrincipal Investigator:  Dr Gino Yu, Associate Professor, School of Design
Lucid Platform provides a complete solution to single play game, Mini-Scale Multiplayer Online Game (MSMOG) a Massively Multiplayer Online Game (MMOG) development. The platform consists of two main components, namely Lucid3D and LucidNet. The former is a cutting-edge 3D Game Engine which supports development of single player game and multi-player game clients. The latter is a high performance middleware for both the client and serve-side multi-player game development. Using Lucid Platform, game developers can create almost any game genres.
(4) Silver Medal: i-JADE e-CommunityPrincipal Investigator:  Dr Raymond Lee, Associate Professor, Department of Computing
In designing i-JADE e-Community, PolyU researchers have cleverly combined the use of Intelligent Agent Technology, 3G mobile computing technology, Global Positioning System, Fuzzy Logic, Ontology as well as Chaotic Theory. Through this user-friendly platform, individual users can easily obtain useful information from their PDA or 3G mobile devices. Users can make use of different i-JADE features to acquire information on news, weather, stock, and location. They may also sort out relevant information for business decision making through obtaining advice on stock, shopping, navigation, supply chain management, etc.
(5) Bronze Medal: SimLogisticsTMPrincipal Investigator:  Dr Henry Lau, Associate Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
SimLogisticsTM is designed to simulate the complex fleet management system in a game-based approach. Using patented Adaptable Method Invocation Technology (AMIT), SimLogisticsTM allows interchange among heterogeneous environments which can create different logistics cases. Through this fun-filled learning exercise, students can enhance their knowledge and skills in handling and solving daily logistics related activity. They are provided with a stimulating environment to plan the route of each vehicle, taking into consideration such factors as the loading weight, status transportation network, loading and unloading tactic, etc.
This year more than 1,500 innovations were showed in the national exhibition, which was held from September 21 to 24 in Dongguan. This event was jointly organized by China Invention Association, Department of Science and Technology, Guangdong Province; Intellectual Property Office, Guangdong Province; and Dongguan People's Government.
