
[date]2006.07.10[/date]
[title]PolyU develops intelligent dressing mirror and fitting room[/title]
Researchers from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing have recently developed "An intelligent Simulator for Cross-selling &amp; Up-selling using Smart Fitting Room &amp; Smart Dressing Mirror". It is envisaged to help fashion retailers boost business volume by improving sales and customer services. This system uses the technology of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) to detect items brought into a fitting room or placed in front of a dressing mirror. When an item is picked into the fitting room or placed in front of a dressing mirror, the product ID will be immediately detected and transmitted to the system through the antennae and reader. The mix-and-match database of the system will then deliver recommendations to the customer through a touch-screen LCD monitor or projected screen. In the fitting room, if the customer is interested to pick the recommended mix-and-match items, he/she can make their choice by clicking the items shown on screen. The salesman in the shop counter will thus be informed, through the intercom system, of the additional items required by the customer inside the fitting room.
The system is developed by three researchers from ITC and they are Dr Calvin Wong, Dr Sunney Leung, both Assistant Professors and Dr Tracy Mok, Lecturer. It is expected that the development of the intelligent system can help boost fashion retailers' sales performance through systematic cross-selling and up-selling activities. It also allows retailers to identify items which appeal to customers most.
This collaborative project between ITC and industry not only helps retailers provide more customer-oriented services, but also acts an instrumentation for creating an environment for students to learn fashion retailing and carrying out research in areas like consumer behaviour, promotional strategies, supply chain management, etc.
