
[date]2007.12.14[/date]
[title]PolyU achieves further breakthrough in shape memory technology[/title]
Top-notch researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s  Institute of Textile and Clothing (ITC) have achieved further breakthrough in shape memory textile technology by making shape memory fibers and products from these kinds of fibers.
This breakthrough is a further development of the world's first cellulose-made shape memory fabric; which was invented by a research team headed by Prof. Hu Jinlian, Principal Investigator of the shape memory project and founder of the University's Shape Memory Textile Centre.
Since its first discovery by PolyU researcher in 2002, the preparation of shape memory fabrics has to go through a treatment process and only limited to natural fibers. By mastering the spinning of fibers and yarns from synthesizing shape memory polymers as well as fabrics made by using shape memory fibers, new functions are created and the process is now speeded up.
Backed by industry support, this manufacturing procedure and the chemical production have been proved to work in the production line. Interested manufacturers may simply acquire this new technology and push ahead with the mass production of special clothing embedded with shape memory fibers.
Since the special clothing made of shape memory fibers can readily recover their original shapes, this makes them ideal materials for the textiles and garment industry, especially for intimate apparel. Shape memory garments are also distinguished from other wrinkle-free garments by achieving 3D configuration, crease retention, flat appearance, and bagging recovery when worn by body temperature and washed in hot water and /or steam.
Over the years, Prof. Hu and her team have registered a total of 14 patents for the development of shape memory polymers and textiles in the US and China.  She and her team also achieved international reputation for their insight in this emerging area. She received the Award for Distinguished Achievement in Fiber Science from the US Fiber Society in 2001; the Sang Ma Trust Fund's Textile Science and Technology Award (First -class Prize) in 2006; and the Excellent Research Papers Award by the China Textile Engineer Society in 2003. She also won a Silver Award for her discovery in the Brussels Eureka 2004, also known as the 53rd World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology.
The University's Shape Memory Textile Centre was established with an $8M grant from the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund in June 2003. With strong support from the Government, industry and the University, it further secured another more than $12M for developing shape memory fibers in 2004.
