
[date]2007.09.17[/date]
[title]PolyU "head-hunters" share results of SizeChina.com[/title]
The world's first database storing 3D head and face measurements of ethnic Chinese has come into use, after 18 months of dedicated efforts by pioneering researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Design (SD).
According to Mr Roger Ball, Director of "SizeChina.com" project and Assistant Professor of SD, industrial designers around the world have been longing for such ergonomic data because many existing consumer products are designed for Caucasians, and as a result they do not fit Chinese people properly.
"Understanding human size and shape is the cornerstone for designing successful consumer products because every product relies on accurate fitting. Designers, engineers and architects need sophisticated digital data on head and face shapes to design the next generation of best-selling products. How well a product fits us is the most important part of any successful design," he added.
In compiling the anthropometric data, Mr Ball and his team has visited six mainland cities, including Guangzhou, Hangzhou, Lanzhou, Chongqing, Beijing and Shenyang. Working in collaboration with local universities and enterprises, they have subsequently collected the head forms of more than 2,000 volunteers, aged from 18 to 70, using a 360-degree rotary non-contact head and face scanners.
With the completion of the first phase of this project, PolyU researchers have come up with five standard head forms of ethnic Chinese after analyzing massive data with statistical tools. These results will prove to be extremely useful for industrial designer in creating the next generation of perfect-fitting consumer products for Chinese.
It is also anticipated that designers from various industries will sought after such data. Some potential areas of application for this database are highlighted as follows:
For Medical industry:Facemasks and filters for contagious children. Protective equipments for health care professionals. Advanced head mounted micro-surgery tools
For Optical industry:According to a previous study by PolyU School of Optometry, more than 70 per cent of ethnic Chinese school children are wearing spectacles. Non prescription eyewear such as sunglasses is therefore of particular interest.
For Sports industry:Bicycle helmets, helmets for scooter and motorcycles, protective goggles.
For Entertainment/Communication industry:Headphones/virtual reality headsets/head mounted interfaces
An exhibition showing the results of SizeChina.com and five standard Chinese head forms is being staged in the Gateway Arcade Atrium of Harbour City from now until 23 September. Interested parties can also visit its website at www.sizechina.com.
The project was kicked off in April 2006 with nearly $4.5 million funding support from DesignSmart Initiative of the Government's Innovation and Technology Commission, under the project title "Perfect fit China". It is also supported by several industrial partners, including UGS PLM Solutions and Strategic Sports.
