
[date]2009.04.24[/date]
[title]PolyU helps boost Chinese Linguistics research through collaboration with Peking University[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has joined forces with Peking University to establish the PolyU ' Peking U Research Centre on Chinese Linguistics. An office of the Centre was officially opened on PolyU campus today (24 April).
The office was opened by Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Academic Staffing and Resources); Prof. Angelina Yuen Tsang Woon-ki, PolyU Associate Vice President; Prof. Huang Chu-ren, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Humanities and Chair Professor of Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies; Prof. Xiao Qun, Vice Minister, Office of Humanities and Social Sciences of Peking University; and Prof. Shen Yang, Deputy Head, Chinese Language and Literature of Peking University.
The PolyU ' Peking U Research Centre on Chinese Linguistics plays a vital role not only in enhancing the research collaboration on Chinese linguistics between the two institutions, but also in developing subjects related to Chinese Linguistics, including Chinese etymology and Information processing, training programme for teachers teaching Chinese as a foreign language, as well as master and doctoral programmes for secondary language teachers.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Huang Chu-ren said, 'With the growing importance of Chinese Language around the world, the research on Chinese linguistics is gaining momentum. The enhancement of the research practice on Chinese Linguistics relies strongly on the support of the Central Government and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government.'
Prof. Chan Shui-duen, Head of PolyU's Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, added, 'We are privileged to establish the joint research arm with the Department of Chinese Language and Literature at Peking University. I am sure the collaboration will have a positive impact to the research development of both institutions.'
The PolyU ' Peking U Research Centre on Chinese Linguistics aims to carry out research on Chinese Linguistics, with an emphasis on the study and application of modern Chinese Language. Research activities of the Centre include teaching Chinese as a foreign language, Chinese teaching materials for primary and secondary schools, syntax, semantics and pragmatics of modern Chinese, Chinese dialects, information processing in and corpus of modern Chinese, standardization and modernization of modern Chinese language.
