
[date]2006.10.10[/date]
[title]PolyU and CII-HK release findings on construction safety at height[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK) have jointly completed a study entitled 'Construction safety involving working at height for residential building repair and maintenance'.
Chaired by Mr. C.K. Lau, JP, General Manager (Project Management Department) of Henderson Land Development Co Ltd; the Taskforce comprised senior members of the industry and representatives from various government departments. The key findings and recommendations were announced yesterday (10 October) by Mr Lau; Dr Nicolas Yeung, Director of CII-HK; Prof. Francis Wong, Head of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate; and Principal Investigator Prof. Albert Chan.
The following are some key recommendations of the study:
(1) General recommendation:
The use of bamboo truss-out scaffold was identified as the root cause of many recent fall accidents in Hong Kong. There is an urgent need to look into other alternatives which can replace the bamboo truss-out scaffold. The Taskforce has also invited PolyU to design an alternative temporary working platform for use in residential building repair and maintenance.
It was also suggested that more workshops be organized to provide training for workers. Continuous training is expected to improve workers' safety attitude and hence reducing the occurrence of unsafe acts or procedures.
(2) Prevention of accidents arising from working at height:
The study called for the enactment of longest working hours to prevent accidents arising from fatigue of workers, and monitor the observance of such practice by employers. To make sure that non-local workers possess the same level of skills as local workers do, non-local workers should be required to participate in skill tests conducted by recognized professional bodies.
It is often noticed that contractors and the self-employed are rushing jobs and spending less on protective equipment to increase their profit margins. The pay-for-safety system should be formalized to make allowance for safety precautions so that construction jobs do not need to be rushed. In addition, employers should provide necessary personal protective equipment for their staff members.
(3) Enhancement of knowledge and skills:
Compulsory safety training by recognized services providers should be imposed for workers working at height. The training should be accompanied by the issue of competency recognitions similar to the green card or even silver card system. In addition, new technologies and products from overseas could be adapted and expedited for use in the local context.
(4) Supporting measures:
More inspection and monitoring should be done by the authorities concerned. Safety provisions should be considered and built in at design stage for future building designs. In addition, the authorities could make use of the mass media to broadcast safety messages and educate flat owners/tenants about their legal responsibility.
(5) Regulatory framework:
The use of bamboo truss-out scaffold should be regulated by a mandatory licensing system by the authorities concerned. Likewise, a mandatory licensing system should be introduced for workers performing minor works, so that estate management companies and flat owners/tenants can identify competent contractors. The importance of purchasing insurance for maintenance works should be publicized to increase the awareness of occupants on proper implementation of repair works.
Jointly funded by CII-HK and PolyU, the study was kicked off in January 2005. The Taskforce would put forward its findings and recommendations to the Government's Provisional Construction Industry Co-ordination Board and other relevant units.
