
[date]2006.10.04[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index drops marginally but market outlook remains positive[/title]
Housing prices were expected to marginally rise in the fourth quarter of this year following the end of the interest rate hike cycle in August. Yet the incentive to buy a real property in Hong Kong remains weak, the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" (BRE Index) released by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) shows.
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the third quarter of 2006 stood at 704, down 13 points from the June 2006 survey. This survey was conducted in September 2006 with 1,008 successful interviews. The response rate was 14.15 per cent overall.
The survey results show that residential property prices were expected to rise marginally in the next quarter. Overall, the expected average price change was 3.0 per cent in the next three months (last survey: minus 0.5 per cent), 3.8 per cent in one year (last survey: 2.3 per cent), and 7.0 per cent in three years (last survey: 6.8 per cent). In the short term, however, 42 per cent of respondents thought that property prices would stay the same (last survey: 30 per cent).
Following the trend of previous quarters, housing in Hong Kong continued to be perceived as expensive. Potential home buyers considered asking prices high. About 77 per cent of homeowners (HOs) (last survey: 79 per cent) and 83 per cent of non-homeowners (NHOs) (last survey: 84 per cent) felt prices "somewhat too high" or "extremely high". The investment rating was reported "neutral" by 54 per cent (last survey: 44 per cent) of HOs and 50 per cent (last survey: 44 per cent) of NHOs.
Slightly over half of respondents (HO: 50 per cent and NHO: 58 per cent) considered it a "somewhat bad" or "very bad" time to buy real property. Further, most of them, as in previous surveys, were uncertain about the timing to buy: 71 per cent of HOs (last survey: 65 per cent) and 78 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 71 per cent) had no idea. Only four per cent of HOs (last survey: five per cent) and two per cent of NHOs (last survey: 0.4 per cent) planned to buy within six months. It would appear that the end of interest rate rises in August has not had significantly positive impact on the local property market.
Family income was the most important factor affecting their buying decision, followed by location. Eighty-seven percent of HOs (last survey: 78 per cent) and 90 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 83 per cent) rated interest rate "important" or "very important". The importance of interest rate was ranked by HOs in the third place (77 per cent) following "location" (82 per cent) and "income" (87 per cent), as in the last survey.
The impact of interest rate rises tends to be diminishing, 32 per cent of HOs (last survey: 46 per cent) and 40 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 40 per cent) said that the impact was "significant" or "very significant". Prof. Hui, Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Center for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) commented that the market sentiment in general appeared to be positive after the end of interest rate hikes in August.
Market fundamentals were rated less favorable relative to last survey. Overall, 55 per cent (last survey: 49 per cent) felt that economic conditions would "stay the same" in three months. The figures for job opportunities and family income were 64 per cent (last survey: 60 per cent) and 73 per cent (last survey: 70 per cent), respectively. Family income, the most important factor affecting buying decision, was expected to "greatly increase" or "increase somewhat" by 20 per cent of respondents, two percentage points less than last survey (last survey: 22 per cent).In anticipation of stable price movement, Prof. Francis Wong, Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE, added that the recent launches of private housing projects would likely put a cap on rising housing prices in the short run. The impact on potential buyers, however, should be small. At the present juncture, it is believed that the mass market would remain positive in the fourth quarter of the year.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
