
[date]2006.06.23[/date]
[title]PolyU and CII-HK release findings on ageing buildings[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has partnered with the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK) since February 2005 to conduct a multi-disciplinary study on "Repair, Maintenance and Sustainability of the Ageing Residential Building Stock in Hong Kong", and the recommendations made were announced yesterday (23 June).
The followings are some key recommendations of the study after consolidating views and inputs from the industry:
(1) New management practices need to be introduced for sustainable building management
A coordinated initiative within government comprising members of the Home Affairs Department and Buildings Department together with input from other authorities such as the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department, Fire Services Department, the utilities companies, and other experts, should explore the feasibility of setting up a new body for the management and maintenance of ageing buildings. Such a body would ensure better organization and utilization of the resources required for the control, support and promotion of building upkeep.
(2) Strategic reform of regulatory framework relating to ageing buildings
Existing legislation should be amended to empower this new body to identify and resolve repair and maintenance problems within individual buildings by ensuring entry to the buildings including individual flats for inspection given reasonable notice.  The government should also explore the best way to integrate all the relevant statutory provisions in different ordinances relating to building management and maintenance. 
(3) New initiatives need to be implemented to ensure social support for the promotion of repair and maintenance in ageing buildings
More provision and resources should be made available for appropriate Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to play a constructive role in the repair and maintenance of such buildings.  Given their long term relations with local neighborhoods and knowledge of local affairs, some NGOs such as Society for Community Organization, Hong Kong Caritas and The Hong Kong Housing Society, are ideally placed to arrange investigations of buildings, provide technical advice, provide guidance on legal matters and assist in the arrangement of loans to enable repair and maintenance to take place.
(4) Precautionary measures are needed to prevent the deterioration of ageing residential buildings and ensure improvements to deficient building services
Preventative maintenance schemes should be initiated to keep ageing residential buildings in good health and halt deterioration. Statutory building services maintenance requirements including periodic inspection, testing and certification (PITC) of the electrical installations and annual maintenance of the fire services installations must be fulfilled.
(5) The economic implications for the repair and maintenance of ageing residential buildings need to be reviewed
At present, repair and maintenance works are subsidized by a number of Government departments and independent housing organizations through various incentive and loan schemes.  Whilst each of these schemes has its own merits, they could not contribute to a significant reduction in the number of buildings needing repairs.   The cost of such repairs across all the ageing buildings within Hong Kong is considerable and new initiatives need to be considered to fund the repairs and maintenance required.  Such initiatives would (i) create new job opportunities within the construction industry; (ii) enhance community hygiene and public safety thus providing an improved environment and (iii) enhance property value.
Backed by $1 million funding from the CII-HK and $300,000 from PolyU, the study was carried out to analyse legal, social, economic, technical and environmental issues associated with the upkeep of ageing buildings. It also aimed to assess the scale of the remedial work needed and to make recommendations on practical solutions. The project has surveyed and reviewed sample data taken from 30-40 year-old typical buildings to identify and assess common physical defects, assess how repair and maintenance relate to the residents' problems, aspirations and finances together with issues affecting the repair and maintenance and upgrading of the buildings.
The multi-disciplinary research team was led by Prof. Andrew Baldwin, PolyU's Dean of Faculty of Construction and Land Use, and coordinated by Prof. Francis Wong Kwan-wah, Head of the PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE). Apart from BRE, the team integrated a large pool of expertise drawn from the Department of Applied Social Sciences, the Department of Building Services Engineering, and the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering. In addition, the study was supported by a CII-HK task force led by Prof. K.K. Chan, member of the Research Committee, CII-HK and comprising members from a wide range of government departments and industry organizations.
