
[date]2010.02.04[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its Outstanding Student Awards to distinguished full-time degree students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits at a ceremony held on campus today (4 February).
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong commended the awardees for their outstanding performance, "The Award is a due recognition of students' academic achievement, strong leadership ability, personal qualities, as well as active involvement in co-curricular activities and community services. All these qualities contribute to the making of PolyU's "preferred graduates" and the outstanding students today stand as shining examples of our success in nurturing all-rounded leaders for our society."
This year, the top award of "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" went to Miss Josephy Yeung Chun-fa, a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Hotel Management from the School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
Josephy ranked among the top three in class in her last two years of study and was winner of three scholarships, including the HKSAR Government Scholarship 2009/10, the PolyU (Southern California) Association Student Exchange Scholarship 2008/09 and Manuel Woo Scholarship in Memory of His Late Parents 2007/08. Josephy is not only a high achiever in the School, but also an active participant in co-curricular activities and social services. She was a member of the PolyU English Debate Team in 2007/08, a student ambassador of PolyU's Community Service Learning Programme and the chief delegate of the HK Model United Nations Conference in 2008. She joined an internship programme to serve for the Beijing Olympics 2008 and had been to the US for an exchange programme under the "Preferred Graduate" Development Programme (PGDP).
The other six awardees, who are also full-time final year students, are: 
Mr Frank Geng Kun, Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles
Miss Janice Zhang Haoran, Faculty of Business
Mr Ken Cheung Hiu-fung, Faculty of Construction and Land Use
Mr Lozen Liu Zhiyue, Faculty of Engineering
Mr Kevin Yee Ka-fai, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences
Mr Anthony Chiu Chi-un, Faculty of Humanities
Mr Frank Geng Kun is studying Engineering Physics at the Department of Applied Physics. He topped his class in the past two years and was on the Dean's Honours list in 2007/08 and 2008/09. Apart from his active participation in co-curricular activities and community services, he had been to Tsinghua University for a study tour.
Miss Janice Zhang Haoran is an accounting student of the School of Accounting and Finance. She came third in class in the past two years and won the PolyU Non-local Students Scholarship for four consecutive years from 2006-2010. She had been to the US for an exchange programme and to The Palace Museum in Beijing for placement under PGDP.
Mr Ken Cheung Hiu-fung is a student of the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics. He was the top student in the past two years and was on the Dean's Honours List in 2007/08 and 2008/09. He was awarded the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2009/10. Ken has actively involved in community services, which included the "Cartier Wu Zhi Qiao" bridge building programme.
Mr Lozen Liu Zhiyue is a computing student with excellent academic performance. He was awarded the HKMA IT Management Club Scholarship 2009/10 and PolyU Mainland Students Scholarship from 2006/07 to 2007/08 and 2009/10. He had been to Shanghai for a summer internship programme and to Singapore for an exchange programme.
Mr Kevin Yee Ka-fai is a nursing student who has been a top student in class in his last three years of study. He was the winner of the Li Po Chun Charitable Trust Fund Scholarship in 2008/09 and Kai Chong Tong Scholarship in 2007/08. In addition to enthusiastic participation in community services, Kevin had been to the UK for clinical placement in the summer of 2009.
Mr Anthony Chiu Chi-un is studying Language Studies for the Professions and among the top students in class in the past two years. He won the Hang Seng Bank Scholarship in 2008/09. He had been to Australia for an internship programme and the UK for a delegation in the International Youth Exchange Programme organized by the Home Affairs Bureau, HKSAR.
Awardees are each presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000 and their names are inscribed on a plaque on PolyU campus.
PolyU's Outstanding Student Award is granted on an annual basis to full-time final-year students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits during their studies. Each academic department is allowed to nominate one candidate, who has to compete with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. Subsequently, the "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" is selected among the six awardees from different faculties as well as the two nominees from the School of Design and the School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
