
[date]2007.11.19[/date]
[title]Breakthrough for improving construction safety at height[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Construction Industry Institute Hong Kong (CII-HK) have jointly developed a Rapid Demountable Platform (RDP). The RDP  provides an alternative system which is safer than the traditional bamboo truss-out scaffold when carrying out repair and maintenance works on high-rise buildings.
This breakthrough is part of a study entitled 'Construction safety involving working at height for residential building repair and maintenance'. Chaired by Mr. C.K. Lau, the CII-HK Research Taskforce comprised senior members of the industry and representatives from various government departments.
The design and use of RDP was further explained at a press briefing hosted by Mr Lau; Dr Nicolas Yeung, Director of CII-HK; Prof. Francis Wong, Head of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate; and Principal Investigator Prof. Albert Chan.
They said the joint study concluded traditional bamboo truss-out scaffold was the root cause of many recent fall accidents in Hong Kong. There is an urgent need to look into other alternatives, and the Taskforce has therefore invited PolyU researchers to design this RDP for use in residential building repair and maintenance.
Unlike bamboo truss-out scaffold which relies on proper installation of a few anchor bolts fixed to external walls, the RDP is a robust and solidly built device with steel panels and fixtures. To maximize convenience for workers, RDP can be easily installed and dismantled within 15 minutes. It can be attached to the window side of a residential flat and hung over the wall for workers to carry out their duties safely at height.
Moreover, this modular-based platform can flexibly suit workers' need in carrying out various minor maintenance works, including external wall inspection, changing air-conditioning unit, maintenance of plumbing/drainage system, painting, etc.
To further enhance construction safety, the Taskforce also suggested organizing more workshops to provide training for workers. In addition, employers should provide necessary personal protective equipment for their staff members.
The development of this RDP is supported by skilled designers and engineers of the University's School of Design and Industrial Centre. PolyU and CII-HK have filed a patent both in Hong Kong and the People's Republic of China (PRC) for this innovation.  Before commercial production, the design of the RDP will be further developed and refined for wider applications.
