
[date]2007.06.06[/date]
[title]PolyU-KCRC Smart Railway Research Laboratory unveiled[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is taking active steps to push ahead with the study of railway safety through the establishment of PolyU-Kowloon Canton Railway Corporation (KCRC) Smart Railway Research Laboratory on its campus.
The new facility was officially unveiled by Guest-of-Honour Mr James Blakes, Chief Executive Officer of KCRC; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, at a special ceremony held yesterday (6 June) on the university campus.
Addressing the audience, Prof. Poon said this new initiative signified the importance of collaboration between PolyU and industry. He said: 'This collaboration truly represents our joint commitment to safeguard the operation of our railway infrastructures. We believe the opening of this facility will create a win-win situation for both PolyU and KCRC, and ultimately benefit the community at large.'
He also thanked KCRC for providing manpower support and additional resources, including noticeably a real cabin and rail tracks, for PolyU researchers to conduct sophisticated tests in real-life settings.
Led by Prof. Ho Siu-lau of the Department of Electrical Engineering (EE), the new laboratory is purposefully built for researches which aim to enhance the operation and safety of railways. It thrives on award-winning fibre optic sensor technologies originally developed by his colleague Prof. Tam Hwa-yaw. These technologies are being put to good use in real-life settings through their joint efforts.
In 2004, Prof. Tam's 'Advanced Fibre Bragg Grating Railway Monitoring System' earned a Gold Medal in the 32nd International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products, held in Geneva. The 'Innovative Opto-Electronics Railway Monitoring System' jointly developed by Prof. Tam and Prof. Ho also scored a Bronze Medal in the 5th China International Invention Expo, held in Shanghai in the same year.
Since 2003, PolyU's engineering experts and scientists have been working closely together with KCRC to develop a novel 'Fibre Optic Sensor System' for monitoring the train conditions and track activities of the East Rail. University staff are now supporting the installation of the system for monitoring the 'health and safety' of the tracks and trains along the East Rail which links Hong Kong to the Chinese mainland.
The laboratory occupies an area of 157 square metres. It is anticipated to expedite the use of PolyU-developed safety technologies to other railway corporations.
