
[date]2008.07.16[/date]
[title]PolyU ranks among Asia’s best in Operations Research and Management Science[/title]
According to a recent study published in the latest Asia-Pacific Journal of Operational Research, an international journal published by World Scientific and the official journal of the Association of Asian-Pacific Operational Research Societies, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) ranks as the fourth most productive institution among all Asian countries in publishing research papers in the area of Operations Research and Management Science (OR/MS), topping other universities in Hong Kong.
The study examined the 89,293 papers published in 60 OR/MS academic journals in the world from 1968 to 2006, and found that Asian countries or regions had contributed 16.6 per cent of the papers, including the 2.2 per cent by Hong Kong. PolyU alone had published 483 papers in the discipline, ranking fourth in Asia after the Indian Institute of Technology, the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, and the National University of Singapore. In Hong Kong, PolyU bested other local universities to sit at the top of the chart, having produced 101 papers more than the second-place university.
Furthermore, Prof. Edwin Cheng Tai-chiu, PolyU's Chair Professor of Management in the Department of Logistics, was found to be the most productive author in OR/MS in Asia in terms of the number of research papers published. As a Hong Kong academic, Prof. Cheng has published 133 journal papers within the period under study, significantly outdoing all other Asian academics in the field.
Prof. Cheng's research has also achieved superior impact as measured by the overall number of citations of papers and overall h-index, an internationally accepted measure to quantify the research performance of individual scientists. Ever since his research career started in the UK, Prof. Cheng has attracted 1,477 citations of his papers and has scored an overall h-index of 19 in OR/MS, ranking first among Asian researchers in the field.
Prof. Cheng earned his PhD degree in Operations Research from the University of Cambridge in 1984. In 1992 he was bestowed the Outstanding Young Engineer of the Year Award by the Institute of Industrial Engineers, U.S.A. In 2001, he was honoured with the prestigious Croucher Senior Research Fellowship in Hong Kong. In 2006, Prof. Cheng was awarded the Doctor of Science degree by the University of Cambridge for his distinguished research contribution to scheduling science. He is now Member of the Association of Professional Engineers of the province of Manitoba, Canada; Member of the British Computer Society, UK; Fellow of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, UK; Senior Member of the Institution of Industrial Engineers, USA; Member of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences, USA; and Life Member of the Production and Operations Management Society, USA.
