
[date]2007.03.02[/date]
[title]Double honour for PolyU’s Faculty of Business[/title]
The Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has once again testified its superb quality for being listed among the world's top 100 business schools in an independent survey conducted by the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD). It has also achieved accreditation status of EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) by the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD).
In compiling the league table of business schools worldwide, UTD researchers has analyzed research contributions of business school faculty based on their publications in 24 leading journals during the period 2002-2006. FB of PolyU was ranked among the top 100 business schools worldwide in this exercise.
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of PolyU's Graduate School of Business (GSB), was delighted with this recognition bestowed on the Faculty. 'We are proud of the success which sets the Faulty among the top 100 business schools in the world.
'The EQUIS award also demonstrates our high level of academic and educational quality and our unparalleled commitment to internationalisation. With this accreditation status, FB has joined the league as some of the world most famous business schools such as IMD, INSEAD and the London Business School,' she said.
'Like the AMBA accreditation that we received last year, EQUIS is based on objective criteria and a stringent evaluation process by leading experts in business education. This new recognition is more encompassing because EQUIS covers all programmes offered by a business school from the undergraduate up to the doctoral level.'
Launched in 1997, EQUIS is the quality assurance scheme run by EFMD based in Brussels of Belgium. It is a leading international system of quality assessment, improvement, and accreditation of higher education institutions in management and business administration. Up-to-date, EFMD has given this accreditation to 105 institutions across 30 countries and territories.
While other accreditation authority primarily focuses on the MBA or any specific course, EQUIS covers all activities conducted by a business school, including all of its degree programmes, executive education courses, research and community outreach.
For further information about FB, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/fb
