
[date]2008.08.21[/date]
[title]PolyU Geo-Informatics scientist wins international award[/title]
Prof. Li Zhilin of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, a leading scientist studying digital mapping and geographical information processing, has recently been bestowed with the Gino Cassinis Award by the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS) at its 21st Congress held in Beijing. He was rewarded for 'his significant contribution to the development of algorithmic foundation of multi-scale representation of spatial data'. 
ISPRS was founded in Vienna, Austria in 1910 and has over 100 nation members. ISPRS holds its Congress every four years, during which awards are presented. The Gino Cassinis Award is sponsored by the Italian Society for Surveying and Photogrammetry and is presented to a scholar who has significantly enhanced the mathematical and statistical foundations of the photogrammetry, remote sensing or spatial information sciences in the four years preceding the ISPRS Congress.
Prof. Li has recently authored a book titled Algorithmic Foundation of Multi-scale Spatial Representation, published in 2007 by CRC Press (Taylor &amp; Francis Group). This book lays down an excellent mathematical/algorithmic foundation for multi-scale representation and digital map generalization.  He carried out a systematic study of the geometric transformations required for multi-scale representation and has differentiated six groups with a total of 40 operations (while there are only 12 or fewer operations in existing literature). After the appropriate operations have been identified, Prof. Li has made at least one algorithm available for each of them. All algorithms for these operations together form a mathematical foundation for multi-scale representation and digital map generalization.
Awarded with the Schwidefsky Medal by ISPRS in 2004 for his original research and publication in multi-dimensional modelling and related areas, Prof. Li has become the third person honoured twice in ISPRS history. Prof. Li is also the first person in East Asia to have received such an eminent award.
In his illustrious academic career, Prof. Li has received numerous awards and accolades, including the prestigious National Natural Science Award by the Chinese Central Government in 2005; an 'Outstanding Young Scholar' project by the National Natural Science Foundation of China in 2003; the 'National Progress in Surveying and Mapping Award' by Chinese Society for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography in 2003; and an 'Excellent University Textbook' award by the Ministry of Education in 2002.  He also received the PolyU President's Awards for Outstanding Achievement in 2000 and 2005.
Prof. Li was elected Vice-President of International Cartographic Association and Honorary Vice President of Chinese Society of Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography, both in 2007.
 
