
[date]2006.12.04[/date]
[title]PolyU President’s Awards honour distinguished staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) paid tribute to staff members with outstanding performance at the presentation ceremony of the 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance/Achievement 2005/06' held yesterday (4 December).
At the ceremony, the 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance/Achievement' were presented to five individuals and one team. They were selected out of 16 individuals and four teams which won this year's 'Faculty Awards for Outstanding Performance/Achievement' and 'Outstanding Performance/Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff'. 
Coming from different disciplines, the award winners included academic, research, administrative and general grade staff who all demonstrated eminent performance under one of these four categories: Teaching, Research and Scholarly Activities, Services and Overall Contribution. The various awards were presented by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang and the Faculty Deans during yesterday's ceremony.
With 10 years of history, this award scheme acts as a catalyst to motivate staff's work performance and rewards those high achievers' prominent performance. The scheme now adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. This is followed by a shortlist of those exceptionally outstanding staff/team recommended for the President's Awards. This year's awardees are:
Individual AwardsTeaching:- Ms Margaret Liddle, Assistant Professor, School of Accounting and Finance
Research and Scholarly Activities:- Dr Derek Siu-wing Or, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Physics- Ir Prof. Hau-chung Man, Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Services:- Ir Dr Winco Kam-chuen Yung, Associate Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Overall Contribution:- Miss Chan Ching-yi, Clerical Officer II, Research Office
Team AwardsOverall Contribution:- Ir Paul Lau, Associate Director; Ir Robert W.M. Tam, Senior Engineer; Mr Lai Chi-kwong, Engineer; Ir Edward Y.H. Cheung, Engineer; and Ir Jasper Wong Tak-ho, Engineer of Industrial Centre; Dr Norbert C. Cheung, Assistant Professor; Dr Edward Lo, Assistant Professor; Dr W.L. Chan, Associate Professor; and Prof. S.L. Ho, Chair Professor and Associate Head of Department of Electrical Engineering
Ms Liddle joined the University in 1992 and mainly teaches business law and applied legal studies. In presenting complex legal issues, she always concretizes abstractions with illustrations drawn from daily life for students' easy comprehension. Her teaching pedagogy is problem based learning in conjunction with case method.
Dr Or began his academic career at PolyU in 2002. He has built up a substantial research programme on the processing, characterization and application of magnetostrictive, magnetoelectric, multiferroic and ferromagnetic shape memory materials. He is actively involved in multidisciplinary research projects, consultancy work and publication of journals. He has also won a few international awards for inventions. 
Ir Prof. Man served the University since 1990. He enjoys international standing in research and has published many highly impact journal and conference papers in the field of material science. He successfully established the one-of-its-kind Laser Processing Centre and introduced laser materials processing technology to the Hong Kong industry.
Ir Dr Yung joined the University in 1990. He has been actively disseminating technology know-hows of Printed Circuit Board and Green Manufacturing through research and development, partnership and consultancy projects with local and overseas industries, Hong Kong Trade Development Council and the Government.
Miss Chan has 13 years of service in the University. She effectively and efficiently provides one-stop-shop services to the research postgraduate students and academic staff that she served. Over the years, she has successfully built up and maintained a trusting and harmonious working relationship with her clients and colleagues.
Under the leadership of Ir Lau and with the collaborative efforts of staff from the Industrial Centre and Department of Electrical Engineering, the team designed the e-Channels for the Immigration Department. This automatic vehicle clearance system, which was installed at the border check points between Hong Kong and the mainland, has improved the security, efficiency and effectiveness of the clearance process.   
