
[date]2006.11.22[/date]
[title]PolyU scholar conferred renowned French national award[/title]
Prof. Lu Jian, Chair Professor and Head of Department of Mechanical Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently been awarded 'The French Knight Order of National Merit' (Chevalier de l'Ordre National du Merite) by the French Government in recognition of his illustrious research and academic achievements in the fields of material science and engineering, mechanical engineering and mechanics.
The National Order of Merit, nominated by the President of the Republic of France, was created to reward French citizens for their outstanding merits acquired either in a public office, civil or military, or in the exercise of a private activity. Foreigners are also eligible to receive the Order of Merit in recognition of their dedication to promote ties between their country and France.
Since 1993, Prof. Lu has been making substantial contribution to the establishment of the University of Technology of Troyes, France (UTT). Prof. Lu successfully set up UTT's Department of Mechanical System Engineering which included the establishment of the academic and research laboratories which were later associated to the France's National Centre of Scientific Research (CNRS). Besides, Prof. Lu's endeavours in making UTT an international name is also indispensable. By laying a solid foundation of exchanges between France and other countries around the world, Prof. Lu has also made tremendous contribution to enhancing cooperation between France and China in the field of mechanical engineering.
On behalf of the President of the Republic of France, the award was presented to Prof. Lu by Prof. Paul Gaillard, Former President of UTT at a special ceremony held in Shanghai earlier this month. The ceremony was also witnessed by the representatives from both France and China including Prof. Francois Guinot, President of French Academy of Engineering; Prof. Bruno Jarry, Academician, French Academy of Engineering; Prof. Pascal Fournier, President of University of Technology of Belfort Montbeliart; Prof. Christian Lerminiaux, President of UTT; Prof. Yang Wei, President of Zhejiang University; Prof. Zhou Zhewei, Executive Vice President of Shanghai Univeristy and Prof. Li Youmei, Vice President of Shanghai University.
On the same occasion, the Sino-European School of Shanghai University was also officially inaugurated with the support of the French Academy of Engineering and the Chinese Academy of Engineering. A commemorative plaque was unveiled by Presidents of the two Academies, Prof. Francois Guinot and Prof. Xu Kuangdi. The School, jointly set up by Shanghai University, three French universities and nine other European Universities, offers Bachelor and Master degree engineering programmes for 1,500 students in the Chinese mainland and in Europe. Prof. Lu is the Chairman of the Management Committee of the School.
Prof. Lu commenced his undergraduate education in Peking University in 1978 before being selected by the Chinese Ministry of Education for overseas study in 1979. He obtained his doctorate degree from the University of Technology of Compiegne, France. From 1986 to 1994, he was an engineer in the CETIM, a French technical centre for mechanical industries and later served as Senior Research Engineer and headed the Residual Stress and Coating Adhesion Laboratory of the Center's Material Department. He then embarked on his academic career in 1994 when he joined UTT as the founding Head of its Mechanical Systems Engineering (MSE) Department until 2004 and he was also Director of its Laboratory of Mechanical Systems and Concurrent Engineering, a laboratory with 55 research scientists jointly supported by the French Ministry of Education and the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS). He was appointed Chair Professor and Head of PolyU's Department of Mechanical Engineering last December.
Prof. Lu's primary research interest is engineering mechanics with a combination of experimental mechanics and mechanical simulation. He has also branched out into several other areas of interest including mechanics of nano-materials, multi-axial fatigue theory and application, CAD/CAM, reverse engineering and nano-science and nano-technology. He holds four patents in the field of nano-materials and has published a total of 320 publications including some publications in authoritative journals, including Science.
