
[date]2006.11.27[/date]
[title]PolyU scholar elected World President of The Textile Institute[/title]
Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Head and Chair Professor of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), has recently been elected unanimously by the Council of The Textile Institute (TI) as the TI World President for a tenure of two years from May 2007.
Founded in 1910, TI is a unique organisation representing the interests of professionals working in the textile, clothing and footwear sections throughout the world. With promoting professionalism in the industries worldwide as its mission, TI also plays a vital role in facilitating learning of professionals. Currently, TI has individual and corporate members in over 90 countries. Prof. Tao is currently a fellow of TI International and the Editor-in-Chief of Textile Progress, one of the internationally recognised journals published by the TI International.
Prof. Tao said she is most honoured to be the first female Asian academic being elected for the TI World President. 'This election is not only my personal honour, but also a strong intentional recognition of the standing and achievements of both PolyU and ITC,' she added. 'I will make more visible contributions to the profession worldwide while being an ambassador for PolyU and ITC.'
Prof. Tao obtained her PhD degree in Textile Physics from University of New South Wales, Australia in 1987. She is also an elected fellow of the American Society of Mechanic Engineers, Hong Kong Institution of Textiles and Apparel and Royal Society of Arts and Design, UK, as well as a member of many professional bodies and editorial boards of several international journals.
Prof. Tao's research efforts focus on the development of new textile materials and technology, which have won her numerous international scholarships and prizes. With over 470 research papers published and 12 patents granted, she has been internationally recognised in particular for her pioneering work on smart textile and clothing, photonic fibres and display fabrics, new yarn manufacturing technologies as well as textile composites.
Prof. Tao has been leading ITC to become one of the world's leading fashion and textile departments by working closely with the industry. Under her headship, ITC had successfully secured the funding support from the industry and the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund, amounting to over HK$330M, for the establishment of Hong Kong's first 'Research and Development Centre for Textile and Clothing" in 2005 at PolyU.
