
[date]2006.04.12[/date]
[title]PolyU academic awarded Doctor of Science by the University of Cambridge[/title]
Professor Edwin Cheng Tai-chiu, Chair Professor of Management, Department of Logistics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), was awarded the Doctor of Science degree by the University of Cambridge last month (March) for his distinguished research attainment in scheduling science. The Doctor of Science degree is a higher doctorate and one of the highest academic recognitions any researcher of science can reap.
Prof. Cheng's persistent and painstaking research effort on scheduling problems over the past 20 years has resulted in a large number of published works in leading international journals, significantly advancing the frontier of knowledge in scheduling science. The Board of Graduate Studies at the University of Cambridge has rigorously assessed 66 of his selected scholarly output for four years before he was approved for and honoured with the accolade.
According to the University of Cambridge, the level of attainment required for the Doctor of Science degree is very substantially higher than that required for the PhD degree. This higher doctorate, which carries great prestige within the University of Cambridge, acknowledges the holder's crowning achievements through original contribution to the advancement of science.
An internationally known expert in the fields of Production and Operation Management, Operations Research and Industrial Engineering, Prof. Cheng has won notable acclaims in research on scheduling science in particular. Scheduling deals with the optimal allocation of limited resources to a set of activities over time for maximizing the return or minimizing the consumption of the resources. Research findings are useful to decision making concerning resources utilization, for instance, setting priorities for executing tasks in the context of management.
Prof. Cheng earned his PhD degree in Operations Research from the University of Cambridge in 1984. In 1992 he was bestowed the Outstanding Young Engineer of the Year Award by the Institute of Industrial Engineers, U.S.A. In 2001, he was honoured with the prestigious Croucher Senior Research Fellowship in Hong Kong. He is now Member of the Association of Professional Engineers of the province of Manitoba, Canada; Member of the British Computer Society; Fellow of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, UK; Senior Member of the Institution of Industrial Engineers, USA; Member of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences, USA; and Life Member of the Production and Operations Management Society, USA.
A co-author of three books, Prof. Cheng has published more than 300 papers in academic and professional journals and currently serves as editor or on the editorial board of 10 international journals. Furthermore, he has secured over HK$25 million in research grants. His published works in the field of Logistics often top the lists of the most requested papers available on ScienceDirect, the world's largest electronic database of research information about science, technology and medicine. For five years in a row, Prof. Cheng has been named one of the world's "most cited scientists" (top 1% in terms of citation frequency) in the Field of Engineering, and in All Fields, by the ISI Web of Knowledge, a highly regarded international citation database. In addition to pursuing teaching and research, he is also active in providing executive training and consultancy services to government, business and industry.
