
[date]2006.01.12[/date]
[title]PolyU MBA Programmes Win International Acclaim[/title]
Hong Kong, 12 January 2006: All the Master of Business Administration programmes offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Graduate School of Business have recently been successfully accredited by the UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA). Our Graduate School is the first business school in Hong Kong and the Mainland which has been granted AMBA accreditation status.
Prof. Judy Tsui, Dean of Faculty of Business and Director of the Graduate School of Business said with delight "The AMBA accreditation is an important milestone as it is a recognition of the international standing of our MBA programmes including our China MBA and EMBA programmes. The accreditation further helps distinguish PolyU MBAs from similar programmes offered in the competitive market for business education in the world."
The Association's International Accreditation Advisory Board has recently granted the accreditation status for five years to the Graduate School, basing on its clarity of mission, dynamic leadership, excellent staff, students and faculty credentials, and outstanding documentation.
The newly accredited programmes include all the MBA programmes offered by the Graduate School, including those offered in Hong Kong, the Mainland as well as the China EMBA programme. These programmes provide further education opportunities for business executives and professionals to enhance their professional competence and skills.
Our Graduate School offers the widest spectrum of postgraduate business programmes in the Asia-Pacific Region. To nurture future leaders for the local and Mainland business community, the School offers a diversity of programmes including Professional Accounting and Finance programmes, specialized Masters and DBAs.
AMBA was established in 1967 in the UK and one of its objectives is to ensure that the quality of Masters level business education is conducive to producing professional business leaders. The Association provides a network for MBAs, business schools and employers through an important forum for the exchange of knowledge, ideas and best practice.
For further information about the Graduate School of Business, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb
