
[date]2005.11.21[/date]
[title]PolyU develops rehab technology for Chinese Olympic athletes[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is bringing together multi-disciplinary experts to develop novel rehabilitation treatment for Chinese Olympics athletes.
Led by Prof. Thomas Wong, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, the team of experts come from different departments. They include Prof. Joanne Chung from the School of Nursing; sports scientist Dr Bob Chen Fangcan; Dr Eric Tam Wing-cheung, Assistant Professor of the Department of Health Technology and Informatics, and nutritionist Ms Louisa Chung.
The University has been recently designated by the China Sports Bureau's Gymnastic Management Centre as its Sports Health and Rehabilitation Centre and a collaborative research partner for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. PolyU's multi-disciplinary experts will care for Chinese Olympic athletes during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
At yesterday's (November 21) press briefing held on the university campus, PolyU researchers demonstrated some novel rehabilitation treatments for Olympic athletes, including a computerized Taichi exercise on mat with pebbles.
Prof. Chung said Miss Chen Luyun, who is the forward in the Chinese Olympic Basketball Team, has benefited from this special Taichi treatment.
"Miss Chen hurt herself during a game in the 2004 Athens Olympics. After receiving intensive rehabilitation treatment for one month at PolyU's Integrative Health Clinic, she is now able to play for the Chinese Basketball Team again," she said.
Apart from Taichi exercise, the treatment for Miss Chen also involved balance and stability training, cardio-endurance training, hydrotherapy and sport-specific training. Prof. Chung added that the rehabilitation programme can be tailored to suit individual needs of Chinese Olympic athletes.
PolyU, represented by Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang and Prof. Thomas Wong, signed the collaborative agreement with the China Sports Bureau's Gymanstic Management Centre on 7 November in Beijing.
