
[date]2005.05.10[/date]
[title]PolyU and Construction Industry Institute -  Hong Kong sign pacton on costs and benefits of undertaking green building assessments[/title]
Researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are embarking on a multi-disciplinary project on "Costs and Financial Benefits of Undertaking Green Building Assessments", backed by the funding from the Construction Industry Institute - Hong Kong (CII-HK).
To mark the commitment of both sides to this project, the two parties entered into a research agreement at a signing ceremony held at PolyU yesterday (10 May). The signing was officiated at by Mr Macro Wu Moon-hoi, Director of Buildings, Buildings Department of the HKSAR Government. The agreement was signed by Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU's Vice President (Research Development) and Dean of Faculty of Construction and Land Use, and Mr Michael Arnold, Member of Executive Board of CII-HK.
CII-HK is a collaborative research institute between academia and the construction industry. Proposals on projects are received from local and international research institutions. A Research Task Force has been set up to monitor the performance and to provide assistance to the research team in carrying out the project. This Task Force headed by Mr. Michael Arnold comprises representatives from relevant sectors of the construction industry.
Expressing grateful appreciation to CII-HK for funding the research in co-operation with PolyU, Prof. Ko said: "PolyU and CII-HK share a common concern for the large number of buildings in Hong Kong which are not generally designed to be environmentally friendly. As our partners at CII-HK rightly recognizes, a comprehensive research is needed to address the issue, taking into account the complex interplay between users, government authorities and community service providers."
The first stage of study, spanning nine months, aims at reducing the uncertainty about the cost of sustainability of green buildings by providing independent data. It will also define the environmental benefits that result from various levels of green building performance. The analysis will enable developers to determine the tangible benefits of obtaining a green building assessment rating.
The research team is led by Prof. John Burnett, Chair Professor of Building Services Engineering (BSE), in collaboration with Dr Chau Chi-kwan and Dr Lee Wai-ling, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor of BSE respectively. Apart from BSE, the team also includes Mr Kevin Edmunds, Deputy Director of Business Environmental Council.
