
[date]2005.03.03[/date]
[title]New wrist fracture splint assures speedy recovery[/title]
Inter-disciplinary experts of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have developed a new type of wrist fracture splint which provides a viable alternative to plaster casting. It can also help elderly patients recover faster and better.
Known as the "Wrist Fracture Healing System", the new device is jointly developed by Dr Guo Xia, Assistant Professor of PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences; and Dr Man Hau-chung, Associate Professor of the Department of Industrial and System Engineering.
PolyU researchers have not only filed a patent for this important breakthrough, but also found a business partner to commercialize this device. At a special ceremony held yesterday (March 3) on the PolyU campus, the licensing agreement was signed by Mr Wang Xiao-chun, Managing Director of Guizhou Tongjitang Medicine Co. Ltd; and Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development).
Under the licensing agreement, PolyU has authorised Tongjitang for the production and launch of this product in the mainland market. The company will also invest RMB 5 million for the further development and promotion of this medical device.
According to Dr Guo Xia, it is estimated that every year nearly 25 million elderly Chinese people (above the age of 50) are suffering from wrist fractures. This phenomenon is more severe in the northern part of China, where elderly people are prone to fall on slippery, snowy ground in the winter.
The new device is designed based on the concept of splint technique in traditional Chinese medicine. With the installation of a universal joint, the system allows greater movement of the wrist in different directions. This is considered a major improvement as compared to the rigid form of plaster cast, especially for elderly patients.
"Although plaster casting is almost the most common treatment for wrist fracture, nearly 50 per cent of patients will experience continuing residual impairment and pain after fracture healing because of rigid immobilization," said Dr Guo.
Not only does the innovative device allows greater hand movement, its splint is also evenly spaced out with holes that make it easier for the patients to receive ultrasonic, magnetic and other physical interventions, and ultimately lead to a speedy recovery.
Unlike calcium-rich plaster cast, the splint is made of X-ray penetrable polymer composite material which makes X-ray imaging of the bone clearer. Therefore medical practitioners can now monitor the recovery progress of patients without breaking the plaster cast.
With the support of two mainland hospitals, the new device will be put to clinical trial. It will be launched in the mainland market as soon as by the end of 2005.
