
[date]2006.05.22[/date]
[title]PolyU scholar named International Scientist of the Year[/title]
An outstanding young scholar of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been named "International Scientist of the Year 2006" by the International Biographical Centre (IBC) of Cambridge in the UK.
The prestigious honour goes to Dr. Walid Daoud, Lecturer of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), in recognition of his distinguished accomplishments over the years and his contributions to the further advancement of science and technology.
In the notification letter from IBC, Mr. Nicholas Law, Director General, said the selection committee has reviewed "tens of thousands of biographies which have been published in their scientific directories" and "only a few have been chosen for this accolade". Past recipients of the International Scientist of the Year Award include Dr. Alan G. MacDiarmid, the 2000 Nobel Prize Laureate in Chemistry.
Following this recognition, Dr. Daoud's biography will be listed in many major publications of IBC. The Centre is a leading publisher of biographical reference books of the world's eminent individuals in 34 major Who's Who titles in over 154 separate editions. It is also responsible for the publication of the Dictionary of International Biography and 2000 Outstanding Scientists of the 20th and 21st Century. Copies of these books are held in University and civic libraries, research institutes and media centres around the globe.
Dr. Daoud graduated from the University of Technology Graz, Austria, in 1997 with a Dipl-Ing degree (BS and MS) in Chemical Engineering and received his PhD in Materials Chemistry from the University of Sheffield, UK, in 2001. He joined PolyU as a Research Associate in 2002, was promoted to Research Fellow in 2004 and further appointed a Lecturer of ITC in 2005.
Dr. Daoud and his team are renowned for their invention of the self-cleaning fabrics with the sophisticated use of nanotechnology. This revolutionary breakthrough was reported in the authoritative science magazine Nature (June 2004 issue). The team also won a Gold Medal for the project "Self-cleaning Garment" in the 34th International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products, which was held earlier this year in Geneva.
His current research interests include conductive polymers, ceramics, nanomaterials, composites, thin films, catalysis, sensors and photovoltaics. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the Royal Society of Chemistry (UK), the Institution of Chemical Engineers (UK) and the American Ceramic Society.
