
[date]2005.04.01[/date]
[title]PolyU Scientist wins National Natural Science Award[/title]
Prof. Li Zhilin of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, a pioneering scientist studying digital mapping and geographical information processing, has been recently bestowed with the 2004 National Natural Science Award.
Organized by the State Council, the national award was the highest honour given by the Central Government in recognition of advancement in basic research. This year a total of 28 second-class prizes were selected among over 100 entries after three rounds of rigorous review, and Prof. Li is the only academic from Hong Kong among the list of awardees.
The award certificates were presented by top Chinese leaders Hu Jintao and Wen Jiaobao to the representatives of recipients at a gala event held in Beijing on 28 March. Prof. Li's collaborator Prof. Chen Jun received the award on behalf of the team.
Prof. Li and his team are honoured for their achievement in "Dynamic and Multi-dimensional Modeling of Digital Ground Models", which are highly sophisticated mathematical modelling and representation of terrain surface, terrain features and the relationship between terrain features, with applications in map making and spatial decision making. This project is the fruit of collaborative research over 10 years, with a number of research projects funded by the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong and National Natural Foundation of China. The project was nominated by the State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping to compete for the national award.
In his illustrious academic career, Prof. Li has received numerous awards. He was honoured by the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing with the Schwidefsky Medal in 2004 for his original research and publications, awarded an "Outstanding Young Scholar" project by the National Natural Science Foundation of China in 2003. and presented with an "Excellent University Textbook" award by the Ministry of Education in 2002. In 1993, he was presented with the first-class prize of the "Progress in Surveying and Mapping Award" by Chinese Society for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography.
Prof. Li obtained his first degree from the Southwestern Jiaotong University (China) in 1982 and completed this doctoral studies from the University of Glasgow in the UK in 1990. He joined PolyU as an Assistant Professor in 1996, and was promoted to Associate Professor in 1998. He assumed full professorship in 2003. He also received the PolyU President's Award for Outstanding Achievement in 2000.
A prolific researcher, he has authored over 180 publications, including 2 books, 95 papers published in refereed journals and more than 10 book chapters. His recent publication Digital Terrain Modeling: Principles and Methodology, published by CRC Press in 2005, is the first and only authored book in the discipline.
