
[date]2004.12.07[/date]
[title]Study found partnering practices beneficial to the construction industry[/title]
The adoption of partnering practices in managing large-scale construction projects can not only achieve better cost-effectiveness, but also further improve the overall quality of the project. These findings are revealed in a study undertaken by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Building and Real Estates (BRE) and commissioned by the Construction Industry Institute, Hong Kong (CII-HK).
According to Prof. Albert Chan of BRE, partnering practice, a concept originated from the US, is a structured process of establishing working relationships based on mutual trust between contracting parties. This approach has gained increasing popularity in the local construction industry since its first implementation in the construction of the North District Hospital in 1994. It was also recommended by the SAR Government's Construction Industry Review Committee in its "Construct for Excellence" Report (as in the Executive Summary, Point 14).
Headed by Prof. Chan and Dr Nicolas Yeung, Director of CII-HK, the research team has thoroughly reviewed the implementation of partnering practices in both public and private sectors. The study was completed with the support of MTR Corporation (MTRC), the Hong Kong Housing Society and the Hongkong Land Ltd - all Founding Members of CII-HK. The full report will be presented at Hong Kong's first Conference on Construction Partnering, hosted by CII-HK, to be held on 9 December.
"Our study found that infrastructure projects seem to have benefited more from partnering due to their inherent complexity as well as non-standard designs and construction methods," Prof. Chan said. "By comparison, public sector building works normally adopt standard designs and working procedures, which tend to make the benefits of partnering less noticeable."
According to this study, MTRC has triumphed the implementation of partnering practices in the construction of Hang Hou Station and tunnels as well as platform screen doors. These projects were completed ahead of schedule and within budget.
The study also called for wider adoption of partnering arrangement in both public and private sectors to enhance the quality of construction projects and the industry's long-term competitiveness. With the adoption of partnering arrangement, all project participants can work as a team to achieve shared objectives.
"For partnering to work, the interests, needs, expectations and constraints of every stakeholder should be given fair consideration. The partnering model is therefore ideal for managing mega-scale construction projects such as the Government's proposed West Kowloon Cultural District project," said Prof. Chan.
He stressed that partnering can foster a long-term commitment and create a win-win situation for both clients and the contracting parties. To foster a co-operative working atmosphere and a gain-share/pain-share culture, it could be supported by the Incentivization Agreement and Guaranteed Maximum Price contracting mechanism.
