
[date]2005.07.11[/date]
[title]Construction Industry Institute - Hong Kong and PolyU sign pact  on construction safety project[/title]
Backed by $600,000 funding from the Construction Industry Institute - Hong Kong (CII-HK) and The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), researchers of the University have embarked on the research project 'Construction Safety Involving Working at Height for Residential Building Repair and Maintenance'.
To mark their commitment to this project, CII-HK and PolyU entered into a research agreement at a signing ceremony held at PolyU yesterday (11 July). The signing was witnessed by Mr Thomas Kwok Ping-kwong, Chairman of the Working Group on Construction Site Safety and Employees' Compensation Insurance of the government-appointed Provisional Construction Industry Co-ordination Board, who is also Vice Chairman and Managing Director of
Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited. The ceremony was also attended by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, and Mr C. K. Lau, CII-HK Task Force Chairman for the project. The agreement was signed by Mr Otto Poon Lok-to, Member of Executive Board of CII-HK, and Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU's Vice President (Research Development).
The research team is led by Prof. Albert Chan Ping-chuen, Associate Head and Professor of the PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE), and Prof. Francis Wong Kwan-wah, Head of BRE. The other team members include Dr Daniel Chan, Prof. Edwin Chan, Mr Albert Kwok, Dr Michael Yam, Dr Edward Yiu and Dr Edmond Lam.
Prof. Ko said at the ceremony: 'PolyU and CII-HK share a common concern for the pressing need to minimize injuries and fatalities in both new construction and maintenance work - particularly considering the increasing demand of repair of existing housing stock in Hong Kong, one third of which having been built for more than 20 years.'
CII-HK is a collaborative research institute between academia and the construction industry. A Research Task Force, comprising representatives from relevant sectors of the construction industry, has been set up to monitor the performance and to provide assistance to the research team in carrying out the project.
According to Principal Investigator (PI) Prof. Chan, the project, spanning about 15 months, was launched to improve construction safety involving working at height for residential building repair and maintenance works.
Head of the department and Co-PI Prof. Wong said the project team had already produced an interim report, identifying the fall of persons from height as a major problem in construction projects and covering the following aspects:
analyses of the principal locations and causes of fall accidents, fall precautionary measures and practical solutions to fall accidents; 
outline of relevant codes of practice, legislative control and court cases related to fall accidents in construction projects; and 
sources of accidents data and case analyses of fall accidents between 2003 to May 2005 
The team will work to produce a final report and the following major deliverables in early 2006:
a comprehensive database of the types of falls from height accidents associated with ageing buildings and their scale; 
provision of safety practice notes for activities involving working at height for building repair and maintenance; and 
proposals for viable approaches to address the economic, social and legal issues involved in implementing technological solutions and proposals for preventing the occurrence of similar accidents in residential building repair and maintenance. 
Although the total number of accidents in the construction industry dropped from 6,239 in 2002 to 4,367 in 2003, the fatality rate per 1,000 workers increased from 0.33 in 2002 to 0.39 in 2003. Among the different types of accidents in the construction industry, the numbers of fatalities involving the fall of persons from height were the highest in 2002 and 2003, which were 15 and 9 respectively.
