
[date]2006.03.09[/date]
[title]Distinguished Pair off to US on Fulbright Scholarships[/title]
With the support of the Fulbright-Hong Kong Scholar Programme, two outstanding young scholars of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will enjoy the valuable opportunity of spending six to ten months on researches with major institutions in the United States.
The awardees from PolyU are Dr Ku Hok-bun, Assistant Professor of the Department of Applied Social Sciences; and Mr Wong Man-sing, PhD candidate of the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics.
Dr Ku obtained his PhD in anthropology and sociology from the School of Oriental and African Studies in London in 1999 and joined PolyU in 2001.  He is currently researching on poverty reduction programmes, local empowerment strategies and the efficacy of participatory cultural action in rural development.
Dr Ku will soon embark for the Washington University in the city of St Louis, where he will spend six months on a joint research project on rural China with the Centre for Social Development of the University's School of Social Work.
The other recipient Mr Wong is the first Fulbright-AIG Scholar sponsored by the insurance and financial giant. He is currently pursuing doctoral studies, under the supervision of Associate Professor Dr Janet Elizabeth Nichol, on the use of satellite images for monitoring air pollution in Hong Kong and southern China.
He planned to use the scholarship to spend ten months at the Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Centre of the University of Maryland, Washington DC; and visit the National Aeronautics and Space Administration during his sojourn in the US.
This fellowship programme is jointly supported by the Research Grants Council and the Fulbright Programme of the US. Up to four awards will be made each year for Hong Kong scholars to spend from four to ten months as Fulbright visiting scholars affiliated with major American universities and research institutes.
This year the programme has been further expanded for postgraduate students of local universities. Two new research awards are made possible through generous donations by the Bank of America (Asia) and American International Group (AIG) in honour of Mr Frank Martin, who recently retired as President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong.
The award recipients will each receive grants of up to HK$500,000 to support their research expenses in the US; while the junior award recipient is entitled to up to ten-month award totalling over HK$100,000.  The awardees are expected to return to Hong Kong after completing their studies in the US.
