
[date]2005.01.24[/date]
[title]PolyU researchers excel in Brussels Eureka Exhibition[/title]
Top-notch researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) won top awards in Brussels Eureka 2004, also known as the 53rd World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology, which was held earlier in Brussels, Belgium. The award-winning projects were displayed in the PolyU Innovations and Technology Collaboration Showcase.
This event was kicked off yesterday (24 January) with an Opening Ceremony officiated at by Mr John Tsang Chun-wah, Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology of the HKSAR; and Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President.
Prof. Poon said: 'During the past years, PolyU researchers have performed extremely well in international events including the Geneva and China Invention Expo. This is yet another recognition that our researches have achieved the highest international standard and are on par with other leading institutions around the world.'
The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
I. Prize of Minister Fientje Moerman and Gold Award:
(1) Instant Vision Assessment Device Principal Investigator: Prof. George Woo, Associate Dean, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences &amp; Chair Professor of Optometry
This is a simple one-piece vision assessment device that enables people with refractive error to be assessed within one minute and in the absence of other bulky machines. This telescopic device, which looks like a spectacle, is simple to use: just ask the user to look at some object 6m away, turn the knob to focus the lens and then eyesight abnormality reading can be obtained.
According to Prof. Woo, this low cost device is best suited for the third world and developing countries where people could barely afford the sophisticated and expensive equipment associated with optometry testing. It is so simple to use that it does not even require well-trained personnel to operate the device. It is anticipated that this invention can help save and correct vision of millions of people around the world.
II. Silver Awards:
(2) Shape Memory Fabrics and their preparation methods Principal Investigator: Dr Hu Jinlian, Associate Professor, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
Scientists at PolyU's Institute of Textile and Clothing have invented the world's first cellulose-made shape memory fabric. The research team headed by Dr Hu Jinlian, Principal Investigator of the shape memory project and founder of the Shape Memory Textile Centre, has made significant advances in developing versatile shape memory fabrics and has registered a number of patents in the related area.
Shape memory fabrics can readily recover their original shapes. This distinguishes shape memory garments from other wrinkle-free garments by achieving crease retention, flat appearance, and bagging recovery when washed in hot water. These unique properties of shape memory fabrics make them ideal materials for the textiles and garment industry. Their applications are by no means limited to the realms of pret-a-porter and haute couture.
(3) Mobile Medical Picture Archive and Communication System (PACS) Principal Investigator: Dr Tang Fuk-hay, Assistant Professor, Department of Optometry and Radiography
This is a handy mobile phone controller developed for integration with the Picture Archive and Communication System (PACS) to enhance image management for medical professionals to retrieve vital information at anytime, anywhere. This innovative mobile medical PACS provides an integrated solution to enable medical professionals to assess and diagnose medical conditions based on images acquired through different imaging modalities, such as CT scanners and computed radiography unit.
It is worth mentioning that the use of PACS can help create a filmless environment for viewing medical images; thereby greatly reducing the risk of contracting communicablediseases within the hospital settings. The territory's home-grown PACS system was installed at PolyU, with the support for medical informatics expert Prof. Bernie H.K. Huang and the Chinese Academy of Science's Shanghai Institute of Technical Physics, as a unique model for clinic operation and teaching and research purposes.
III. Bronze Awards:
(4) Carry Bags with anti-bacterial and back-protecting functionsPrincipal Investigator: Dr Li Yi, Associate Professor, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
Fabricated with sophisticated nano-materials, this carrier bag offers better protection for school children and other users. The nano-properties of bag materials basically offer water repellence, anti-bacterial and UV blocking for added protection and better comfort. Coupled with proprietary back-pad function, the school bag can correct children standing posture and lessen stress on their back.
(5) Tissue Ultrasound Palpation System (TUPS) Principal Investigator: Prof. Arthur Mak, Chair Professor and Head, Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre
TUPS makes soft tissue assessment not a mere subjective finger feeling. It uses a patented compound ultrasound and load sensor to measure tissue thickness and stiffness within seconds instead of commonly used hand-feel technique. Its potential applications cover medical fields as well as food, material and cosmetic industries.
In addition, the Point of Sales Logistics Systems with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Technology, which was jointly developed by researchers of the University's Department of Industrial and System Engineering and Mr Lee Shung-chi, CEO of Supply Chain and Logistics Technology Holdings Ltd., also won a Silver Award in this event. This invention concerns logistic systems comprising point of sale user-operated means with RFID application, aiming to cope with the demanding logistics needs which cannot be adequately catered for by the existing bar code system. The application enables data acquisition, data processing and user interaction that allow the retailer to re-engineer the organization of the store, allocate labour resources and set new measures of performance, and hence enhancing efficiency and productivity.
It was also the second time that PolyU participated in this World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology. In 2001, the Mars Rock Corer jointly developed by PolyU researchers and dentist Dr Ng Tsz-chuen also scored a gold medial. The device was subsequently deployed by the European Space Agency in its 2003 Mars Express Mission.
For more details about the 53rd Eureka Exhibition, please refer to its official website at URL: www.brussels-eureka.be
The opening ceremony of the PolyU Innovations and Technology Collaboration Showcase was followed by the Institute for Enterprise's New Year Reception, which was attended by the University's business partners and industry associations.
Members of the public are welcome to visit the Showcase on 24 January (2.30 ' 5.30 p.m.) and 25 January (10 a.m. ' 12.30 p.m. &amp; 2.30 p.m. ' 5.30 p.m.).
