
[date]2010.02.11[/date]
[title]PolyU students participate in Lunar New Year Fair to raise fund for charity[/title]
Computing students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have teamed up with over 100 primary and secondary students and some non-governmental organizations to set up a stall "2010 Lunar New Year Fun Fair" at the Chinese New Year Floral Market in Victoria Park, selling creative products to raise fund for local charities.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, together with Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (International and Executive Education) (Designate), and Mr Timothy Ma Kam-wah, Executive Director, Senior Citizen Home Safety Association, visited the stall today (11 February) to show their support and give encouragement to the participating students.
The Fair is part of "The Innovation Odyssey - Entrepreneurial Challenge" project supported by the Quality Education Fund. It not only provides an opportunity for students to deepen their understanding of entrepreneurship and gain business experience, but also helps foster community care and social inclusion.
The event has gained support from many local schools, including STFA Ho Yat Tung Primary School (A.M.), CCC Kei Faat Primary School (Yau Tong), Yuen Long Public Secondary School, Ho Lap College (Sponsored by The Sik Sik Yuen), and Ning Po College. The proceeds of the Fair will go to local charities, namely Association for Against Child Abuse, Engineering &amp; Medical Volunteer Services, Hong Chi Winifred Mary Cheung Morninghope School, Senior Citizen Home Safety Association, and Society for the Relief of Disabled Children.
During the tour of the Floral Market, Professor Tong also visited other stalls which were set up by students of the Faculty of Business and the Welfare Affairs Committee of the Students' Union. The stalls were filled with festive mood with students introducing their creative products to Professor Tong and taking photos with him.
For more information on "2010 Lunar New Year Fun Fair", please visit http://ioec.comp.polyu.edu.hk/LNYF2010.html.
