
[date]2006.03.21[/date]
[title]Interest rates hikes discounted, property prices expected to stabilize[/title]
The impact of rising interest rates appeared to have been absorbed by the respondents, with market confidence remaining positive, the latest 'BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property' (BRE Index) released by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) shows.
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the first quarter of 2006 stood at 713, down five points from the December 2005 survey. The latest survey conducted in March 2006 concluded with 1,056 interviews which recorded a response rate of 16.15 per cent. Here are the highlights of this quarter's findings:
The survey results show that residential property prices were expected to remain fairly stable in the near future. Overall, the expected average price increase was 1.4 per cent (last survey: 0.2), 3.5 per cent (last survey: 3.7), and 7.2 per cent (last survey: 8.2) in the three-month, one-year and three-year forecast horizons, respectively. Looking to the future, more respondents (36 per cent) expected a stabilized price than those (32 per cent) expected a rise in three months. But the situation reversed for the one-year forecast horizon: 14 per cent for stabilized price and 47 per cent for rising price.
As in previous quarters, housing continued to be considered expensive in Hong Kong. About 79 per cent of homeowners (HOs) (last survey: 68 per cent) and 77 per cent of non-homeowners (NHOs) (last survey: 80 per cent) felt 'somewhat too high' or 'extremely high'. The investment rating was, however, reported 'good' or 'very good' for investment by 35 per cent (last survey: 29 per cent) of HOs and 22 per cent (last survey: 26 per cent) of NHOs.
About 28 per cent (last survey: 30 per cent) of HOs and 20 per cent (last survey: 29 per cent) of NHOs considered it was a 'good' and 'very good' time to buy a real property in Hong Kong. Following the same pattern of last survey, the respondents were uncertain as to when to buy, 74 per cent of HOs (last survey: 67 per cent) and 78 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 68 per cent) had no idea whatsoever. This 'wait-and-see' attitude has remained obvious as interest rates have continued to rise over the past quarters.
For all respondents, family income was named again as the most important factor affecting their housing decision. This is the same observation made over previous surveys. Seventy-eight per cent of HOs (last survey: 76 per cent) and 73 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 80 per cent) rated interest rate 'important' or 'very important'. The order of importance of interest rate was ranked in the same (third) place as in the last survey for HOs; but lowered to the fourth place (last survey: second place) for NHOs.
Assessing the scale of impact of recent interest rate hike on their housing price expectations, about one-third (34 per cent) of HOs (last survey: 45 per cent) and 35 per cent of NHOs (last survey: 43 per cent) said the impact was 'significant' or 'very significant'. Commenting on this and in anticipation of the end of the current cycle of interest rate hike by the next quarter or so, Prof. Hui, Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Center for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) felt that the impact of rising rates had been absorbed.
Ratings of market fundamentals have held steady since last quarter: 43 per cent felt economic conditions would be 'better' or 'much better'; 28 per cent expected their job opportunities would be 'better' or 'much better'; and 20 per cent thought their family income would 'increase somewhat' or 'greatly increase', in three months.
Prof. Francis Wong, Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE, said that many property investors were more cautious about the steady rise in interest rates. Judging from the above buying behavior, he added that market participants were vigilant in price negotiation. However, limited new supply and economic growth anticipated in the next few years would help boost the market confidence.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently, there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
