
[date]2005.02.24[/date]
[title]Construction Industry Institute - Hong Kong and PolyU sign pact on study of ageing buildings[/title]
Backed by $1 million funding from the Construction Industry Institute - Hong Kong (CII-HK) and $300,000 from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), researchers of the University are embarking on a multi-disciplinary project on 'Repair, Maintenance and Sustainability of the Ageing Residential Building Stock in Hong Kong'.
To mark the commitment of both sides to this project, the two parties entered in to a research agreement at a signing ceremony held at PolyU yesterday (24 February). The signing was witnessed by Mr Leung Chin-man, Permanent Secretary for Housing, Planning and Lands (Housing) of the HKSAR Government and Member of the Governing Council of CII-HK, and attended by Dr Nicolas Yeung Shu-yan, Convener and Founding Director of CII-HK. The agreement was signed by Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU's Vice President (Research Development) and Dean of Faculty of Construction and Land Use, and Sir David Akers-Jones, Chairman of CII-HK.
The research team is led by Prof. Andrew Baldwin, Chair Professor of Building and Head of the PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE), and coordinated by Prof. Francis Wong Kwan-wah, Associate Head of BRE and Director of Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics. Apart from BRE, the team integrates a large pool of expertise drawn also from the Department of Applied Social Sciences, the Department of Building Services Engineering, and the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering.
Expressing grateful appreciation to CII-HK for awarding the research contract to PolyU, Prof. Ko said: 'PolyU and CII-HK share a common concern for the large number of residential buildings in Hong Kong which are not adequately maintained. As our partners at CII-HK rightly recognizes, a comprehensive research is needed to address the problem with their maintenance, taking into account the complex interplay between residents, government authorities and community service providers.'
According to Prof. Baldwin, while studies in Hong Kong have focused mainly on public sector housing, the situation of private buildings, particularly old buildings, is drawing growing concern.
Targeting 30-40 year-old residential buildings in Hong Kong, the project aims to analyse legal, social, economic, technical and environmental issues related to the upkeep of those buildings. It also seeks to assess the scale of the remedial work needed and to make recommendations on practical solutions.
The study, spanning 18 months, will produce new data, better understanding of the scale of technological faults and suggest possible remedies from multiple perspectives. The deliverables, basing on the sample buildings surveyed, will include a core report on issues affecting buildings and their sustainability.
The report will analyse not only the timing and costs of the remedial work needed across Hong Kong, but also social implications for residents in terms of financial concerns and their standard and style of living. At the same time, a profile of sustainability measures as an instrument for classifying residential buildings will be developed.
