
[date]2006.03.29[/date]
[title]PolyU scientist named Croucher Senior Research Fellow[/title]
Professor Xu Youlin, Chair Professor of Structural Engineering and Director of the Research Centre for Urban Hazards Mitigation at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), was honoured with the prestigious Senior Research Fellowship of the Croucher Foundation yesterday (28 March), in recognition of his outstanding research achievements. The award was presented by Professor Zhou Guangzhao, Chairman of the China Association for Science and Technology.
At the ceremony, a Memorandum of Understanding was also signed between the Croucher Foundation and Institut Pasteur, the internationally renowned French research institution famous for its leadership in research and achievements in microbiology and life sciences. Under this MOU, both sides agree to strengthen relationship between Hong Kong and France by selecting outstanding young scientists from Hong Kong to gain exposure and experiences at doctoral or postdoctoral levels in Pasteur laboratories throughout France.
Prof. Xu's remarkable research achievements have won him numerous awards. Apart from the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship Award, he received PolyU's Outstanding Consultancy Award in 1998 together with his colleagues. He also received the University's Earmarked Research Grants for Young Professors in 2001/2002. In addition, Prof. Xu received the Natural Science Award (First Prize) from the State Education Commission of PRC together with his research partners in 2003.
Prof. Xu obtained his master's degree in applied mechanics from Shanghai's Tongji University in 1986 and his PhD in structural dynamics and wind engineering from the University of Sydney in 1991. He joined James Cook University of North Queensland in Australia as a research fellow from 1991 to 1995. He then joined PolyU as an Assistant Professor and was promoted to Chair Professor in 2003.
Prof. Xu's research interests include wind loads and wind effects on buildings and long span bridges, seismic loading and seismic effects on buildings and long span bridges, and vibration control and health monitoring of large civil structures. He has been involved in over 55 research/consultancy projects, including the important consultancy projects on the Tsing Ma Bridge, the world's longest road-and-rail suspension bridge, and the Stonecutters Bridge, one of the world's longest cable-stayed bridges to be completed in 2008. From 2002-2005, he also led a $10 million research project on the mitigation of urban hazards which was identified by the University as an Area of Strategic Development.
Prof. Xu is affiliated with renowned national and international professional bodies. He is Vice President of the Chinese Society for Structural Control and Fellow of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers. He is also a member of the 11th steering committee of the International Association of Wind Engineering, a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, and a member of the Australian Wind Engineering Society. 
Prof. Xu is currently Associate Editor of the International Journal of Advances in Structural Engineering, a member of the Editorial Board of the International Journal of Wind and Structures, and a member of the Board of Directors of the Asian-Pacific Network of Centres for Earthquake Engineering Research. Over the years, he has published over 120 research papers in leading international journals and over 140 international conference papers, and he also reviews papers for ten international journals in the field.
The Croucher Senior Research Fellowships scheme was first introduced in 1997/98 academic year.  The value of each Senior Research Fellowship is about US$100,000.  It is awarded to local academics who have excelled in scientific research work.  In recognition of their success and to encourage their further achievement in their given fields, funds will be awarded to the respective institution for recruiting an academic to take over the fellow's duties for the period of the fellowship.  The fellow will then be relieved from teaching tasks for half year or one year and in turn can devote more time and effort to research work.  Each winner will also receive a cash award of HK$40,000.
This year, the Croucher Senior Research Fellowship Awards were presented to seven academics of the local universities. Apart from Prof. Xu, the other recipients were: Professor Chow Hak-fun, Department of Chemistry; Professor Huang Jie, Department of Automation and Computer-Aided Engineering; Professor Dennis Lo Yuk-ming, Department of Chemical Pathology, Chinese University of Hong Kong; Professor Lin Fangzhen, Department of Computer Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; Professor David Lee Philips, Department of Chemistry; Professor Yuen Kwok-yung, Department of Microbiology, University of Hong Kong.
