
[date]2004.12.17[/date]
[title]PolyU takes the lead in studying renewable energy[/title]
Environmental experts of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) are expediting the use of solar energy and wind energy in the territory through the establishment of a Renewable Energy Research Group.
Headed by Dr Yang Hong-xing, Associate Professor of PolyU's Department of Building Services Engineering, the Research Group has not only pioneered the use solar photovoltaic power in Hong Kong, but also conducted extensive studies on feasibility, system design and site measurements of the potential application of wind energy in the territory's outlying areas and in the Greater Pearl River Delta region.
In conducting the research projects, PolyU researchers have carefully assessed the potential of wind energy applications in the region. Renewable energy research laboratories have been established in the University and pilot hybrid solar-wind power projects have been built for China Mobile's communication stations in Guangdong.
To assess wind resources, PolyU researchers have analyzed wind speed data collected at different sites in Hong Kong and Guangdong, including Tap Mun, Lau Fau Shan, Cheung Chau Island, Wagland Island, Shanwei and Shang-chuan Island. They found that the average yearly wind speed is between 6-9 m/s on the height of 30m on islands. The power capacity factor of a typical modeled wind turbine reaches nearly 0.36, which is considered significant for wind power application.
'It is anticipated that the combined use of wind energy and solar photovoltaic power would become a viable source of energy for installation in buildings in both urban and rural areas,' said Dr Yang. To spearhead research in this direction, the Group has already set up hybrid solar-wind power generation systems near Shanwei and Huizhou. Extensive studies have been and are being conducted on the pilot projects.
Citing recent statistics, he added that solar photovoltaic application has been developed rapidly in Hong Kong and Guangdong region. About 1MW of photovoltaic power installation has been completed in Hong Kong since the fist such demonstration project in PolyU in 1999. The application of renewable energy in manufacturing industry are also developing fast in these areas.
Dr Yang is also a pioneer in studying the use of solar energy. Backed by Government's funding, his team has investigated the thermal and electrical behaviour of building-integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) systems and set up Hong Kong's first BIPV demonstration project in 1999. The system was installed on the rooftop of PolyU's Shaw Amenities Building, providing energy for student amenities.
Since then, Dr Yang and his team have been closely involved in the construction of many large-scale renewable energy projects, including the installation of solar-powered street lamps and rendering professional expertise for the Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden.
Earlier in October, PolyU has organized a seminar on the application of solar photovolatic technology. The seminar has attracted about 150 participants, including academics and government officials, from Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland.
