
[date]2005.01.10[/date]
[title]Nature featured new findings of PolyU's manikin expert[/title]
An award-winning manikin expert of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) has shed new light on the scientific study of body attractiveness. This result has been recently published in Nature.
According to Dr Fan Jintu, Associate Professor of ITC, body attractiveness can be measured by a new indicator known as Volume-Height Index, or VHI. The index is parsimoniously defined as calculating the body volume in cubic metres and then dividing it by the square of body height.
In his pioneering study, Dr Fan and his research team applied 3D body scanning technology to obtain 3D scanned images of some 94 male subjects, including 69 Chinese and 25 Caucasian, and measured their VHIs. A total of 43 volunteers were then asked to rate how attractive they found the body images on a scale of one to nine, and compared these ratings with other indicators such as waist-to-hip ratio or Body Mass Index (BMI).
This PolyU study concluded that VHI was best at predicting how attractively a body would be perceived. This result also re-affirmed the findings of Dr Fan's previous study on the measurement and perception of VHI for female body attractiveness.
Dr Fan is internationally renowned for inventing the world's first 'sweating' manikin. Nicknamed 'Walter', the manikin can simulate human perspiration and thus be used to test the thermal insulation and moisture vapour resistance of functional clothing.
The simulation process is also made possible with Walter's special skin, which is made of moisture-permeable fabric. In addition, Walter's motorised limbs can be moved to simulate the process of walking and help create a realistic test.
In early 2004, Dr Fan won a gold medal for this masterpiece design 'Walter' in the 32nd International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products, which was held in Geneva, the Switzerland. He has been recently awarded the Distinguished Achievement Award from the US Fiber Society.
