
[date]2005.01.04[/date]
[title]BRE Index reflects sustained momentum in property market[/title]
Following last September's optimism, public confidence on the residential market remained high in the fourth quarter of 2004, according to the latest 'BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property' (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). The momentum will continue as the real estate market is expected to improve in the new year.
BRE Index is released quarterly by PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University, Texas A&amp;M University, USA and the University of Cambridge, UK. The December survey saw a response rate of 23.45 per cent, with 1,195 respondents interviewed.
BRE Index ranges from 0 (no confidence at all) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral. The 'Overall' BRE Index in December concluded at 688, same as the one in September, indicating a sustained momentum across the residential market. Indices for 'Homeowner' (HO) and 'Non-homeowner' (NHO) groups stood at 690 and 686 respectively ' a slight change of five points up and six points down from the previous one.
Based on the same survey, respondents forecasted a moderate increase of seven per cent in housing prices in the short term and 81 per cent have not decided whether or not to buy a real property. Forty-seven per cent of HOs and 68 per cent of NHOs believed that current property prices were 'somewhat too high' or 'extremely high'. This explains in part why there is a persistent unwillingness among public to buy property in the near future, similar to prior findings.
Economic variables were cited as most important factors affecting the housing decision. Among them, 'family income' came first, followed by 'economic conditions'. An overwhelming 88 per cent of respondents considered 'family income' as 'important' or 'very important' while 75 per cent rated 'economic conditions' as 'important' or 'very important'.
About 56 per cent of HOs and 53 per cent of NHOs reckoned that the local economic conditions would be 'better' or 'much better' in three months. Despite the positive outlook, a number of uncertainty remains, including the long-awaited job growth and increase of family income. After considering the 'job prospects', 'family income' and 'economic conditions', 51 per cent of respondents considered their buying ability remained unchanged within a year.
Dr Eddie Hui, Associate Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of RCCREE, commented that the Spring of 2005 would be shaping up in light of the general positive economic views.
Prof. Francis Wong, Professor of BRE and Director of RCCREE, said: 'The BRE Index is a unique resource for predicting trends in residential prices by studying people's expectations on the forthcoming changes. In this connection, the BRE Index can be concluded as a forward-looking indicator based on the study of behavioral and attitudinal components.'
BRE Index is published quarterly by the RCCREE. Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of the BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm.
