
[date]2004.10.07[/date]
[title]PolyU inventors strike gold in China International Invention Expo[/title]
Inventors of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Invention Association Limited (HKIA) scooped 25 awards including five gold, five silver and 15 bronze medals in the Fifth China International Invention Expo held in Shanghai last month. PolyU researchers have won two gold and two bronze medals.
Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development) said the latest honours were recognition for PolyU's continuous effort in research and innovation. 'In joining hands with the HKIA, the team fully demonstrated achievement made by Hong Kong inventors and Hong Kong's potential to be an innovation and research hub.'
One of the gold medals went to researchers of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology (ABCT) who have successfully used an enzyme called beta-lactamase to detect antibiotics, such as penicillin and cephalosporin, in food and environment. By attaching an environment-sensitive fluorescent molecule to beta-lactamase, the enzyme will fluoresce when it binds a beta-lactam antibiotic.
In face of the abuse of antibiotics in drug prescription, food and environment, Dr Thomas Leung, Lecturer of ABCT and one of the Principal Investigators of the research project, said the smart technology has immense application potentials and can be used by the health authorities, food producers as well as drug manufacturers for food monitoring and drug screening. This exciting development has attracted worldwide attention and was published in the authoritative Journal of the American Chemical Society, Chemical and Engineering News and Analytical Chemistry earlier this year.
The other gold medal belonged to an invention developed by researchers of the Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Centre (REC). After years of research and clinical trial, PolyU researchers have developed an Electronic Ankle Foot Orthosis and HandEASE System, a rehabilitation device designed for the stroke patients.
Dr Raymond Tong, Assistant Professor of REC and Principal Investigator of the research project, said the invention can effectively deal with drop-foot and hand spasticity ' two common clinical problems faced by the stroke patients. By matching the patients' walking pattern, the Orthosis provide them with smooth, balanced, energy saving gait and faster walking speed. The HandEASE System helps the user to reduce spasticity and achieve simple hand motions by stimulating the thumb and pointing finger.
Two other PolyU projects were also awarded bronze medals in the Expo namely 'Environmentally-friendly Multifunctional Surface Treatment for Textiles' and 'Innovative Opto-Electronics Railway Monitoring System'.
Organized by the China Invention Association, the China International Invention Expo aims to feature research works and technological developments made by researchers around the world. This year, more than 1,100 inventions, submitted by inventors and researchers from Hong Kong and the mainland, the US, Australia, Japan, Russia and Germany, were displayed in the Expo.
