
[date]2006.08.21[/date]
[title]PolyU excels in civil engineering research[/title]
In the field of civil engineering research, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has not only put engineering knowledge to good practical uses, but has also published a large number of quality research papers in leading international journals.
Speaking at a press briefing, Vice-President (Research Development) Prof. Ko Jan-ming said the University has achieved many engineering breakthroughs in recent years. PolyU is also rendering its expertise through active participation in applied researches and major consultancy projects for the government and industry.
The University yesterday (21 August) organized a press tour to its Hydraulics Laboratory to showcase a number of major consultancy projects, including two physical models which are developed for the Government's Drainage Services Department (DSD) and the Mott Connell Co. Ltd.
Introducing these collaborations, Prof. Li Yok-sheung, Head of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, said PolyU has been working closely with DSD in developing a sophisticated physical model for an underground Stormwater Pumping Station to be built in Sheung Wan; and with Mott Connell in developing an environmentally friendly Rainwater Intake Structure for DSD.
The latter will be built along a meandering natural river on the upstream of Tso Kung Tam in Tsuen Wan. This new structure will be capable of diverting significant amount of rainwater away from the overflowed river when Black Rainstorm Warning signal is hoisted, yet remains unobtrusive to the natural flow of stream water in normal time to avoid causing any disturbance to the delicate eco-system of the river.
Dr Onyx Wai, an Associate Professor from the same department, further explained that the construction of physical model, which is a miniature of engineering structure in real-life settings, is an important stage in engineering design.
It took more than six months to construct and detail this 1:20 physical model of the river, the intake structure and the device for simulating large volume of water flow in times of rainstorm warning. With this sophisticated model, engineering experts can now study the parameters involved and meet the stringent requirements of all parties concerned.
Meanwhile, on the number of papers published in leading journals from 2003 to 2005 in the field of civil engineering, PolyU has been ranked number one in the world, according to an independent survey.
Prof. Li said the survey was conducted by Thomson Scientific, an established authority in compiling Science Citation Index. It has analyzed the total number of papers in the field of civil engineering which have been accepted for publication in reputed international journals over the three-year period.
The survey revealed that in civil engineering, PolyU is on the top of the league table, with a total of 265 publications, followed by Texas A&amp;M University (with 255 papers) and the Indian Institute of Technology (with 252 papers). 
It also examined the total number of citation in the year 2005 with reference to institutional publications between 2003 and 2004. In this particular category, PolyU is ranked second in the world with a total of 105 citations, only marginally behind the University of Illinois in the US (with 110 citations).
In counting the number of cited publications, Thomson Scientific has extracted data from 79 international journals in the field. These authoritative publications include the Journal of Hydrology, Coastal Engineering, and the Journal of Structural Engineering, to name but a few.
In Hong Kong, PolyU has been highly successful in winning Competitive Earmarked Research Grant (CERG) for the discipline of "Civil Engineering, Surveying, Building and Construction". For the six consecutive years since 2001/2002, PolyU ranked first in both the amount of grants won and the number of projects supported. In 2006/2007, PolyU has been awarded more than $17 million of CERG funding for some 37 new research projects in this particular discipline.
