
[date]2005.05.12[/date]
[title]Top international award for PolyU's energy-efficient designs[/title]
A team of experts from the Department of Electronic and Information Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has scooped three top honours in Efficiency Challenge, an international design competition jointly organized by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the California Energy Commission to promote energy-efficient power supply. These experts are Dr Martin Chow Hoi-lam, Prof. Lee Yim-shu, Mr Cheng Yiu-lam and Mr Lee Chung-ping of the Department's the Power Electronics Research Centre.
The team was crowned Grand Champion in the Open Category and Best in Class A2 (or the battery charger subcategory), for their power supply design for a "stand alone battery charger". They were also named the Best in Class B2 (or the cordless phone and battery charger subcategory), for their power supply design for a "cordless phone". The good news was announced at the Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC) 2005 held earlier on in Texas.
In recognition of their achievement, ON Semiconductor, an industry partner supporting the contest, yesterday (12 May) further awarded a cash prize of US$5,000 to the team at a special ceremony held on PolyU campus. The presentation was made by Mr Hemen Cheng, ON Semiconductor Business Director of Analog Products Group for Asia Pacific.
The team leader Dr Chow said: "We are honoured to receive the award from EPA and the California Energy Commission. Protection of the environment has always been the top priority in the research and development activities in PolyU's Power Electronics Research Centre." In particular, he accorded special thanks to ON Semiconductor for the prize and for providing key components for their project.
Mr Cheng said: "ON Semiconductor is committed to the goal of active mode efficiency improvement in power supplies used for everyday applications, and by sponsoring academic institutions including PolyU, we have provided a channel for truly innovative ideas to emerge so that the industry as a whole can benefit from them.
"With ON Semiconductor's proven leadership in helping the industry surpass the most stringent standby power requirements, we are confident that in the coming years, we will lead the way in active mode efficiency solutions as well."
Commenting on the applications of the team award-winning designs, Dr Chow said: "We seek to achieve high conversion efficiency, low interference, and minimum material wastage in the design of new products. We are working closely together with industrial partners to contribute toward building a greener world."
According to Dr Chow, the implications of improved energy efficiency are far-reaching. "By using energy-efficient products, cities and states can achieve savings in energy and money, and even help alleviate the risk of global warming," he explained.
First announced at APEC 2004, the Efficiency Challenge 2004 contest aims to showcase highly efficient technologies and foster their success in the marketplace. Entries to the Open Category and the Market Ready Category came from companies and universities in the US, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Many of the winning entries not only meet standards and requirements in the US, but go well beyond them, pointing to what is possible with high efficiency and very compact size in future power supply designs.
The secret to the team's success, according to Dr Chow, lies in an optimized selection and design of the techniques and components in their entries. These included the use of a variable off-time chip from ON Semiconductor to reduce the standby-mode power dissipation of the converter, and a well-designed flyback transformer which reduces energy loss.
The public's awareness of the importance of energy efficiency is rising as the Hong Kong Government is planning to consult public opinion on making its voluntary Energy Efficiency Labelling Scheme mandatory. In the US, the California Energy Commission passed mandatory energy efficiency standards in December 2004, and EPA estimates that efficient external power supplies alone could save the US 5 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year.
At PolyU, the Power Electronics Research Centre is jointly run by the Department of Electronic and Information Engineering and the Department of Electrical Engineering. The Centre aims to produce significant research findings that address important fundamental and practical problems in power electronics. It has an impressive research track record in the areas of computer-aided design of eco-friendly switch-mode power supplies, power factor correction, motor drives, integrated magnetic components, electromagnetic compatibility, and applications of power electronics in power system engineering.
(For details on the Centre, see: http://perc.eie.polyu.edu.hk . About the contest Efficiency Challenge, see http://www.efficientpowersupplies.org/competition.html . )
