
[date]2005.10.14[/date]
[title]PolyU and Immigration Department jointly introduce award-winning Forged Document Detector[/title]
Working in collaboration with the Government's Immigration Department, top-notch researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Industrial Centre have developed a handy Forged Document Detector (FDD) which can help law-enforcers differentiate genuine travel documents from faked ones instantaneously.
At a press briefing held yesterday (14 October) on the university campus, Ir Louis Chu Kam-piu, Acting Director of PolyU's Industrial Centre; and Mr Raymond Wong Wai-man, Assistant Director (Information Systems) of the Immigration Department jointly introduced the award-winning project. This innovative device has been recently awarded a Gold Medal at the 15th China Invention Expo, which was held last month in Beijing.
The Forged Document Detector is the fruit of hard work of a dedicated research team led by Mr Kwong Kwok-kuen and Dr Chan Tai-wai, Technology Development Manager and Engineer of the Industrial Centre, and the Immigration Department. This collaboration with the Immigration Department, according to Ir Chu, is pivotal to the success of the project since the Department is an expert in authenticating documents and is in legal procession of a rare collection of 'Confiscated Forged Documents'.
Mr Raymond Wong said, "The Forged Document Detector, a compact instrument which can be simply kept inside a briefcase, is very convenient to be carried around by law-enforcers for inspecting travel document. We have deployed the Forged Document Detector in on-site testing and are now phasing in the use of this detector at various control points in Hong Kong."
Mr Kwong further explained that the detector can cover a wide range of wavelength from ultra-violet to visible light and infra-red, making it highly flexible for customization to suit different purposes. Coupled with the advanced use of video streaming technology, the detector can facilitate continuous examination of various physical parameters and security features. It can be readily customized for the financial sector in the inspection of banknotes and alterations of signature, as well as for checking art piece forgery.
Ir Chu said the completion of this project has fully demonstrated the teamwork, expertise and dedication of his colleagues at the Industrial Centre. Since the team first received the request from the Immigration Department, they have deployed the "Expertise-on-Demand" approach to complete the project within one month and in full accordance with the Department's specifications.
"The fruit of labour is, to a large extent, a result of the passion and enthusiasm of our engineering team members who have been willing to undertake research activities on top of their teaching and training duties," he added.
