
[date]2006.05.02[/date]
[title]PolyU snaps eight top prizes in Geneva's Invention Expo[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) recently won three Gold and, three Silver Medals and, two Special Awards in the 34th International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products, which was held in early April in Geneva.It was also the third time that PolyU participated in this large-scale international event. Under the patronage of the Swiss Federal Government and the City Government of Geneva, the exhibition attracted some 1,000 inventions and 735 exhibitors from 42 countries, drawing more than 70,000 visitors from all over the world.PolyU's winning entries and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
(1) Special Prize and Gold Medal: Telemedication Management SystemPrincipal Invertigator: Prof. Thomas Wong Kwok-shing, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; Prof. Joanne Chung, School of Nursing (SN); andDr K L Fan, Scientific Officer I, SNIn developing the Telemedication Management System, eMED Administrator, PolyU researchers have taken full advantage of the RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technology to design an efficient, remote means of dispensing medication and detecting medication-taking misuse. In this system, each medication package is identified and labeled with an RFID tag and its information stored in a central telemedication database by a healthcare professional. The RFID tag allows the package to be tracked whenever it is taken out of or put into RFID-enabled medicine e-Cabinet. The tracking is stored on the database, allowing the data to be retrieved remotely in real time by a healthcare professional and caregivers for monitoring or analyzing.Apart from an user-friendly computer interface, the e-Cabinet also incorporates user-friendly visual and audible features for self-administration of medications by patients, especially the elderly or visually impaired. Other main features include standard medication procedure protocol (for reducing the chance of the patient's wrong taking of medication by mistake), contraindication of medicines alert (for preventing the patient taking out an incompatible medication from the cabinet) and interactive interface for on-the spot health check (for real-time health check and monitoring).This innovative project was also awarded a Special Prize by the Russian Ministry of Science and Education in the Exhibition.
(2) Special Prize and Gold Medal : Flexi-Wrist Fracture Balance BracePrincipal Invertigator: Dr Guo Xia, Assistant Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS); Prof. Man Hau-chung, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering; andDr Liu MQ, Postdoctoral Fellow, RSThis novel device is developed by inter-disciplinary experts of PolyU. It is designed based on the concept of splint technique in traditional Chinese medicine; and with the installation of a universal joint. This ingenious design allows greater movement of the wrist in different directions; and is considered a major improvement as compared to the rigid form of plaster cast, especially for elderly patients. This project was also awarded a Special Prize by the Iranian Government during the Exhibition.The University has licensed the production of this patented device to Guizhou Tongjitang Medicine Co. Ltd in the mainland market. The company has initially invested RMB5m for the further development and promotion of this device.
(3) Gold Medal : Self-Cleaning GarmentPrincipal Invertigator: Prof. John Xin; Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC);Dr Walid Daoud, Lecturer, ITC;Dr Yuyang Liu, Postdoctoral Fellow, ITC; and other team membersBacked by financial support from the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF), PolyU textile scientists have successfully made use of nano-technology to develop a special fabric which can be made into self-cleaning clothes. Self-cleaning garment can achieve self-cleaning function via the Lotus NanoTM surface fabrication technology and the patent pending nano photocatalysis technology. In developing the special fabric at the "Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel", Prof. John Xin and his team combined the biomimic lotus leaf nanostructure and nano titanium dioxide coating for greater effectiveness.The lotus leaf nanostructure and nano titanium dioxide coating built on fabric can defend and decompose stains, dirt, odours, bacteria, harmful gases, and highly water and oil repellent. Self-cleaning garment can effectively reduce the laundering process so as to protect the environment. The self-cleaning garment also possesses excellent UV protection property. The treatment has excellent durability towards washing and normal usage without sacrifices the soft hand and breathability of textile fabrics. The revolutionary breakthrough of the nano titanium dioxide was also reported in the internationally-renowned science magazine Nature (June 2004 issue).
(4) Silver Medal : Ferric Reducing Anti-oxidant (fRAP) AssayPrincipal Invertigator: Prof. Iris Benzie, Department of Health Technology and Informatics; andProf. Sean Strain, University of UlsterDeveloped by Prof. Iris Benzie and her co-researcher, this unique test for measuring antioxidant capacity has been employed by scientists worldwide for probing into the antioxidant and potentially anti-ageing ingredients of different foods, ranging from Lingzhi and green tea to wines and in dark chocolate. Making use of the FRAP assay and other related sophisticated testings, Prof. Benzie's research team at PolyU has also performed numerous research studies and generated a host of papers and publications on antioxidant and age-related topics over the years. The highly inter-disciplinary nature of antioxidant research has helped PolyU established an extensive research network with internationally recognised experts in human nutrition, cancer biology, DNA damage and repair, ageing, and diabetes.
(5) Silver Medal : Palmprint Security SystemPrincipal Invertigator: Prof. David Zhang Dapeng, Associate Head, Department of Computing (COMP); andDr Lu Guangming, Research Associate, COMPThe world's first Palmprint Security System is the brainchild of Prof. David Zhang and his dedicated research team. Inspired by the idea of palm-reading, he attempted to put the age-old technique to good scientific use. By identifying the unique feature of a human palm, the system can be used to meet high security requirements, such as building access control, airport check-in and ATM operations. Two US patents have already been secured for this invention. Over the years, Prof. Zhang and his team has received numerous honours for their breakthrough. These include a Silver Medal in the First Seoul International Invention Fair in 2002, a Special Gold Award presented by the Invention Promotion Association of Korea and a Gold Medal in China's National Invention Expo held in 2003.
(6) Silver Medal : "Virus Stopper" ' a Novel Protective Clothing SystemPrincipal Invertigator: Prof. Li Yi, Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC); andProf. Edward Newton, ITCThe "Virus Stopper" was developed based on the concept of systematic functional design, and with the application of nano antibacterial finished fabrics with moisture management functions and breathable waterproof fabrics. Repeated experiments have shown that this protective clothing system can provide higher protective efficiency against viral droplet aerosols; prevent the penetration of virus contaminated liquid droplets; and induce less physiological stresses.
This invention can be used as an effective personal protective equipment to reduce the risk of infection in the case of person-to-person transmission of avian flu with reduced usage cost. It is an ideal equipment for frontline healthcare workers.For more details about the International Exhibition of Inventions, please refer to its official website at URL: www.inventions-geneva.ch
