
[date]2005.03.30[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index reflects a judicious blend of optimism and caution in housing market[/title]
Following last December's optimism, public confidence in the local residential property market has continued to grow in a moderate manner, according to the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the first quarter of 2005 stood at 695, up seven points from 688 in the last survey conducted in December 2004, and climbed 139 points from 556 in the survey for the same period last year (March 2004). It was the highest score measured since the inception of the Index in December 2003.
BRE Index has been released quarterly by PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University, Texas A&amp;M University, USA and the University of Cambridge, UK. Conducted for the sixth time, the telephone survey continues to monitor the development trend of consumer confidence in the residential property market. The latest survey, conducted on 8-9 March and 11-13 March 2005, saw a response rate of 21.81 per cent, with 1,078 persons representing the target population successfully interviewed. The margin of sampling error was +/-2.98 per cent at the 95% confidence level.
According to the survey, respondents predicted that housing prices would increase marginally by 5.6 per cent (last survey: 7.1 per cent) within the next three months. Despite the positive sentiments, only a third of Homeowners (HOs) and 21 per cent of Non-homeowners (NHOs) thought that housing prices were "about right". Fifty-two per cent of HOs and 71 per cent of NHOs believed current prices were "somewhat too high" or "extremely high", indicating that housing in Hong Kong is still considered expensive to those potential homebuyers. A mere four per cent of HOs and two per cent of NHOs expressed interest to buy a real property within the next three months.
Similar to the previous findings, the three most important factors affecting housing decision were (in order of importance): household income, location and economic conditions. Furthermore, 60 per cent of HOs and 72 per cent of NHOs rated interest rate as "important" or "very important".
Ratings for Hong Kong's economic conditions have been held steady since the last survey. Fifty-two per cent of HOs and 50 per cent of NHOs reckoned that economic conditions would be "better" or "much better" in the next three months; whereas 23 per cent of HOs and 25 per cent of NHOs considered that job prospects would improve in the near future. During the course of the survey, there appeared to be no significant changes in housing price expectations among the public before and after the resignation of the former Chief Executive.
Dr. Eddie Hui, Associate Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of RCCREE, commented that there was a judicious blend of optimism and caution in the housing market. Consumers paid close attention to the possible rise in the interest rates, which might possibly damper their intention to buy in the short run.
Prof. Francis Wong, Associate Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE, said, "The BRE Index can be used as a useful indicator of forthcoming changes in housing prices. Examination of survey data from December 2003 through December 2004 suggests that there is a positive relationship between the Index and actual price changes. Overall, the public's aggregate price expectations are fairly close to price realization."
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm
