
[date]2005.02.24[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its Outstanding Student Awards to six distinguished students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits in a special ceremony held on campus yesterday (24 February).
The single top award of 'Most Outstanding PolyU Student' for 2004 went to Mr Leung Ka-kuen, a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Engineering Physics. He has also been named the Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles.
Mr Leung was the winner of the DAAD Scholarship for Working in Germany (Humboldt University in Berlin) 2004 and D.S. Chang Scholarship 2002/03, and also an active participant of the Summer Exchange Programme in the University of Science and Technology of China. Apart from his enthusiastic participation in extra-curricular activities and voluntary services, Mr Leung ranked first in class in terms of academic results, and was on the Dean's Honours List 2002/03 of the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles. The other five awardees, all full-time final year students, are:
Miss Xin Ying, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Business 
Miss Cheung Ah-yuk, Iris, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Communication 
Mr Lo Yu-tung, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use 
Mr Kwok Hiu-kam, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Engineering 
Miss Tang Ying-yung, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences 
Miss Xin Ying is a final-year student of BA (Hons) in Management at the Department of Management and Marketing. She was winner of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Scholarship 2002/03 and BOCHK Charitable Foundation Scholarship 2003/04. She has participated in the exchange programme in the US and ranked first in class over the past two years.
Miss Iris Cheung Ah-yuk is a final-year student of BA (Hons) in English Language Teaching at the Department of English. She was winner of the Sir Edward Youde Memorial Scholarship 2003/04 and was one of the Hong Kong delegates of the International Youth Exchange Programme.
Mr Lo Yu-tung is a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Surveying and Geo-Informatics at the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics. He was winner of Leica OSW Scholarship 2003/04 and was on the Dean's Honours List 2003 of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use.
Mr Kwok Hiu-kam is a final-year student of BEng (Hons) in Electrical Engineering at the Department of Electrical Engineering. He was winner of the Electrical Core &amp; Motor Manufacturing Ltd. Scholarship 2003/04 and Hongkong Electric Scholarship 2002/03. He was on the Dean's Honours List 2002/03 and 2003/04 of the Faculty of Engineering. He ranked first in class in the past two years.
Miss Tang Ying-yung is a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Optometry at the Department of Optometry and Radiography. She was winner of the 'Boston' Scholarship for Optometry Student Exchange Programme 2003/04 and participated in the Clinical Exchange Programme in Queensland University of Technology (QUT). She ranked first in class in the past three years.
Addressing the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, 'The award recipients are excellent examples of the kinds of talent that we are striving to nurture. The University commends them not only for their remarkable efforts and performance in their academic quest, but also for their strong leadership, initiative and care for society they demonstrated through their participation in extra-curricular activities and community services.'
At the ceremony, the awardees were each presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000. The names of all awardees will be inscribed on a plaque put up on PolyU campus.
PolyU's Outstanding Student Award is granted on an annual basis to full-time final-year students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits during their studies. Each academic department is allowed to nominate one candidate, who has to compete with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. Subsequently, the 'Most Outstanding PolyU Student' is selected among the six awardees from different faculties.
The selection of awardees is based on five criteria of equal weighting: academic achievement, leadership, involvement in extra-curricular activities, community service experience and exposure, and personal qualities.
