
[date]2004.09.23[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures entrepreneurial spirit of students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) honoured seven winning teams for their creative and business talent at the award presentation ceremony of the fourth PolyU-IDT Innovative Entrepreneur Contest held on campus yesterday (23 September).
This year, 35 teams comprising a total of about 90 students competed in three categories, namely, IT and Health Care, Telecommunications and Home Appliances, Toys and General. After rigorous screening, seven winning teams were selected out of those 17 teams entering the final round of competition.
The contestants were required to formulate and present their business plans which focused on innovative technology or product development, under the guidance of an academic staff for each team. All full-time PolyU students were eligible to join the contest.
PolyU Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, said, 'The University launched the contest in 2001 in an attempt to groom the business minds of PolyU students and encourage them to explore new ideas in innovation and technology.'
Mr Tzang also expressed his sincere gratitude to Dr Raymond Chan, Chairman and CEO of IDT International Limited, who has generously sponsored the contest for four consecutive years. Dr Chan, PolyU alumnus and honorary graduate, presented the awards to the winners.
This year, a total of eight awards were presented to the winning teams at the ceremony. The Diamond Award of Innovation, category winners and first runner-ups each received a plaque, a certificate of merit and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $8,000 respectively. The Diamond Award of Innovation winner was selected among the three category winners who presented their business plans in front of the judging panel before the ceremony.
The judging panel included Mr Raymond Chan, Mr Anthony Chan, Executive Vice President of Kan Hing Plastic Products Factory Limited, Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development), and Vice President (Student Development) Prof. Leung Tin-pui.
The winning entries are listed as follows:
IT and Health Care Category
Winner:
Interactive Sign Language Pass [Students: Abe Tsui Chi-Kuen, Michelle Tong Mo-yan, Bonnie Chow Wing-yin, Department of Management and Marketing (MM), Apple Wong Oi-yan, School of Design; Advisor: Dr Leslie Yip, Associate Head and Associate Professor, MM]
1st runner-up:
Skin Colour Tone Index Sensor [Students: Chan Man-chit, Department of Electrical Engineering; Wong Tang-paii, Department of Electronic and Information Engineering (EIE); Advisor: Dr Martin Chow, Senior Lecturer, EIE]
Telecommunications &amp; Home Appliances Category
Winner:
Dog House (Petmate) [Students: Christy Hui Sin-han, Ashley Ng Wai-man; Advisor: Mr Lee Tak-chi, Associate Professor, School of Design]
1st runner-up:
Flooring System [Students: Chan Kin-wai, Chung Pak-yan, Wan Pak-hong; Advisor: Mr Lee Tak-chi, Associate Professor, School of Design]
Toys &amp; General Category
Winner:
Ultrasonic and Turbulent Contact Lenses Washing Machine [Students: Crystal Ng Liu-ting, Wendy Tse Wai-man; Advisor: Prof. Yung Kai-leung, Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering]
1st runner-up:
e-Trolley [Student: Loretta Fong Hoi-ting; Advisor: Dr Cathy Wong, Assistant Professor, Department of English] 
The Little Traveller [Students: Joyce Lam Ka-wing, Chow Chiu-tung, Jamie Lau Tsun-may; Advisor: Dr Lau Kam-hing, Lecturer, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering]
The judging of presentations were based on five criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technological novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/development plan, and presentation skills.
