
[date]2005.09.30[/date]
[title]PolyU and Australian Wool Innovation enter into partnership agreement[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Australian Wool Innovation Limited (AWI), a public Australian research and development company, have entered into a major collaboration agreement to carry out applied R&amp;D projects and facilitate technology transfer to commercial partners in the wool industry.
Under this agreement, AWI will earmark a funding of about HK$11 million (or AUD$2 million) for the first year of the collaboration. The agreement was signed yesterday (30 September) by Mr Graham Stewart, General Manager of AWI, and Dr Lui Sun-wing, Vice President (Partnership Development) of PolyU. The signing ceremony, held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, was witnessed by Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Chair Professor of Textile Technology and Head of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC). Both parties agree that the sum may vary subject to the projects approved for funding.
This partnership between AWI and PolyU is also applauded by world-renowned designer and helmsman of the Cerruti family business Mr Nino Cerruti - another distinguished guest at yesterday's ceremony. During the event it was announced that Mr Cerruti would show his support by co-presenting with AWI a new AWI'Cerruti Fashion Innovation and Design Award, to be launched for fashion design students and designers from different parts of world. Mr Cerruti also visited the PolyU campus after the ceremony.
Commenting on the partnership with AWI and the new award, Dr Lui said: "Among AWI's international research partners, PolyU is indeed privileged to be the first and only Asian institution so far chosen. Mr Cerruti's warm support is another big plus to our collaboration. We gratefully appreciate their support, and are confident that together, we can innovate, achieve new breakthroughs and nurture more high-calibre designers that will benefit the industry."
AWI is already funding a PolyU research project worth over $2.8 million for the development of the NuTorqueTM wool yarn production technology. The project is led by Prof. Tao.
AWI is a public company that aims to drive research, development and innovation to increase the long-term profitability of Australian woolgrowers. It works with woolgrowers, researchers, processors and manufacturers to find smarter ways to produce wool for the world. AWI is funded by a woolgrower levy and a capped Australian government research and development contribution. Apart from PolyU, AWI's major research partners include CSIRO in Australia, Canesis in New Zealand, and Deutch Wool Research Institute in Germany.
ITC has earned a fast-growing international reputation as one of the world-class centres in the area of fashion technology. With a 100-strong research team, it is home to more than 100 cutting-edge research projects in progress. The Institute is also the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong.
