
[date]2006.01.18[/date]
[title]PolyU wins top honours for research breakthroughs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won international and national acclaim for its many applied research breakthroughs in Brussels Eureka Exhibition, which is also known as the 54th World Exhibition of Innovation, Research and New Technology, and China's 15th National Exhibition of Inventions.
This year PolyU has won one gold medal, one silver medal, two bronze medals and one special gold medal in Eureka 2005. The large-scale exhibition was held earlier in Brussels, Belgium, attracting scientists from 30 different countries and territories to show more than 700 innovations. The University also won one gold medal, two silver medals and one bronze medal in the National Exhibition of Inventions.
At a press briefing held yesterday (18 January), PolyU Vice-President (Partnership Development) Dr Lui Sun-wing and the Principal Investigators introduced their award-winning research projects. The winning entries and their respective Principal Investigators are listed and briefly described as follows:
I. Winning Entries in Brussels Eureka 2005 :
(1) Gold Medal : Nano-technology Anti-bacterial Facemasksby Prof. Li Yi, Mr. Hu Jun-yan and Ms Song Qing-wen PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing
Using nano-materials, PolyU researchers have developed a new type of facemasks to provide better protection for frontline healthcare workers as well as members of the public. Nano-treatment can be applied to the production of different models of facemasks such as N95 and surgical masks. Facemasks treated with special nano-anti-microbial materials are truly waterproof in all layers to stop the absorption and penetration of bacteria and viruses.
These facemasks can block a broad spectrum of bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus and E. Coli. Experiments proved that this kind of facemask can be worn for a longer time while carrying less odour in comparison to untreated facemask; and wearers also found the facemask more comfortable and easier to breathe through. This patented technology has been licensed to a Hong Kong-based medical products manufacturer Winner Medical &amp; Textile (HK) Ltd for producing high-quality facemasks on a massive scale.
(2) Silver Medal: Wearable Vital Sign Sensor by Dr Zheng Yongping, Prof. Arthur Mak, Mr Wang Congzhi, Dr Zhou YongjinDepartment of Health Technology and Informatics
The Vital Sign Sensor, which looks like a Bluetooth earphone, can continuously monitor key health indicators, including heart rate, motion activities, skin temperatures, etc. More importantly, the sensor could be linked to a support system to solicit help.
With its compact size, the wearable sensor is ideal for monitoring the health conditions of the elderly or any other vulnerable subjects at or outside their homes. In case of any abnormality of vital sign is detected, the system will automatically activate outgoing links to relevant parties such as medical practitioners and immediate family members
(3) Bronze Medal &amp; Special Gold Medal by the Poland Inventors Association:Online Basic Competency Assessment System by Prof. Stephen Mak, PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate
Developed and implemented for the Government by the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority, the Basic Competency Assessments (BCA) is one of the world's largest on-line educational assessment systems, which aims to facilitate learning and teaching at schools. It provides schools with an additional assessment tool to monitor students' needs and learning progress. Its features include a web-based central assessment item bank with over 5,000 items, on-line assessments, computer marking and instant reports on students' performance.
The test is now being implemented across the territory at the primary and secondary levels, covering the subjects of Chinese, English and Mathematics. It has been implemented in over 80 per cent of the primary schools and over 40 per cent of the secondary schools in Hong Kong, facilitating the learning of about 600,000 student users.
(4) Bronze Medal : A Novel Method MSCC for creating Universal Chromatographic Fingerprint by Prof. Chau Foo-tim, Prof. Liang Yizeng, Dr Li Boyan, Mr Zeng Zhongda Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology
Researchers around the world have been looking for parsimonious standards to compare and exchange chromatographic information of complex samples with minimum adjustment of sophisticated instrument. Invented by PolyU, MSCC is a novel chemometric method which can give the universal fingerprint of a mixture semi-automatically by using the same type of chromatographic instrument running under the same condition.
The fingerprint images produced by MSCC standard are more accurate than traditional methods. It is anticipated that the novel test will greatly reduce the labour, time and cost of many industrial sectors involving chemical and biological analysis. The test can be readily applied for the analysis of foods, indicators of environmental protection as well as development of drugs in the pharmaceutical industry.
(5) Bronze Medal : Non-invasive Blood Glucose Meter by Prof. Thomas Wong, Prof. Joanne Chung, Dr Fan Ka-lun, Mr Simon LamFaculty of Health and Social Sciences
With the use of near-infrared technology, PolyU researchers have developed a novel method to monitor the blood glucose level of human subjects. Unlike traditional method of collecting blood samples through syringes, this new method is non-invasive and will not cause any pain or discomfort to the subjects.
The new device work on the mechanism of identifying and reducing the number of essential wavelengths required. This can help to reduce the size and cost of corresponding hardware device and facilitate portable and continuous monitoring of blood glucose level. This method is ideal for diabetic patients who need to check their blood glucose level frequently. Its use can be further extended to the monitoring of other blood substrates such as cholesterol and lactic acid.
II. Winning Entries in 15th China National Exhibition of Inventions :
(1) Gold Medal : Forged Document Detector (FDD)by Mr Kwong Kwok-kuen and Dr Chan Tai-wai, Technology Development Manager and Engineer of PolyU's Industrial Centre, and the Immigration Department
The Forged Document Detector can help law-enforcers differentiate genuine travel documents from faked ones instantaneously. This handy and compact instrument can be simply kept inside a suitcase and carried around by law-enforcers for inspecting travel document. The Immigration Department has deployed it in on-site testing and is now phasing in the use of this new detector at various control points.
The sophisticated device covers a wide range of wavelength from ultra-violet to visible light and infra-red, making it highly flexible for customization to suit different purposes. It can be readily customized for the financial sector in the inspection of banknotes and alterations of signature, as well as for checking art piece forgery.
(2) Silver Medal : Advanced Composite Materials for Integrated Circuit and Microelectronics Wire-bonders by Prof. Helen Chan, Prof. C. L. Choy and Dr Or Siu-wing Department of Applied Physics
Using advanced ceramic/polymer composites, Prof. Chan and her team have greatly enhanced the performance of ultrasonic transducers for wire-bonding machines. Specifically, it can decrease the width of the bonds and stabilizes the machine operation. The use of such materials can increase bonding performance by 30 per cent and thereby contributing to more efficient packaging of integrated circuits.
Over the years, Prof. Chan and her co-researcher Prof. Choy Chung-loong have won numerous honours. In 2002, the distinguished pair received the State Technological Invention Award (2nd Class Prize), and they are the first local scientists who ever received this state award. They also won a Gold Award in the Seoul International Invention Fair which was held in 2002.
(3) Silver Medal : Smart Vibration Damping System for Intelligent Vibration Control of Civil and Mechanical Structures by Dr Or Siu-wing, Assistant Professor, Department of Applied Physics Dr Ni Yiqing and Dr Duan Yuanfeng, Associate Professor and Research Associate, Department of Civil and Structural Engineering
This novel system consists of smart vibration sensori-dampers interfaced with intelligent control electronics. It can substantially improve the safety of structures by reducing vibrations, vibration-induced structural failures as well as structural-born noises. The compact system provides a simple, cost-effective and reliable means for implementing real-time, closed-loop vibration control. It was developed by an inter-disciplinary research team comprises members from PolyU's Departments of Applied Physics and Civil and Structural Engineering.
This sophisticated vibration control system has been put to good uses in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. It was employed in the vibration isolation of semiconductor manufacturing equipment in Hong Kong and is being deployed in the vibration damping of the cable-stayed Dongting Lake Bridge in China. In addition, it can increase human comforts by mitigating vibrations associated with automotive seats and enhance performance of precision machines and apparatuses.
(4) Bronze Medal : Comshell Roof by Prof. Teng Jin-guang, Associate Dean, Faculty of Construction and Land Use
The Comshell roof is a new, economic structural system made of sheet steel and concrete for enclosing large spaces. It is formed by pouring concrete on a thin stiffened steel base shell which serves as both the permanent formwork and the tensile steel reinforcement. The steel base shell is constructed by bolting together cold-formed steel modular units in the form of a shallow open-topped box. It retains all the benefits of thin concrete shell roofs, but eliminates the need for temporary formwork in construction and hence minimizes the cost.
With its good thermal and sound insulation properties, the Comshell roof provides an economic alternative to existing large-span structural systems. It can be easily constructed within a short period of time, and in so doing achieve substantial cost savings. This new technology has been granted with a patent in China.
