
[date]2004.11.19[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosted the presentation ceremony for the 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement 2003/04' on campus yesterday (19 November) to pay tribute to staff members for their outstanding performance.
During the ceremony, apart from the 'President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement', the 'Faculty Awards for Outstanding Performance/ Achievement' and 'Outstanding Performance/ Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff' were also presented. The award winners, including academic, administrative and general grade staff, were honoured under four categories: Teaching, Research and Scholarly Activities, Services, and Overall Contribution. The awards were presented by PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong and the Faculty Deans.
Since its introduction in 1996, the award scheme has become an important channel for the University to show appreciation to staff members and motivate them to excel in their work performance. This is the second year that the Award Scheme was re-structured to a two-tier system to give recognition to a wider representation of staff members. A total of 30 staff members were honoured, including those who received the individual and team awards.
Under the system, all nominations were first submitted to the selection panels of the Faculty Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The best among the awardees were then shortlisted and recommended for the President's Awards. As a result, among the thirteen individuals and four teams selected in the first tier, five individuals were chosen as the final winners for the President's Awards. They are:
Teaching: 
Dr Jenny C.C. Chung - Assistant Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences
Research and Scholarly Activities:
Prof. Qi Li-qun - Professor, Department of Applied Mathematics 
Prof. C.H. Woo - Chair Professor, Department of Electronic and Information Engineering 
Dr He Ju-fang - Associate Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences
Overall Contribution:
Ms Daisy Yue - Assistant Manager, Partnership Development Office
Dr Jenny C.C. Chung has been proactive in pursuing innovative teaching methodologies since joining the University in 1994. She has adopted innovative approaches such as Problem-based Learning and Experiential Learning in her teaching. She was awarded the departmental outstanding teaching award in 2002.
Prof. Qi Li-qun joined the University in 1999. A Tsinghua graduate in Computational Mathematics in the 60's, Prof. Qi is an all-round mathematician with special interest in generalized Newton methods. In 2003, he was named as one of the most influential mathematicians in the world during the period 1981-1999, by the authoritative citation database ISIHighlyCited.com. He was also selected as a foreign Member of the Petrovskaya Academy of Science and Arts in Russia in the same year.
Prof. C.H. Woo joined the University in 1996. He is an internationally renowned scholar known for his work in solid-state materials. He has secured a total of six Competitive Earmarked Research Grants as Principal Investigator during the eight years since joining PolyU. He has made remarkable contributions to the research work in the areas of materials modeling, smart materials, corrosion and surface technology.
Dr He Ju-fang joined the University in 1998. He has taken an inter-disciplinary approach by bringing his knowledge and skills in physiology, anatomy, modeling and engineering together. A great example is his development of the 'Electronic Bat Ears' which aims to help the visually impaired.
Ms Daisy Yue joined the University in 2000. Over the past years, she has successfully completed many major tasks including the early work in the formation of PolyU Enterprises Ltd. Her marketing efforts have helped the Institute of Enterprise to reach out to the business community.
