
[date]2005.05.17[/date]
[title]PolyU wins invention awards in Geneva[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has won one Special Gold, two Gold and three Silver Awards in the 33rd International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products, which was held earlier on in Geneva. Among the inventions, the project on the assessment of learning developed with the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority has won a Silver Award and a Special Appreciation Award.
It was the second time that PolyU participated in this large-scale international event. Under the patronage of the Swiss Federal Government and the City Government of Geneva, the exhibition has put together some 1,000 inventions and 675 exhibitors from 42 countries, drawing over 70,000 visitors from all over the world.
The winning entries presented by PolyU and their respective Principal Investigators and researchers are listed and briefly described as follows:
I. Special Gold &amp; Gold Award:
(1) Arginine depletion with pegylated recombinant human arginase as a novel method in the treatment of liver cancerResearchers: Dr Thomas Leung Yun-chung, Lecturer; Dr Thomas Lo Wai-hung, Lecturer; and Dr Paul Cheng Ning-men, Adjunct Associate Professor, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology
The new drug works on the mechanism of arginine depletion for the treatment of liver cancer. Its main constituent is arginase, an enzyme that degrades arginine, with urea as an end-product. However, naturally occurring arginase has a very short half-life and thus cannot be used for therapeutic purpose. Using state-of-the-art DNA technology, PolyU researchers have produced a human recombinant arginase that has significantly prolonged its half-life for therapeutic use. The new drug will be put to formal clinical trials at the Queen Mary Hospital and recruitment of patients will start in mid-2005. This is the first drug developed in Hong Kong that has been able to come to the stage of clinical trial. It is regarded as a cornerstone in the development of bio-technology.
II. Gold Award:
(2) iScream - Intelligent systems for construction and real estate asset managementResearchers: Dr Stephen Mak, Associate Professor; and Mr Lennon Choy, Lecturer, Department of Building and Real Estate
iScream is an on-line intelligent system tailor-made for streamlining the business operations of the construction and real estate industry. Its core part is a multi-hierarchical matrix database system which integrates technological and knowledge management applications, including a fully automatic asset portfolio valuation module and a wireless hyper-broadband multimedia streaming and storage module.
III. Silver Award:
(3) Electronic bat earsResearchers: Dr He Jufang, Associate Professor; Mr Pan Guohua, Research Fellow; and Prof. Chetwyn Chan; Professor; Mr He Junfeng, Research Assistant, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences
Bats can survive in the dark with their ultrasound sensitive ears assimilating radar, ultrasound measurement and search techniques. 'Bat ears' is a new echo-location device which employs the unique characteristic of ultrasound. Its bouncing signal will be translated into a low frequency sound which a normal person can hear. PolyU researchers aim to help the visually-impaired with this new navigation system and device.
(4) Assessment for learning ' territory-wide implementation of Basic Competency Assessments in Hong KongDeveloped by: Mr K.N. Tsang, Head, Web-based Services Division, Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority (HKEAA); and Dr Stephen Mak, Associate Professor, Department of Building and Real Estate
Developed and implemented for the Government by the HKEAA, the Basic Competency Assessments (BCA) is one of the world's largest on-line educational assessment systems, which aims to facilitate learning and teaching at schools. It provides schools with an additional assessment tool to monitor students' needs and learning progress. Its features include a web-based central assessment item bank with over 5,000 items, on-line assessments, computer marking and instant reports on students' performance. It will be implemented across the territory at the primary and secondary levels, covering the subjects of Chinese, English and Mathematics. The BCA has been implemented in over 80% of the primary schools and over 40% of the secondary schools in Hong Kong, facilitating the learning of about 600,000 student users. This project has also won a Special Appreciation Award in the event.
(5) Logimizer™ ' an integrated logistics management and optimization system for air freight and forwarding industryResearchers: Dr Henry Lau, Associate Professor; Dr Tommy Choy, Assistant Professor; and Mr W.T. Tsui, Project Associate, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
The system aims at enhancing the airfreight forwarding operations through the process of interactive optimization. It allows airfreight forwarding companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises to maximise space utilisation when handling large numbers of cargoes to be delivered in a single shipment. Logimizer™ has an embedded innovative technology called 'Heuristics Iterative Reasoning Technology' for continually refining the correct mix of cargoes with appropriate containers, taking into consideration of the different shapes, sizes and weights of the cargoes.
Last year, PolyU won two Gold and three Silver Awards in this large-scale international event.
