
[date]2005.05.09[/date]
[title]Novel treatment for Liver Cancer gains international recognition[/title]
Researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have successfully developed a new drug for liver cancer. This breakthrough has not only won a Special Gold Award in the 33rd International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products of Geneva, but also gives a ray of hope for liver cancer patients.
Speaking at the press briefing, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said this is the first drug developed in Hong Kong that has been able to come to the stage of clinical trial. This achievement is hailed as an important milestone in the development of bio-technology and pharmaceutical industry in Hong Kong.
Developed by Dr Thomas Leung Yun-chung, Dr Thomas Lo Wai-hung and Dr Paul Cheng Ning-man of PolyU's Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, the new drug works on the mechanism of arginine depletion for the treatment of liver cancer, or hepatocellular carcinoma.
Citing recent statistics, the researchers said liver cancer is one of the five most common human cancers worldwide. It is also the second leading cause of cancer death in Hong Kong. About 1,500 new patients are identified every year. Statistics from the Department of Health showed that 1,412 patients died of liver cancer in 2003.
Of those patients with newly diagnosed liver cancer, nearly 40 per cent of them are in critical condition with locally advanced or metastatic disease. Currently there is no systematic chemotherapy or traditional treatment found effective for such group of patients. Their median survival time is only less than six months.
However, latest research findings proved that the complete depletion of circulation arginine is effective in inhibiting the proliferation of liver cancer tumor. Pre-clinical studies conducted on the use of this drug in monkeys, which are primates closest to human being, showed that the drug was effective in depleting the arginine level without any observed side effects.
The main constituent of this new drug is arginase, an enzyme that degrades arginine, with urea as an end-product. However, naturally occurring arginase has a very short half-life and thus cannot be used for therapeutic purpose. Using state-of-the-art DNA technology, PolyU researchers have produced a human recombinant arginase that has as significantly prolonged half-life for therapeutic use.
The video interview of a liver cancer patient, who is showing signs of improvement after treatment by the new drug, was shown during yesterday's (9 May) briefing.
The drug development project was kicked off in 2001 with initial support from the Government's Innovation and Technology Fund. Over the years, it has received more than $8 million funding support from the Government and industry.
With the support of the University of Hong Kong's (HKU) Faculty of Medicine and its Centre for the Study of Liver Diseases, the new drug will be put to formal clinical trials at the Queen Mary Hospital. Recruitment of patients will start in mid-2005. HKU's Centre for the Study of Liver Diseases also participated in repeated animal studies to confirm the efficacy of this new drug on mice.
It is the second time that PolyU participated in the International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products of Geneva. Last year PolyU won two Gold Medals and three Silver Medals in this large-scale international event. The University will hold another press briefing to introduce its award-winning projects on 17 May.
