
[date]2005.05.19[/date]
[title]PolyU sets the trend in anti-counterfeiting RFID technology[/title]
Using advanced Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology, researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) have developed a high security anti-counterfeiting system for use with premium fashion products and accessories.
Headed by Dr Allan Chan Chee-kooi, Associate Professor of ITC, the research team has achieved high security level for this anti-counterfeiting system by developing encryption on up to 96-bit computing platform. This is considered a major breakthrough because common RFID systems, which are mostly used in the logistics industry, are still run on 64-bit platform.
In designing the system, Dr Chan and his colleagues Dr Patrick Hui and Mr Kirk Wong have made use of a 'smart chip' embedded in a RFID tag with the size of a laser printing label. Although the tag only measures 0.25 square mm. in size, it contains tiny antenna to transmit and receive useful data such as product codes and IP owner identification and information.
With its small size, the RFID tag can be built in with premium products such as handbags, wallets, shoes and haute couture during the manufacturing process. The system is ideal for those who are concerned with the protection of intellectual property, especially for brand owners, industry distributors and retailers.
Not only can the system protects intellectual property, but also guarantees peace of mind for customers who are concerned with the genunity of their purchases. Using the system, IP owners as well as law enforcers can authenticate their products. Even if the tag is copied or compromised, faked goods can still be detected.
Moreover, this compact RFID authentication system can be easily installed in distribution outlets and retail stores. With its user-friendly GUI (graphical user interface), IP owners can easily use the system as a checkpoint for authenticity.
The University has made great strides on the use of RFID technology on different fronts. Earlier on, its School of Nursing has also developed a RFID system to check whether medical personnel have completed the important routine of hand-washing before approaching the bed of individual patient.
