
[date]2005.06.29[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index reflects that public confidence in property market remains positive despite recent increases in interest rates[/title]
According to the latest 'BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property' (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), public confidence in the residential property market has continued to grow since its March 2005 survey, but expected housing price increases have become very moderate.
Despite recent increases in interest rates in the US and Hong Kong, the impact on housing price expectations in Hong Kong is somewhat insignificant. While it is very likely that the influence will remain, there are concerns about the marked increase in speculative activity. The findings also show that the marginal rise in confidence is consistent with the improving economic conditions.
Ranging from 0 (no confidence) to 1,000 (complete confidence) with 500 being neutral, the BRE Index for the second quarter of 2005 stood at 708, up 13 points from 695 in the March survey. The latest survey, conducted from 6 to 10 June 2005, saw a response rate of 15 percent, with 1,120 interviews completed. The maximum margin of sample error was +/-2.93 percent at the 95 percent confidence level.
According to the survey, overall, Homeowners (HOs) predicted that housing prices would increase by a mere 1.7 percent in the next three months, while Non-homeowners (NHOs) predicted a 4.4 percent increase. Thirty-five percent of HOs and 23 percent of NHOs thought that housing prices were 'about right'. In contrast, 56 percent of HOs (last survey: 52 percent) and 70 percent of NHOs (last survey: 71 percent) considered current prices were 'somewhat too high' or 'extremely high'. Partly as a result, the short-term incentive to buy does not seem to be particularly high. Only four percent of HOs (last survey: 4 percent) and 0.5 percent of NHOs (last survey: 2 percent) planned to buy a real property in the next three months.
The local economy is expected to improve further. This factor plays an important role in affecting the public's confidence over the market. Fifty-two percent of HOs (last survey: 52 percent) and 48 percent of NHOs (last survey: 50 percent) reckoned that economic conditions would be 'better' or 'much better' in the next three months. Similar to the past findings, the three most important factors affecting their housing decision were, in order of importance: family income, economic conditions and location, followed by interest rate.
The market sentiment has increasingly hinged on the likely future trends in interest rates. Sixty-five percent of HOs (last survey: 60 percent) and 73 percent of NHOs (last survey: 72 percent) rated interest rate as 'important' or 'very important'. When asked about the most recent interest rate hikes, half of HOs and 40 percent of NHOs considered the impact so far being 'insignificant' on their price expectations.
Prof. Eddie Hui, Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) and Deputy Director of PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE), commented that, fuelled by the relatively low real interest rates and improving economic conditions, the outlook of housing market appeared positive. However, the movements in housing prices would be determined largely by the interest rate trend.
Prof. Francis Wong, Associate Head of BRE and Director of RCCREE added, 'The deflation cycle of the past six years has come to an end. Unemployment rate declined to 5.9 percent in April 2005, a record low since late 2001. Unless interest rate increases are far beyond peoples' expectations, the residential market will remain stable in the foreseeable future.'
Since its inception in December 2003, the BRE Index has been released quarterly by RCCREE in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University, Texas A&amp;M University, USA and the University of Cambridge, UK. Conducted for the seventh time, the telephone survey continues to monitor the development trend of consumer confidence in the residential property market.
Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm. Detailed results of BRE Index surveys are also available at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/research/bre_index/index.htm
