
[date]2006.05.17[/date]
[title]PolyU scholar named world's top 40 influential designers[/title]
Prof. Lorraine Justice, an internationally renowned designer who now takes the helm at the School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, has been recently chosen one of the world's top 40 influential designers by the authoritative ID magazine in the US.
ID magazine (Jan/Feb 2006 issue) praised her for "raising standards" for both design education and the industry. The magazine described her approach as "holistic, focusing on concepts such as sustainability and instilling values about design's impact on how we live".
Delighted with this honour, Prof. Justice said : "It is great to be recognized in this way. Designers still believe they can change the world for the better and have the tools to do it. Keeping your ideals and values makes it very easy to go to work every day. My work has  become an act of service to students, creative people, businesses and governments."
Prof. Justice has served in higher education for the past 20 years, in the areas of design research, product design and computer interface design. Prior to joining PolyU, she was Director of the Industrial Design Program in the College of Architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology in the US.  She joined PolyU as Swire Chair Professor and Head of School of Design in 2004.
In her illustrious career, she has received numerous honours. She was awarded a National Endowment for the Arts grant on the integration of technology and design in 1995, a SIGGRAPH Educator's Grant, and a team Smithsonian Award in Education for the "Mission to Mars" exhibition developed in cooperation with the US National Science Foundation and Apple Computer. 
Currently she is a Fellow of the Industrial Design Society of America (IDSA).  A seasoned designer with strong links to industry, she was involved in providing design consultancy for many major corporations such as Apple, CompuServe, Chemical Abstracts, CheckFree, Hedworth, Microsoft, NCR, and Lutron.
She was also responsible for co-organizing the First China-USA Industrial Design Conference in Beijing in 2003, and the first Doctoral Education in Design Conference in Ohio in 1999, both being well-attended international events.
She also serves on the advisory board of two international design journals, Design Issues, Design Studies and The Design Journal, as well as jurist and reviewer for international conferences. She has twice served on the Business Week/IDSA IDEA jury for best products.
