
[date]2005.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU studies find the PRE seafood contained elevated concentrations of heavy metals[/title]
In analyzing samples of common seafood collected from the Pearl River Estuary (PRE), researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry under the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) found relatively high concentrations of the heavy metal cadmium in crab, shrimp, shellfish, and above average level of lead in fish samples.The study was jointly funded by the Hong Kong Research Grants Council, the University Grants Committee's Area of Excellence Scheme and the CAS. The field sampling and laboratory analysis were completed with the assistance of the CAS South China Sea Institute of Oceanology. Dr Li Xiangdong and Miss Carman Ip, Associate Professor and Research Associate of PolyU's Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, analyzed the heavy metal concentration of aquatic organisms in collaboration with Dr. Zhang Gan of the Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry.With an aim to study the accumulation and potential sources of trace metals in marine species of the PRE, PolyU researchers have collected four groups of aquatic organisms, including common fish, crab, shrimp and shellfish at seven sites for metal analysis. Common species of seafood were included in this study to examine the general situation of trace metal contamination in the region.Dr Li and his colleagues found that in general, the average concentrations of trace metals in marine lives in the PRE were higher than the reported values in other parts of China. In addition, the concentrations of trace metals in the present study were higher than those in previous studies of the same region.
Among the four groups of marine species, the concentration of cadmium in shrimp were the highest; while the mean and median concentrations of cadmium in crab, shrimp and shellfish have exceeded the threshold values recommended by China's assessment guidelines for food (0.05 mg/kg, wet weight).
In addition, the mean concentrations of lead in fish (2.2 mg/kg) also exceeded the China's assessment guidelines (1.0 mg/kg), while the median concentration of lead in fish was below the guidelines (0.41 mg/kg). According to the researchers, this result means that a small number of fish samples have accumulated high concentration of lead in their bodies.
Dr Li added that some trace metals such as zinc and copper are essential trace elements for the growth of marine lives; and low concentration of cobalt, nickel and vanadium does no harm for human consumption. However, cadmium and lead are non-essential trace elements and may be toxic even at low concentrations.
He said the high concentration of lead indicated that the bioaccumulation of this heavy metal in fish come from a wide variety of food sources and/or exposure pathways, particularly from anthropogenic sources.
The full report of this study has been published in a leading international journal Environmental Pollution (Dec 2005 issue).
