
[date]2006.01.20[/date]
[title]PolyU and CAS's Academy of Mathematics and System Sciences co-found the Joint Research Institute[/title]
To further promote research collaboration and technical exchange on engineering and management mathematics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University(PolyU) and the Academy of Mathematics and System Sciences (AMSS) under the aegis of Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) have jointly established the Joint Research Institute(JRI).
The inauguration ceremony of the Institute, held yesterday (20 January) on campus, was officiated at by Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, PolyU President, Prof. C.T. Kelley, Vice-President of Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Prof. Yuan Ya-xiang, Director of JRI and Vice-President of AMSS, CAS and Prof. Qi Liqun, Director of JRI and Professor, Department of Applied Mathematics, PolyU.
Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Poon said, "As a leading application-oriented university, PolyU is fully committed to promoting research and technology development for the betterment of our society. PolyU is most privileged to have the opportunity to team up with AMSS in fostering technical exchange and research cooperation between Hong Kong and the Chinese Mainland."
The AMSS under the aegis of CAS is the most important research institution of mathematics and system sciences in China. Its vast pool of expertise includes 15 member of CAS, two members of Chinese Academy of Engineering(CAE) and a number of leading mathematicians in the Chinese Mainland. By leveraging on the strengths of both parties, the Joint Research Institute will mark a positive step for extending the knowledge frontiers in engineering and management mathematics.
Jointly headed by Prof. Yuan and Prof. Qi and backed by the support of close to 40 researchers and advisors, the Institute will seek to advance the development of integrated solutions on engineering and management mathematics by embarking joint research projects and lecture series. Initially, JRI will undertake several research projects which will be reviewed after two years before new research direction is planned subsequently.
