
[date]2004.10.08[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE Index for September reaches new high[/title]
The public's confidence in local residential market has continued to grow over the last six months and reached new high in September, according to the latest "BRE Confidence Index for Residential Property" (BRE Index) released by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
BRE Index is established by PolyU's Research Centre for Construction and Real Estate Economics (RCCREE) in collaboration with the Hong Kong Baptist University, the Texas A&amp;M University of the US and the University of Cambridge of the UK. The September survey saw a response rate of 20.48 per cent, with 893 respondents successfully interviewed.
BRE Index ranges from 0 (no confidence at all) to 1,000 (complete confidence), with 500 as neutral. According to the latest survey, the "Overall" BRE Index stood at 688, 85 points up from 603 in the last survey conducted in June 2004, indicating a positive outlook for the residential property market. Indices for "Homeowner" (HO) and "Non-homeowner" (NHO) groups stood at 685 and 692 - 66 points and 105 points higher than the previous one respectively. These figures reach new high since the commencement of the survey.
Dr Eddie Hui, Principal Investigator and Associate Professor of the Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) commented that NHOs' confidence level has started to overtake the HOs'. "Despite the consumers' confidence in the housing market has grown significantly, their buying ability remains the same in the short run."
Findings show that respondents predicted a marginal increase of six per cent in housing prices in the short term. Forty-eight per cent of HOs and 66 per cent of NHOs believed the current prices were "somewhat too high" or "extremely high". Seventy-three per cent had not decided whether or not to buy a property.
Family income and local economic conditions were cited the most important factors in affecting the buying decision. In spite of the positive economic outlook, a majority of respondents predicted that their job prospects and family income would not improve in the short term. After considering the job prospects, family income and economic conditions, only 15 percent of respondents considered their buying ability would get better within a year. Dr Hui added that these rational real estate fundamentals explained in part why people's incentive to buy was not strong.
The survey also reveals that the current interest of the developers in government land sale is not a major factor in affecting public's decision in property purchase. Only 39 percent of HOs and 49 percent of NHOs believed that the developers' interest had changed their housing price expectations.
Prof. Francis Wong, Director of RCCREE and Associate Head of BRE, said: "The BRE Index is a unique resource for studying trends in housing prices and the level of public confidence in the residential market. It is a good behavioral and attitudinal indicator of the potential consumers".
BRE Index will be released quarterly by the RCCREE. Established in 2000, the RCCREE aims to promote solution-oriented research and consultancy for economic issues relating to construction and real estate. Currently there are about 20 members in the Centre, comprising surveyors, lawyers, architects, engineers, town planners and builders. For more information about the RCCREE, please visit its website at http://www.bre.polyu.edu.hk/rccree/index.htm.
