
[date]2003.12.22[/date]
[title]PolyU releases study on occupational health[/title]
According to the findings of a research undertaken by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, office workers suffering from neck and shoulder pain demonstrate less efficient control of their muscle activities and motor coordination of keyboard operation when working under stress. These risk factors may attribute to the work-related muscle strain and discomfort.
With her insightful findings in this PhD research paper sponsored by the Occupational Safety and Health Council, the Principal Investigator Dr Grace Szeto Pui-yuk has won the Ergonomics Society of Australia's 2003 David Ferguson Award for the Best Postgraduate Thesis.
Spanned over two-and-a-half years and supported by a research grant from the Occupational Safety and Health Council, the study involved some 83 female office workers aged between 20 and 50, and using computers for at least four hours during a working day. Among the subjects, 43 were suffering from neck and shoulder pain.
In the first part of this study, symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects were both asked to perform one hour of typing task to compare the effect of sustained static posture in using computers. The study found that symptomatic subjects were more inclined to have a forward leaning posture in their necks and exercised poorer muscle control; and these factors were closely related to their neck and shoulder discomforts.
The second part of this study was designed to compare the keystroke dynamics and muscle activities of subjects working under stress. It was revealed that symptomatic subjects would increase the speed and force of keystroke at the same time, while exercising mal-adaptive and inefficient control of their muscle activities.
Since all subjects were given the same constraint in the research environment, the study has also affirmed that human reaction to work pressure is influenced by both physiological and psychological factors. Further research is required to explore the intrinsic differences among individuals that lead to their different reactions to work stresses.
Commenting on the research findings, Dr Szeto said: "Apart from static posture, the speed and force of keystroke are also considered important risk factors for occupational injury; because increasing speed would require better eye-hand co-ordination, which led to more activities and tension of certain muscle groups."
She elaborated that under real-life work settings, office workers may be asked to increase their speed to meet deadlines. This factor will very likely prone them to aim for a speed higher than normal, and the study has truly reflected the detrimental effect of increasing keystroke speed on muscle strain and discomfort.
She also advised computer users to adopt more upright posture, keep their minds and their muscles relaxed, and exercise appropriate control on the force and speed of keystroke actions. Otherwise, the tension created in muscles would lead to cumulated strain and greater discomfort.
In 2001, a study of the Occupational Safety and Health Council revealed that more than 72 per cent of local office workers were using computers for four hours or more; while more than 15 per cent of them were even using computers for more than eight hours a day. The widespread and prolonged use of computers has led to rising prevalence rates in work-related neck and upper limb disorders.
