
[date]2003.12.03[/date]
[title]PolyU researchers take National Inventions Exhibition by storm[/title]
With their innovative inventions, researchers at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) won four awards, admidst fierce competition from 36 provinces and cities, in the 14th National Inventions Exhibition of China recently held in Xiamen. The awards included a Special Gold Award, two Gold Medals and a Silver Medal.
The Exhibition is a major biennial event organized by the State Intellectual Property Office, Ministry of Science and Technology and China Association of Invention. It aims to promote the development of innovative technologies and provide a platform for potential partners to explore business opportunities. This year, the event was sponsored by Xiamen Municipal Government, and over 1,000 inventions were exhibited.
Dr Lui Sun-wing, PolyU Vice President (Partnership Development), said, 'Apart from bringing accolade to the University, the winning of the awards further attests the application value of our researches, and signifies recognition of our innovations by the community at large."
PolyU's Palmprint Identification System won the Gold Medal. This invention also won the Special Gold Award presented by the Invention Promotion Association of Korea, which had selected only 13 out of 1,000 exhibits for this distinguished award. This innovative system is developed by Prof. David Zhang Dapeng, Associate Head of the Department of Computing, and his team members. By identifying the unique feature of a human palm, the system can be used to meet high security requirements, such as building access control, airport check-in and ATM operations. The new system also grabbed a Silver Medal in the First Seoul International Invention Fair last year. Two US patents have already been secured for this invention.
Another Gold Medal went to PolyU's textile scientists who invented the world's first Artificial Intelligence-enabled fabric evaluation machine "FabricEye".  This innovation is a breakthrough for the textile industry. It is able to capture the surface image and grade the fabric in a more reliable and cost-effective way, replacing traditional manual inspection. Headed by Prof. Edward Newton and Dr Hu Jinlian, Visiting Chair Professor and Associate Professor of the University's Institute of Textiles and Clothing, the research team has already secured two US patents and a trade mark for their innovation.
A Silver Medal was presented to scientists of the University's Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology for their research on Novel Chemical Resolution Method (CRM). Invented by Prof. Chau Foo-tim, Professor, and Dr Daniel Mok Kam-wah, Research Fellow, CRM is a new fingerprinting technology for analysis of the chemical composition and marker components of traditional Chinese medicine and other herbal formulations. It enables researchers and scientists to identify key ingredients in complex compounds more easily and quickly.
