
[date]2003.05.20[/date]
[title]Over 22 million ITF fund injected for PolyU textiles and apparel research projects[/title]
Two PolyU research projects, focusing on the applications of nanotechnology and the development of smart textile have been supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) of the Hong Kong Government with a total sum of HK$22.7 million.
The two sponsored projects, namely "Nanotechnology Centre for Functional and Intelligent Textiles and Apparel" and "Smart Textile Development: Shape Memory Fabrics/ Garment" are the latest efforts made by researchers of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) with an objective of furthering the development of advanced materials and innovative technology.
A key mission of the "Nanotechnology Centre" project is to set up a dedicated centre to consolidate research efforts in the applications of nanotechnology. Three research areas have been identified for this project, including development of a nano-structured surface polymerization system for multi-functional finishing, textile sensors and electrical apparel, and nano-structured photonic fabrics.
The nano-structured surface polymerization system is a new finishing technology that manufactures materials with multiple functions like UV block, anti-bacteria, water and oil repellence, controlled release of anti-bacteria or other active agents. The textile sensors and electrical apparel are smart wear that can sense changes in the environment including temperature, humidity, heart beat, respiration rate, posture and body movement. The exciting nano-structured photonic fabrics are intelligent materials that can display moving pictures, thus setting trend for fashion in the future.
This innovative project has been awarded an ITF fund of $14.7 million for a period of three years. The same project has successfully won sponsorship from the trade including Artex Fashion (Asia) Ltd, Bondex International (HK) Ltd, Cha Textiles Ltd, Glorious Sun Holdings Ltd, Link Dyeing Works Ltd, Sunikorn Knitters Ltd and Wah Tai Piece Goods Ltd.
Jointly run by ITC and the departments of Applied Physics, Applied Biology and Chemical Technology and Electronic and Information Engineering, the Centre is run under the directorship of Prof. Philip Yeung, Vice President (Academic Development). The project team has also invited Prof. Choy Chung-lung, Dean of Faculty of Applied Science &amp; Textiles and Prof. Edward Newton, Head of ITC as Centre Advisors, Prof. Tao Xiaoming, Associate Head of ITC, as Principal Investigator and Coordinator and Dr John Xin, Associate Professor of ITC as Deputy Coordinator.
Another ITC project is made possible after five years of research on synthesis, characterization and modeling of various shape memory polymers such as Polyurethane, PNIPAM and Polynorbornene. Project researchers are working on a smart textile which has shape memory ability through foam, spray and other finishing processes.
Such shape memory ability allows the smart textile to stand high pressure creases and be able to recover to the original shape at certain hot setting. The project will also impart additional benefits to the textile such as wrinkle-free, shrinkage resistance, colourfastness, high strength and chemical resistance.
Led by Dr Hu Jinlian, Associate Professor of ITC and a recipient of the Award for Distinguished Achievement in Fiber Science from the US-based Fiber Society in 2001, this project has been granted an ITF fund of $8 million for a period of two years. Private sponsorship has also been received from leading companies like Bondex International (Hong Kong) Ltd, Hong Kong Hi-Tec Enterprises Ltd, Lai Tak Holdings Ltd and TAL Apparel Ltd.
Since last September, four ITC projects - including these two projects - have been awarded funding support from ITF, amounting to an accumulative fund of HK$33.4million.
