
[date]2010.03.15[/date]
[title]PolyU alumnus gives $30m to support alma mater[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (15 March) received a generous donation of $30 million from its alumnus Mr Yau Wah-yau, founder and Managing Director of Realink Group in support of the University's long-term development. The substantial donation from Mr Yau, together with the matching grant from the Government, will be expected to bring $60 million additional funding to PolyU.
At the cheque presentation ceremony, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said, "Mr Yau's ardent support does not only endorse our achievements over the years, it is also a strong boost to our efforts to raise funds for the University as Mr Yau's benefaction enables PolyU to secure extra funds from the Fifth Matching Grant Scheme which was announced in the latest Budget Speech."
Mr Yau said, "I got to know Professor Tong last year when I sponsored the Leo Ku Concert. I am truly impressed by his enthusiasm in education. He also has a commitment to take PolyU to its next level of excellence and to achieve academic excellence in a professional context. My donation today is simply to cast my vote of confidence to Professor Tong and to PolyU. I also encourage other alumni to follow suit in order to facilitate PolyU to achieve its mission."
Mr Yau Wah-yau graduated from the Department of Electronic Engineering of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1983. He founded Realink Group in 1991, emphasizing on the design, manufacturing and distribution of a variety of pagers under its own brand name. Under Mr Yau's visionary leadership, the Group expanded its business further to cover financial paging and Internet brokerage service in 2001 and has become one of the most profitable companies in the field.
While heavily engaged with his business, Mr Yau shows great care for the community and set up the Yau Wah Yau Charitable Foundation Limited in 1999 to support various charitable activities and those in need. His accomplishments in advancing telecommunications earned him the Young Industrialist Award of Hong Kong in 1998.
