
[date]2010.03.31[/date]
[title]PolyU President presides at the inauguration of alumni association in UK[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) celebrated the inauguration of its first overseas association in Europe recently. Based in London, the Hong Kong PolyU (United Kingdom) Association is the eighth overseas association of the University. It serves to unite PolyU graduates and past employees in the UK and foster their links with the University.
The inauguration ceremony of the Association cum luncheon was held in London on 28 March with the presence of Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (International and Executive Education); Professor George Woo, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, and other senior executives of the University. The ceremony was also graced by Mr Victor Lo, former Chairman of PolyU Council and Miss Sarah Wu, Director General of Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office of the SAR Government in London.
The Association aims at building ties and fostering mutual support among the graduates and former staff members of PolyU or its forerunners (including The Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Government Trade School) residing in the UK. Apart from supporting the goals and activities of PolyU, the Association will also actively participate in the intellectual and cultural activities in the UK.
All graduates and former staff residing in UK are welcomed to join the association. For more details of the Association or to obtain a copy of the application form, please contact PolyU's Alumni Affairs and Development Office via alumni@polyu.edu.hk.
Taking the opportunity of visiting the UK, Professor Tong also participated in Going Global 4, an annual international education conference organized by the British Council that was attended by over 1,200 senior delegates of educational organizations from 75 countries. Apart from introducing the latest development and achievements of PolyU, he also shared his view in a plenary session entitled "What makes a truly global university?".
In addition to the conference, Professor Tong and other senior executives paid visits to the University of Cambridge, University College London, City University London, University of the Arts London, and the Royal College of Art, just to name a few, to further strengthen and explore collaborations with these institutions.
