
[date]2010.01.21[/date]
[title]PolyU scholars win lion's share of national awards[/title]
This year four distinguished scholars from tertiary institutions in Hong Kong have been bestowed with the State Science and Technology Awards (SNSA) organized by the State Council, and two of them are outstanding researchers of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). The selection process is highly competitive and more than 120 entries were received for this national honour which aims to recognise excellence in basic and applied research in natural science.
An SNSA second-class award went to Dr Chau Kwok-wing, Associate Professor of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering. He is honoured for the joint research project "Multiobjective decision making and rainfall-runoff prediction theories for complex flood control system for reservoirs" nominated by Liaoning Province.
Working in collaboration with Professor Cheng Chun-tian of Dalian University of Technology  and Professor Li Deng-feng of Dalian Naval Academy, Dr Chau has developed a sophisticated theory which takes into consideration different factors related to the prediction of rainfall and flooding. Apart from analyzing massive data, they have made use of fuzzy logic sets, pattern recognition theory and the uncertainty principle in developing this new theory which underpins an optimal model of flood control system for reservoirs.
This ground-breaking theory has also provided the solid foundation for subsequent development of a reservoir flood control operation system which is also pioneered by Dr Chau and this team. Taking 60 reservoirs and four river basin floodwater forecasting systems in the Chinese mainland as models, new technology is applied to this invention which emphasizes practicability and efficiency in the prevention of flood.  
The newly invented flood control management system is capable of analysing and forecasting floodwater level based on the knowledge of decision-makers, historical flood control cases and real-time information. This will in turn formulate flood control proposals and facilitate timely decisions. Due to its expandable nature, this system has proved to be effective and highly practicable, with the forecasting accuracy of higher than 90 per cent.
The system has been successfully applied to the flood control system centred around the Three Gorges Reservoir for flooding system planning, and the Liao River, Hun River and Tai River for real time operation of reservoirs. Enabled by this breakthrough, the authorities concerned can now control flooding effectively and plan ahead for generation of hydroelectricity as well. This novel system is also installed in 100 medium to large-sized reservoirs in the Chinese mainland.
Another SNSA second-class award went to Professor Wang Rui of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology of PolyU. He is honoured for this project "Asymmetric Catalytic Syntheses and Their Applications in Polypeptide Investigations", which is nominated by Gansu Province.  Professor Rui is currently out of town.
Asymmetric calatytic syntheses is an important tool of modern chirotechnology, which is also a hot topic of research because of its potential wide applications in the pharmaceutical and agrochemical industries. PolyU had once designated chirotechnology as an Area of Strategic Development and established an Open Laboratory of Chirotechnology. The Open Laboratory has recently gained important recognition from the Ministry of Science and Technology, which has given preliminary approval for PolyU to establish a State Key Laboratory for Chiro-sciences.
In 2001, PolyU and HKU jointly led a massive effort in the formation of an Institute of Molecular Technology for Drug Discovery and Synthesis in which chirotechnology is an important component. The effort was recognized by the University Grants Committee and was recognised as an Area of Excellence (AoE) in Hong Kong with an award of $48 million research grant.
