
[date]2010.04.13[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures future entrepreneurs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) awarded nine winning teams of the Global Student Challenge (GSC): PolyU Pre-Challenge 2009/10 today (13 April) at an awards presentation ceremony on the university campus. The champion will have a chance to join the GSC finals.
The GSC: PolyU Pre-Challenge, an annual programme launched since 2001, is a business/ development plan competition which aims to stimulate PolyU students' innovation potential and provide them with a platform to translate their creative ideas into sound business ventures.
PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) Professor Judy Tsui said, "I am pleased to see that more multi-disciplinary teams have expressed an interest in this programme. This Pre-Challenge helps foster entrepreneurial spirit among the younger generation and prepare them for the ever-changing and highly competitive business world."
This year, 39 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of 118 students participated in the first round competition, devising innovative ideas on products, management and or services. Eighteen teams had been shortlisted for Round II, from which three teams had been identified for joining the Final Round. They presented their business proposals in detail to the panel of judges, comprising of Dr Raymond Chan, Chairman and CEO, IDT International Ltd., Mr Alex Hung, Managing Director, Crossover International Co. Ltd., Mr Albert Ip, Managing Director of Investments, Asia Pacific, Private Banking and Investment Group, Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd., and Mr Andrew Young, Director of Partnership Development, PolyU.
The contestants were required to formulate their business plans under the guidance of an academic advisor and professional trainers. Training workshops and coaching sessions on relevant topics such as "Business Plan Writing Skills", "Financial Planning for Business Plan" and "Presentation Skills" were provided to the contesting students free of charge.  
Diamond, Platinum and Gold prizes were awarded basing on the following five judging criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technology novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/development plan and presentation skills. The team with the Diamond Award will be representing Hong Kong to join the GSC finals. The GSC is the global business plan competition hosted by PolyU for secondary and university students from around the world.
Diamond, Platinum and Gold awards winning teams received a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000 respectively while other three first and second runners-up received the Excellence Awards of $5,000 and Merit Awards of $3,000 respectively.
The winning teams are as follows:
Diamond Award of Innovation: GOOGLORStudents: Mike Shen Jingyi, Louis Liu Xiao, Liu Zhengyang, Qi LingAdvisor: Professor Vincent Cho, Associate Professor, Department of Management and Marketing
Platinum Award of Innovation: BalanceStudents: Knox Tang Wai-lam, Cheung Yuk-han, Cheung Pan-lok, Vivian Li Man-waiAdvisor: Dr Lai Kam-wah, Assistant Professor, School of Accounting and Finance
Gold Award of Innovation: Toothpaste CubeStudents: Sophie Wong Lam-lam, Teresa Suen Yu-tingAdvisor: Mr Lawrence Fung, Lecturer, School of Accounting and Finance
