
[date]2010.05.26[/date]
[title]PolyU co-hosts Joint International Conference on Theory, Data Handling and Modelling in GeoSpatial Information Science[/title]
More than 300 leading experts in geospatial information science (GIS) from over 20 countries and regions are gathering at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 26 to 28 May to participate in the Joint International Conference on Theory, Data Handling and Modelling in GeoSpatial Information Science.
Co-organised by three commissions of the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS) and International Geographical Union (IGU), including ISPRS Commission II on Theory and Concepts of Spatial Information Science, IGU Commission on Geographic Information Science, and IGU Commission on Modelling Geographical Systems, the three-day Conference is jointly hosted by PolyU, Hong Kong Baptist University, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, and Chinese Academy of Sciences. It has brought together the most renowned scientists in the GIS community to discuss the latest advances in GIS, which is regarded as one of the three most important emerging and evolving fields, together with biotechnology and nanotechnology.
The Conference was officially opened today (26 May) by Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; and Mr Leung Cheuk-fai, Deputy Director of Planning, Planning Department, The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, on PolyU campus.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong said, 'The Conference provides an inter-disciplinary platform for leading researchers and professionals to present their latest findings in and exchange views on data handling and modelling of geospatial data. We are privileged to host this top level scientific international conference and look forward to seeing further advancements in geospatial information technology and how it could further improve our lives.'
Four prominent international and local scientists have been invited to deliver keynote speeches for the Conference. They include Professor Michael F. Goodchild, University of California, Santa Barbara, US; Professor Deren Li, Wuhan University, China; Professor Daniel Griffith, University of Texas at Dallas, US; and Professor Anthony G.O. Yeh, The University of Hong Kong.
The plenary speeches and group discussions of the Conference are grouped under fifteen sub-themes, namely Spatial Modelling, Space and Time, Spatial Analysis, Spatial Data Mining, Uncertainty Modelling, Spatial Database, Advances in Cartography, Location-Based Services, Mobile Data Models, Spatial Data Processing Algorithms, Web GIS, Geo-Visualization, Spatial information for Environmental Studies, Spatial Information for Land Use Studies, Application of GIS and Remote Sensing, and Technology Innovations from Industry.
Major companies in GIS industry including ESRI, Leica Geosystems Ltd., Pitney Bowes Business Insight (MapInfo) and Navia Info Corporation Limited, and South Survey &amp; Mapping Instrument Co. Ltd. exhibite the latest instruments and software systems during the conference period, and these indicate the latest development in GIS industry.
For more details and programme of the Conference, please visit its official website: http://isgis.lsgi.polyu.edu.hk/
 
 
