
[date]2010.05.08[/date]
[title]Computing talent develops SMS-based services for airport users and tourists[/title]
A young computing talent who works on a wheelchair and strikes the computer keyboard with a pair of chopsticks has developed a package of SMS-based services against all odds. These services could enable airport travelers and tourists to have convenient access to information on updated flight status as well as shopping outlets or restaurants around Hong Kong.
The project is developed by Mr Lau Hiu-fung, who suffers from Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, under the supervision of Associate Professor Dr Henry Chan of the Department of Computing at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Hiu-fung is presenting his work as a special gift to his beloved mother on the eve of Mother's Day at a seminar jointly organized by PolyU and the Internet Professional Association (iProA). This seminar is also supported by Communications Association of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Computer Society, Lions Club of Hong Kong (Pacific) and The Hong Kong Association for Computer Education.   Prof. Alex Wai, Associate Vice President and Dean of the Faculty of Engineering, thanked all the organizations and people for supporting this meaningful project. He said PolyU is dedicated to advancing applied research and is also devoted to nurturing young people for the society and putting theories into practice. Hiu Fung is one of the successful examples.
Addressing the Seminar, Dr Winnie Tang, President of iProA, said SMS is one of the most commonly used telecommunications services. She also praised Hiu-fung for his efforts on this project which provides value-added services for both airport travelers and tourists.
This project aims to develop a package of three SMS-based services. The first service provides arrival/departure and transit flight information for airport users. The second service recommends shops/restaurants through SMS using intelligent computing techniques. The third service provides value-added services through interaction with external devices.
Hiu-fung was a former student of the John F. Kennedy Centre of the Hong Kong Red Cross. His first dream was realized when he was admitted to PolyU to pursue a BSc degree in computing in 2006. Undaunted by the continuing deterioration of his physical condition, he keeps on working hard for his studies and graduated with first-class honour in 2009.
He showed his talent and snatched the Gold Award of the 2009 Amway Pan-Pearl River Delta Region Universities IT Project Competition with his final year project "RFID/ SMS-based Flight Information and Advertisement System", after beating nearly 40 teams from more than 200 universities. He also won the Gold Award in the Hong Kong ICT Awards 2009 in the Best Innovation and Research (College &amp; Undergraduates) Category.
The SMS project developed by Hiu-fung is funded by a $400,000 grant from the Office of the Telecommunications Authority (OFTA). It is supported by Airport Authority Hong Kong, Decisive Consulting, DHL Global Forwarding, Hong Kong Cyberport, Hong Kong RFID, Hutchison Telecommunications (Hong Kong), iProA, Macroview Telecom, Xgate and 2DiC.
