
[date]2010.05.25[/date]
[title]PolyU stages Knitwear Fashion Show[/title]
The creative flair and design talent of the graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) have won big rounds of applause from the industry at their Knitwear Fashion Show held today (25 May) at The Mira Hong Kong.A collaborated effort of design students, ITC, various knitwear producers and yarn suppliers, the annual Knitwear Fashion Show aims to foster the relations between the Institute and the industry, apart from showcasing the quality design and products of the PolyU students. In designing their own collection of four outfits, 20 graduating students majoring in knitwear design were provided with raw materials sponsored by knitwear producers and yarn suppliers.
Addressing the Show, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said, "On behalf of the University, I would like to express my gratitude to our friends from the industry, in particular, Nameson Group and all other sponsors for your unstinting support. The show today will further strengthen the relationship between PolyU and the industry to jointly nurture designers of tomorrow."
Professor Tao Xiaoming, Chair Professor and Head of ITC, said, "Having witnessed the inaugural Knitwear Design with Technology Specialism from its initial concept to where it is today, I am pleased that ITC has received an overwhelming response and appreciation from the knitwear industry." She also announced that Crystal Group has agreed to be the Title Sponsor of next year's Knitwear Fashion Show.
Mr Wong Ting-chung, Chairman and CEO of Nameson Group and Title Sponsor of the Show, remarked, "PolyU introduced the Knitwear Fashion Show as a means of providing students with the opportunity to experience the processes of designing, manufacturing and displaying clothing first-hand. Since the debut of the Show in 2008, we have been assisting students to produce their knitwear creations. We are pleased to extend our support by serving as the Title Sponsor of the event and share the accomplishments of the students with friends from the knitwear industry."
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
