
[date]2010.03.10[/date]
[title]Independent panel set up to review management of PolyU's subsidiaries[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today announced the set up of an independent panel to review the operation of PolyU's subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities; and their relationships with various University bodies, with a view to developing a more robust mechanism for managing these entities for the long term benefits of the University. 
Dr York Liao MBE, currently Chairman of Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications, will assume the Chairmanship of the Independent Review Panel. Other members of the panel are Mr Andrew Lo, Managing Director at China Renaissance Capital Investment, and Mr Vincent To BBS, founder and senior partner of W.K. To &amp; Co, solicitors.                          
"The set up of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities has been instrumental in realizing the vision and mission of PolyU, an application-oriented university. Over the years, they have contributed significantly to transferring knowledge and technology, benefiting the wider community," said Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU.
Currently, PolyU has investment and/or interest in 22 subsidiaries, 9 associates and 7 jointly controlled entities. They were set up to run a wide variety of business, ranging from the provision of professional consultancy services to developing and marketing new technologies and new products.
"We see the need to foster more collaboration and partnership between the industry and the academia in the future and thus we are very pleased to have the assistance from Dr Liao, Mr Lo and Mr To to help review the current practice. With their expertise and wealth of experience in the education, private sectors and community services, I am confident that the Panel will be able to come up with valuable recommendations for our reference," added Professor Tong. 
The Independent Review Panel will commence their work in mid March and target to furnish the University Council and management with a report in three months' time.  
Attachments: Terms of Reference for the Independent Review Panel and Biodata of panel members.
