
[date]2010.03.25[/date]
[title]PolyU and Royal Veterinary College sign Memorandum of Agreement for Collaboration in Veterinary Nursing[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Royal Veterinary College, University of London (RVC) on 22 March that marks the launch of Hong Kong's first-ever Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Veterinary Nursing. On the same occasion, RVC celebrated the inauguration of The Royal Veterinary College (Hong Kong) which signals its commitment to the region and will ensure the College plays an active role in contributing to the development of veterinary nursing and related disciplines in Hong Kong.
The MoA was signed by Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, and Professor Quintin McKellar, Principal of RVC. Both parties agreed to provide a four-year Bachelor of Science Honours degree Programme in Veterinary Nursing.
Dr Roy Chung Chi-ping, Court Chairman of PolyU, also attended the ceremony to witness the signing. He was confident that students of the programme would make positive contributions to Hong Kong's thriving veterinary industry and help enhance public understanding of animal health and welfare.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "Many infectious diseases are believed to be caused by interactions between animals and animals, as well as between animals and humans. The veterinary nursing profession, therefore, has a vital role to play in a much bigger global issue ' public health. We believe that more understanding and research on the discipline will improve the entire public health and medical system, which in turn will bring benefits to the general community as a whole."
Professor McKellar reinforced RVC's international focus and innovative approaches to teaching and learning, which puts the College at the forefront of veterinary education; developing programmes to benefit society at large. Graduates of Hong Kong's first-ever degree in Veterinary Nursing will be equipped with knowledge and skills to provide professional veterinary nursing support for veterinarians. Professor McKellar also thanked the veterinary and animal welfare community in Hong Kong for supporting the programme by offering placement opportunities for students.
Under the agreement, PolyU and RVC will be organising academic exchange events such as seminars, workshops and visits. The two institutions will also arrange reciprocal student exchange programmes to enable their students to learn about different veterinary clinical practices and research in Hong Kong and the UK.
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has taken the first step to join hands with the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) of the University of London to address the shortage of professional veterinary nursing personnel in Hong Kong. FHSS and RVC are jointly offering Hong Kong's first-ever degree programme in veterinary nursing for entry in September 2010. In 2008 and 2009, FHSS and RVC also broke new ground in Hong Kong by jointly offering the region's first-ever tertiary education courses in veterinary nursing through the Foundation Studies in Veterinary Nursing, which gave students a foretaste of things to come.
The Royal Veterinary College is the UK's first and largest veterinary school and a constituent College of the University of London. It also provides support for veterinary and related professions through its three referral hospitals, diagnostic services and continuing professional development courses. For more details of RVC, please visit www.rvc.ac.uk.
