
[date]2010.05.10[/date]
[title]Creative Capitalism Forum [/title]
Co-organized by Future Enterprise Foundation and The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and sponsored by the Chen Yet-Sen Family Foundation, the inaugural Creative Capitalism Forum was held at PolyU on 10 May 2010.
Over 19 top Asia entrepreneurs, economists and industry leaders joined together to exchange views on the concept of "Creative Capitalism" and to explore new business models to drive sustainable development in Asia. More than 400 participants from key stakeholder groups, including government, business, non-profit, academia and the media attended the panel discussions which covered topics ranging from forging sustainable enterprises to creating a socially responsible economy.
Highlights

// 
Section 2 | Section 3 | Section 4 | Section 5

Opening Session

"With the advocacy of sustainable urban development as one of our key strategic priorities, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University fully recognizes the importance of sustainability and firmly believe that the needs and well-being of the society must be given primary consideration," said Professor Timothy Tong, President, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University at the opening session.
Over 400 participants turned up for the Forum.
Corporate Panel

Facilitated by Professor Judy Tsui (right), PolyU's Vice President (International and Executive Education), panelists shared their views on "The Balance of 'doing good' &amp; 'doing well' - new reality or old dream?"

The panelists included (from left) Mr Jeremy Paul Egerton Hobbins, Director of Li &amp; Fung Limited; Dr Raymond Leung, Chairman and CEO of TDK China Co. Ltd; Mr Winfried Engelbrecht-Bresges, CEO of The Hong Kong Jockey Club; Professor Frederick Ma, Chairman and Non Executive Director of China Strategic Holdings Limited; and Dr. Zhang Ya-Qin, Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Corporation &amp; Chairman of Microsoft Asia-Pacific R&amp;D Group.
Power Panel

(From left) Professor Edward Chen, Honorary Professor &amp; Distinguished Fellow of the Centre of Asian Studies at The University of Hong Kong; Professor K.C. Chan, Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury of The HKSAR Government and The Hon. Marjorie Yang, Chairman of Esquel Group &amp; PolyU Council, inspired the audiences on the topic "The Road Ahead for China's economic development - balancing resources allocation". The panel was facilitated by Mr Ronnie C. Chan, Chairman of Hang Lung Properties Limited.
Foundation/NGOs Panel

Facilitated by Mr Christian Stewart (right), Founder of Family Legacy Asia Limited, the panel discussed on "Social Enterprise - the converging point of business and philanthropy".
The panelists were (from left) Ms Christine Fang, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Council of Social Service; Ms Laura Chen, Executive Chair of ZeShan Foundation; Mr Doug Miller, Founding Chairman &amp; Honorary President of European Venture Philanthropy Association &amp; Founder of Asia Venture Philanthropy Network; Mr James Chen, Chairman of Chen Yet-sen Family Foundation &amp; WAHUM Group Holdings; and Professor Kevin Au, Associate Professor of The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
