
[date]2003.11.27[/date]
[title]PolyU textile experts excel in international competitions[/title]
With their creative fabric design and an outstanding research paper, textile experts of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) won three awards in the First China International Home Textile Design Competition, and Special Citation in the third Cheongju International Craft Competition held in South Korea.
The three awards obtained in the First China International Home Textile Design Competition were: Silver Award for Product Design, Outstanding Award for Product Design, and Bronze Thesis Award. The award-winning fabrics were jointly designed and created by Mr Jiang Shouqiang, PhD student; Prof. Edward Newton, Visiting Chair Professor; Dr Marcus Yuen Chun-wah and Dr Li Yi, Associate Professors, of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC).
The Competition was organized earlier this year by China Home Textile Association, Sub-Council of Textile Industry of the China Council for Promotion of International Trade, Messe Frankfurt (HK) Ltd and the People's Government of Haining, Zhejiang Province. Apart from encouraging original design of home textile products and enhancing international exchange in home textile design, it also aimed to raise awareness of the increasing demand for high quality fashionable home textiles in China. The demand for home textile products such as curtains, carpets and upholstery fabrics will sharply increase owing to the construction of a large number of new hotels and facilities for the two forthcoming giant scale events ?2008 Beijing Olympic Games and 2010 Shanghai World Expo. The two events, attracting worldwide attention, were also themes of the Competition.
Under the theme "2008 Beijing Olympic Games", the ITC researchers grabbed the Silver Award for Product Design with their nano metallized fabric entitled "Power Brilliancy" whereas under the theme "2010 Shanghai World Expo", the researchers grabbed the Outstanding Award for Product Design with their nano silvered fabric entitled "Enchanted World".
Both collections demonstrate the fusion of artistic creativity and technological innovation in fabric design. The unique pattern and colour of the fabrics are created by depositing metal or silver and functional nano particles onto fibre surfaces. The metal or silver particles allow special light reflections generating metallic visual effects with rich and brilliant colours, symbolizing the vitality and brilliance going with the two events. Furthermore, the beautiful fabrics possess functional qualities such as water and oil repellent, as well as anti-bacterial, which are realized through the coating of nano materials onto the fabrics.
Mr Jiang, Prof. Newton and Dr Yuen also grabbed the Bronze Thesis Award with their essay entitled "Textile Design and Material Technology".  It reviewed the development of textile design in recent years, covering researches on new fibre and application of technology in the textiles field. The technical elements introduced in the essay have important impact on textile design in the future. The thesis has been published in Design and Art (June 2002, Vol. 110).
Among the team members, Mr Jiang also received Special Citation in the third Cheongju International Craft Competition for his work entitled "Sun . Rain".  He has used the techniques of chemical etching and dyeing in his design of the nylon metallic fabric. Its unique transparent effect conveys a sense of vigour and vitality. The Competition was hosted by the organizing committee of the Cheongju International Craft Biennale in South Korea. Themed "Happiness in Life", the Competition aimed to facilitate exchange of the design of craftworks, exploring their use in daily life as well as their aesthetic value as an art form. About 900 designers from 41 countries and places all over the world had participated in the Competition.
