
[date]2010.05.17[/date]
[title]PolyU hails further success of mycar[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and its business partner EuAuto Technology Ltd are proud for sealing a landmark deal today (17 May) with US auto maker GreenTech Automotive (GTA). This collaboration will take the city's first home-grown electric vehicle, which is jointly developed by EuAuto and PolyU, to the US market.
The announcement came during US Secretary of Commerce Mr Gary Locke's trade mission in Hong Kong. The ceremony began with speeches by GTA Chairman Mr Terry McAuliffe and SAR Government's Secretary for the Environment Mr Edward Yau, and the agreement was signed by Mr Charles Wang, CEO of GTA; and Mr Peter Sun, Chairman of EuAuto Technology Ltd. PolyU Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang and Acting President Professor Philip Chan also attended the signing ceremony and shared the joy.
Addressing the ceremony, Ms Yang said: "We are happy to see the growth and development of mycar. With a long-established application-oriented culture, PolyU will continue to conduct research that has impact and practical value for the society. And we will continue to incubate more innovations which will not only contribute to economic growth but also shape a better future for the world."
Professor Philip Chan, Acting President of PolyU, was pleased to see the mycar project had gone beyond incubation to international context. He said "PolyU generates knowledge and ideas. This is a successful case of adopting outside-the-box thinking, and bringing ideas to reality working with industry. This project goes in line with the government's direction in propelling Hong Kong towards a knowledge-based economy."
This occasion also marked the introduction of mycar to Denmark's Bornholm Island. The Danish Government will deploy mycar for rentals by tourists on this special resort themed on green tourism. Mr Asbjorn Christiansen, Acting Consul General of the Royal Danish Consulate General in Hong Kong, showed his support at the ceremony today.
PolyU initiated the mycar project concept in 2001 and later partnered with EuAuto to develop and launch this first home-grown electric vehicle. In late 2003, this concept vehicle was debuted at Bologna Motor Show in Italy and it immediately drew attention from the European media and its automobile industry.
With its body designed by master Italian designer Giorgetto Giugiaro, mycar obtained the World Manufacturer Identification (WMI) Code in 2009 and it went on sales in many European countries including the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Austria and Denmark. It is the first Hong Kong-developed vehicle which fully complied with European standards, and also the first home-grown vehicle to hit the international market.
More recently, mycar has met the roadworthiness requirements stipulated by the Government's Transport Department and was granted the vehicle type-approval as a private car. The vehicle made its first historic journey in its home town on 23 October 2009, with Financial Secretary Mr John Tsang as the first passenger. It is available for sale in the city on the condition of travelling on roads with a speed limit at 50km/h or below.
The development of mycar has brought together expertise from different PolyU departments and units, including the School of Design, Department of Electrical Engineering, Industrial Centre, and Partnership Development Office.
// 
