
[date]2003.07.24[/date]
[title]PolyU wins lion's share in engineering research funding[/title]
In the latest Research Grants Council (RGC)'s Competitive Earmarked Research Grant (CERG) exercise, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) came first in the engineering discipline with an allocation of more than $46.4 million, which accounted for 28.7 per cent of the total funding in this category.
This year PolyU has won research funding totalling at $60,443,000 in the annual exercise, representing the highest amount ever achieved by the Institution over the years. Of those 342 applications submitted by PolyU researchers, 125 new projects have been approved for CERG funding in 2003/04, and 91 PolyU projects were rated by the RGC expert panels as "fundable but not funded."
Prof. Ko Jan-ming, PolyU Vice President (Research and Development), said, "This result clearly demonstrated that our researches in some focused areas have gained international recognition. It is heartening to know our concerted efforts have borne fruit, which helps to further strengthen our foundation for the development of our research activities."
Elaborating on the breakdown of engineering funding, he pointed out that PolyU has beaten other UGC-funded institutions in two major engineering subject disciplines, with nearly $14.2 million of funding awarded to PolyU in civil engineering-related discipline; and nearly $18.5 million in mechanical engineering-related discipline.
He also paid tribute to two outstanding PolyU researchers Prof. Albert Chan Sun-chi, Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology; and Prof. Ronald So, Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, who have achieved 100 per cent success rate in their CERG applications for nine and seven consecutive years respectively.
Out of all approved projects in 2003/04, the greatest amount of funding ($1.07m) went to the Institute of Textiles and Clothing for a project entitled "Nano-structured Polymeric Photonics Fibers and Fabrics" while the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering has the greatest number of 16 successful projects.
The vibrant and dynamic research culture at PolyU is reflected by the number of ongoing research projects which totals 2,112, and the total spending of $259.46 million on research in 2002/03.
