
[date]2004.02.23[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented the Outstanding Student Awards to six distinguished students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits in a special ceremony held on campus yesterday (23 February).
This year, the award of "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" went to Miss Li Vinci, a final-year student of BA (Hons.) in Translation and Chinese at the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies. She has also been named the Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Communication.
Miss Li was winner of the Hongkong Bank Foundation Overseas Scholarship 2001/02 and the Hongkong Bank Foundation Local Bursary &amp; Scholarship Programme - Scholarship 2000/01. She had participated in the Hong Kong Student Ambassador Programme organized by the Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups and was Group Leader at the Zhongshan University Study Tour. Apart from her enthusiastic participation in extra-curricular activities and voluntary services, she also attained top academic results. She ranked first in class in her last two years of study.
The other five awardees, who are all full-time final year students, are:
Mr Wong Hon-tung, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles 
Mr Ice Tang Yu-hin, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Business 
Miss Chan Ka-wai, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use 
Mr Kwok Chi-hang, Outstanding Student of the Faculty of Engineering 
Miss Ip Koon-ching, Outstanding Student of the Health and Social Sciences
Mr Wong Hon-tung is a third-year student of BSc (Hons) in Engineering Physics at the Department of Applied Physics. He was winner of the Varitronix Prize 2002/03. He had participated in the summer exchange programme in Switzerland offered by the International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience. He ranked first in class in the last two years of study.
Mr Ice Tang Yu-hin is a third-year student of BSc (Hons) in International Shipping and Transport Logistics at the Department of Shipping and Transport Logistics. He was winner of the Education Scholarships Fund - Lions ?03?Scholarship 2001/02 and 2002/03, and Mediterranean Shipping Company Scholarship 2002/03.
Miss Chan Ka-wai is a final-year student of MEng in Civil &amp; Structural Engineering at the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering. She was winner of C.M. Wong Associates Scholarship 2000/01 and Dean's Honours List 2003 of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use of the University.
Mr Kwok Chi-hang is a fourth-year student of BEng (Hons) in Electronic and Information Engineering. He was winner of Chiap Hua Cheng's Foundation Scholarship 2002/03 and Hang Seng Bank Scholarship 2001/02. He ranked first in class in the last three years of study.
Miss Ip Koon-ching is a fourth-year student of BSc (Hons) in Optometry at the Department of Optometry and Radiography. She was winner of Sir Edward Youde Memorial Scholarship 2002/03 and ranked first in class in the last three years of study.
At the ceremony, the awardees were each presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000. The names of all awardees have been inscribed on a plaque put up on PolyU campus.
Addressing the ceremony, PolyU President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong said, "The exemplary performances of the six recipients of the Outstanding Student Awards this year as well as those who have been nominated by their departments truly demonstrate their distinguished accomplishment in both academic and extra-curricular activities.
"The achievement of this group of fine students is also a testimony of our efforts in nurturing preferred graduates for our community."
PolyU's Outstanding Student Award is granted on an annual basis to full-time final-year students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits during their studies. Each academic department is allowed to nominate one candidate, who has to compete with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. Subsequently, the "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" is selected among the six awardees from different faculties.
The selection of awardees is based on five criteria of equal weighting: academic achievement, leadership, involvement in extra-curricular activities, community service experience and exposure, and personal qualities.
