
[date]2010.03.29[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Symposium of Intimate Apparel[/title]
Organized by the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Third International Symposium of Intimate Apparel was held today (29 March) on PolyU campus to promote the exchange of the latest knowledge and development of intimate apparel among academics and industrialists. The event was supported by the world's leading lingerie and beachwear trade show organizer Eurovet as well as the Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association Ltd.
Themed "Function and Beauty of Intimate Apparel", this year's Symposium brought together some 180 local and overseas lingerie experts to share their insights and experiences. At the verge of economic recovery in the foreseeable future, focus was put on exploring innovative technologies to provide high value-added products for better fit, quality and skin care for the industry to sharpen its competitive edge and to capture the future opportunities.
The Symposium was kicked off by Professor Tao Xiao-ming, Head and Chair Professor of ITC, and Professor Andrew Sia, Honorary Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association and Chairman &amp; CEO of ACE Style Group.
Distinguished speakers have been invited to share their ideas and experience. Professor John Xin, Associate Head of ITC, speaks on "Nano Textiles for Body Health"; Mrs Janice Mee, Former Programme Leader of Contour Fashion of De Montfort University, United Kingdom, talks about "Design Challenges of Contour Fashion"; Mr Raffaele (Alfie) Germano, Vice President and Managing Director ' Asia, VF Asia Ltd., Hong Kong, speaks on "Future Trend of Active Wear"; Professor Julie Steele, Director of Biomechanics Research Laboratory and Head of School of Health Sciences, University of Wollongong, Australia, talks about "Biomechanics of Better Bras"; and Ms Reena Pandarum, Lecturer of Department of Life and Consumer Sciences, University of South Africa, South Africa, delivers a talk on "3D Breast Anthropometry of Plus-size Women".
Established with strong industrial support in 2005, the Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel of ITC is the first lingerie institute in the Asia Pacific. Over the years, the Institute's research has reaped fruitful results and gained international reputation. Its graduates from the BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel are well sought after by the industry. Starting from 2008/09 academic year, the programme has been converted to a government-funded articulation programme. This milestone not only signifies the quality of the programme, but also charts a new chapter in the development of local tertiary education in lingerie.
Detailed information of the Symposium is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/symposium
