
[date]2010.03.11[/date]
[title]PolyU celebrates the topping-out for the Redevelopment of Pak Sui Yuen[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (11 March) hailed the topping-out for the redevelopment of its former staff quarters Pak Sui Yuen in Tsimshatsui East. The new premises, which is scheduled for completion in late 2010, will be home to its world-renowned School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) and a unique teaching hotel. With its distinct design and prominent location by the side of Cross-Harbour Tunnel's Kowloon entrance, the new infrastructure is set to become a new icon in the heart of the city.
The Topping-out Ceremony was held on the redevelopment site with Ir Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Kaye Chon, Chair Professor and Director of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management; Mr Rocco Yim, Executive Director of Rocco Design Architects Limited; and Ir Dr Stanley Wong, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of Paul Y. Engineering Group Limited, as the officiating guests. About a hundred guests, senior management executives and staff of PolyU were also drawn to the Ceremony to witness the precious moment.
Addressing the Ceremony, Professor Tong said the Project marked a new milestone in the history of the University. "Having dedicated premises for our School of Hotel and Tourism Management, I am confident that the School will attract even more world-class teaching staff as well as students from around the world, thus playing a bigger role in helping to meet the industry's demand for quality manpower and expertise," said Professor Tong.
Situated in Tsimshatsui East and adjacent to the PolyU campus, the redeveloped complex houses a teaching and research hotel which is now named Hotel ICON, conference facilities, new staff quarters and School offices. Upon completion of the entire project, the international status of the School as a world-class institution will be further strengthened, thereby facilitating the School's collaboration with the hospitality and tourism industry and education institutions around the world.
PolyU had the foresight to establish its School of Hotel and Tourism Management as one of the best hotel and tourism schools in the world. In view of the development needs of the University and the rising importance of hospitality and tourism education and research, PolyU unveiled a plan to redevelop its former staff quarters Pak Sui Yuen in 2005.
The School is also one of the world-leading providers of hospitality and tourism education. According to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality &amp; Tourism Research in November 2009, it is now ranked No. 2 in the world among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship.
The premises will also house some 30 flats in a separate wing as quarters for senior staff members.
