
[date]2010.06.02[/date]
[title]Elite students gear up for Global Student Challenge final[/title]
More than 200 top students from all over the world will be presenting their innovative business proposals at the Semi-Final &amp; Final rounds of the Global Student Challenge (GSC) on 7 and 10 June. This event is organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) for the first time as a major initiative to embrace internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship. Since its launch, PolyU has raised funds and received sponsorships amounting to over HK$7 million for this new initiative. The inaugural GSC attracted more than 180 teams from secondary schools and universities from 21 countries and territories. Among them, 30 finalist teams have been selected for the University Division and 30 for the Secondary School Division. (see attached for full list) 
Extending a warm welcome to the participants, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong also expressed his thanks to the sponsors and supporting organizations. He said, "It is truly impressive to see the widespread support from the community for this initiative and keen participation of students from different parts of the world. I strongly believe that students, through participation in the GSC, can develop innovative entrepreneurship and broaden their international horizon."
Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (International and Executive Education), said "We are extremely pleased to host this inaugural competition which provides a unique opportunity for students to demonstrate their business sense and creativity. More importantly, it helps heighten PolyU's effort in promoting internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship."
During their stay in Hong Kong, GSC participants will have ample opportunities interacting with their peers through an array of activities. The comprehensive excursion programme range from educational visits to the Hong Kong Science Park and Cyberport to fun occasions such as Ocean Park visit, Star Ferry Cruise and Tai-chi experience.
Participants can choose from, but not confined to the three sub-themes including Health and Wellness, Lifestyle, Environment and Sustainability. Each three- to four-member team is required to present their business proposal with originality and creativity. All 12 finalist teams will be invited to take part in the "Elevator Pitch" which involves a 60-second video shooting for their business products/services. The video will be broadcasted prior to each team's presentation at the Final on 10 June afternoon.
Winners of Gold, Silver, Bronze, Commendation Awards as well as the Theme Award and Best of the Best Commercial Award for each Division will be selected and announced on 10 June evening. The awardees will each receive a cash prize, a trophy and a certificate. 
The University is grateful to the following sponsors and supporting organizations for their ardent support to the GSC:
Diamond SponsorDr Francis Choi, GBS, JP
Emerald SponsorChevalier Culture &amp; Education Foundation The Mira Hong Kong
Gold SponsorOregon Scientific (Hong Kong) Limited
Official CarriersCathay Pacific Airways LimitedHong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited
Supporting OrganizationThe Hong Kong Tourism Board
Co-organizer (for competition on the Chinese mainland)International Strategic Technology Alliance
