
[date]2010.02.28[/date]
[title]3,100 PolyU members participate in Hong Kong Marathon 2010[/title]
With more than 3,100 runners and hundreds of cheering team members, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) made a strong and prominent presence at the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2010 held today (28 February). For every 20 runners on the track, one was from PolyU and they all wore the smart red running tee with the slogan "Run for u, Run for PolyU".
PolyU was also presented with the Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award at the Marathon Expo held last Saturday (20 February). It has also set a new record for the Hong Kong Marathon by sending forth the largest ever team for the event. The Champion last year had 2,200 runners.
A booth was set up at the Victoria Park where PolyU participants could receive free physiotherapy service provided by PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences.
The organizing committee of PolyU Running Team expressed their heartfelt gratitude to all runners and cheering team members for their enthusiastic support to this community-wide sports activity. They believed that the event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni as well as encourage the PolyU community to pursue a healthy life.
To help the participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, a series of informative training seminars and tailor-made practice sessions have been organized to equip them with the necessary knowledge about marathon running so that they can give their best.
During the run, all PolyU team members put on the specially designed team uniform generously sponsored by Nike, and souvenirs were generously provided by sanofi aventis, IDS (Hong Kong) Limited and Teammax in support of the University's participation.
PolyU formed its debut running squad for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2009, which was joined by a total of 600 students, staff, alumni, and their families. The PolyU Athletics Team captured Champion in the Post-Secondary Challenge Cup (10km).
