
[date]2010.03.10[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni to have fun in homecoming carnival[/title]
With a vast pool of 280,000 graduates, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) will jointly stage the "PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival 2010" on the university campus this Sunday (14 March) from 12:00 noon to 6:00 p.m. to bring the alumni back to campus for a fun-filled Sunday.
"PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival" is held biennially and has long been a popular event among the PolyU graduates, staff and students with more than 5,000 participants joining every time. The event aims to cultivate close links between the University and its graduates by bringing them back to campus for fun. All graduates of PolyU, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School, are welcome to bring along their families and friends to the carnival to enjoy the fun-filled event.
This year, in addition to the "Federation Cup Soccer Tournament" and "PolyU Alumni 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament", participants can enjoy a wide range of exciting programmes, including artistic cycling performance, pop band singing and magic show. Participants can share some fun with their kids in the kid's corner or enjoy horse riding, campus orienteering and other activities in the games ground.
On the event day, a number of sports facilities will be opened for use for free. Participants can tour around PolyU's facilities, including House of Innovation, C Y Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies and Multimedia Innovation Centre. Participant can also take a bus tour to visit PolyU's Student Halls of Residence, Hong Kong Community College Hung Hom Bay Campus, The Phase 8 Development, and Innovation Tower.
For more details on the programmes of "PolyU Alumni Homecoming Carnival 2010", please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/alumni/carnival and for enquiries, please call Alumni Affairs and Development Office on 2766 5418 / 2766 5123 or send e-mail via alumni@polyu.edu.hk.
