
[date]2004.07.21[/date]
[title]PolyU optometrists reveal study of children's sunglasses[/title]
About 33 per cent of the children's sunglasses in the market are not complying with the American standard of ultra-violent (UV) protection, according to a recent study by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
This study was undertaken by optometrists from the Department of Optometry and Radiography with an aim to evaluate the performance of children's sunglasses. A total of 21 children's sunglasses were bought from hawkers, department stores and health and beauty chains. In a laboratory test conducted in mid-July, seven out of 21 samples did not comply with the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z80.3-2001 standard.
According to the ANSI Z80.3-2001 standard, the compliable lens should have a UVB transmittance of no more than one per cent and a UVA transmittance of no more than 0.5 times of the visual light transmittance. The American standard of UV protection is widely used for controlling cosmetic and general-purpose sunglasses.
Among the 21 tested samples, six fail to meet the ANSI Z80.3-2001 standard and have a UVB transmittance of over one per cent. Seven are recorded with a UVA transmittance, ranging from eight to 54 per cent, and thus exceed the allowed visual light transmittance standard. Among these non-compliant samples, two were labelled with UV protective function.
Mr Peter Pang, principal investigator of this study and Manager of PolyU's Optometry Clinic, said high densities of UVB light are hazardous to the eyes while UVA can contribute to the aging of skin, DNA damage and possibly skin cancer.
"Children are advised to put on a pair of good-performed sunglasses, especially when they plan to stay under the sun for an extended period of time. Also, it is important for parents to ensure that their sunglasses have a UV protective level of at least 99 per cent and the lens surfaces are free from distortion." Mr Pang added that price and darkness of the sunglasses are not indicators of UV protection.
To help parents choose the suitable sunglasses, Ms Rufina Chan, Clinical Optometrist of the Department of Optometry and Radiography, also introduced various types of lenses available in the market.
"There are a number of ways to enhance the lens performance. Hard coating is applied to protect the lenses from minor scratches. Anti-reflective coating, also known as multi-coating, increases the transmittance of lens and enhances its image quality. Ultra-violet (UV) coating is applied to protect children's eyes from UV radiation."
Ms Chan advised parents to consult their optometrists should they have any doubts in choosing the right sunglasses for their children.
