
[date]2003.10.27[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosted the presentation ceremony for the "President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement 2002/03" on campus yesterday (27 October) to pay tribute to staff members for their outstanding performance and contributions to the University and the community.
During the ceremony, apart from the "President's Awards for Excellent Performance/ Achievement" the "Faculty Awards for Outstanding Performance/ Achievement" and "Outstanding Performance/ Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff" were also presented. The award winners, including academic, administrative and general grade staff, were honoured under four categories: Teaching, Research and Scholarly Activities; Services, and Overall Contribution. The awards were presented by PolyU's President Prof. Poon Chung-kwong, Deputy President Mr Alexander Tzang, and the Faculty Deans.
Since its introduction in 1996, the award scheme has become an important channel for the University to show appreciation to staff members and motivate them to excel in their work performance. This year, the award scheme has been restructured to a two-tier system to give recognition to a wider representation of staff members. A total of 83 staff members were honoured, including those who received the individual and team awards.
Under the new system, all nominations were first submitted to the selection panels of the Faculty Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. The best among the awardees were then shortlisted and recommended for the President's Awards. As a result, among the fifteen individuals and seven teams selected in the first tier, five individuals were chosen as the final winners for the President's Awards. They are:
Teaching:
Ms Julia Chen - Lecturer, English Language Centre 
Mr Steve Frankland - Associate Head and Associate Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Research and Scholarly Activities:
Dr Niu Jianlei - Associate Professor, Department of Building Services Engineering 
Services:
Prof. Thomas Wong K.S. Wong - Chair Professor and Head, School of Nursing 
Overall Contribution:
Ir K.K. Lo - Scientific Officer I, Department of Mechanical Engineering 
In addition, special Certificates of Appreciation were presented during the ceremony. They were presented in appreciation of staff members who had helped the community fight against SARS earlier this year, and who had been involved in the work of the organizing committee and contributed towards the formation of the record-breaking "Human Rainbow". The event was organized last October in commemoration of the University's 65th Anniversary. The University has successfully gathered 11,273 staff, students and alumni to form the largest Human Rainbow in the world which is recognized by the Guinness World Records.
