
[date]2010.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for JUPAS applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be holding a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2010/11 full-time UGC-funded degree and sub-degree programmes on campus this Saturday, 22 May.
The Consultation Day will provide an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) applicants to obtain updated information on PolyU programmes. As applicants are allowed to reprioritize and/or put in additional programme choices before the deadline of 24 May 2010, this Consultation Day will help them finalize their decision before the JUPAS deadline.
During the Consultation Day, various academic departments will offer consultation sessions, exhibitions, information seminars, and guided visits. Apart from addressing concerns and advising the JUPAS applicants the strategy for programme selection, staff of Academic Secretariat will provide information on the calculation of admission scores and the availability of scholarships. In addition, Student Ambassadors will share their experiences of programme selection and study placements. A special talk on interview skills will be conducted and Student Ambassadors will do mock admission interviews with interested students.
PolyU is well-known for the practicality of its programmes. It offers a wide range of programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma and Bachelor's Degree to Master's and Doctoral Degrees. Amongst all UGC-funded universities, PolyU is the only one which offers undergraduate programmes in the areas of design, engineering physics, environmental and sustainable development, fashion and textiles, geomatics, international shipping and transport logistics, medical laboratory science, occupational therapy, optometry, physiotherapy and radiography.
In the 2010/11 academic year, the University will offer a total of 68 UGC-funded full-time programmes based on HKALE entry, including 50 at degree and 18 at sub-degree levels.
In line with the objective of promoting all-round education, PolyU will continue to implement the "Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations", "Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme" and "Non-Academic Achievements Self Recommendation Scheme" this year. To award students with outstanding academic or non-academic achievements, various scholarship schemes are available, for more details, please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/scholarships/.
The Hong Kong Community College (HKCC), an affiliate of PolyU, will also join the Consultation Day to provide information on self-financed Associate Degree Programmes and Higher Diploma Programmes for secondary seven students and other interested parties. HKCC will accept applications and conduct interviews on the spot.
Further information on the Consultation Day can be found at the PolyU website: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday2010.
Press Invitation
Members of the media are cordially invited to attend and cover the event. Details are as follows:
Date: 22 May 2010 (Saturday)Time: 1:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.Venue: PolyU Campus
 If typhoon signal no. 8 (or above) or rainstorm black warning is in force at 9:00 a.m. on the day, the event will be rescheduled to 23 May 2010 (Sunday).
