
[date]2010.03.16[/date]
[title]PolyU appoints new member to the Independent Review Panel [/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today announced that Mr Daniel Yu, Chairman and Co-founder of AsiaSoft Company Limited, has been invited to replace Mr Vincent To as a member of the Independent Review Panel set up on 10 March. The Panel will soon commence their work to review the operation of PolyU's subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities; and their relationships with various University bodies, with a view to developing a more robust mechanism for managing these entities for the long term benefits of the University.Mr Yu was a Certified Internal Auditor in USA. Prior to founding AsiaSoft Company Limited, he joined Sun Microsystems Corporate Headquarters in 1985 and had been President of Sun Microsystems Greater China from 1994 to 2007. Before joining Sun, Mr Yu held a variety of management positions for various Fortune 100 companies, such as Apple Computer and Ford Motor Company. Since 2000, he served as the Board of Directors of the Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute for six years. At the time when Mr Vincent To was invited to serve on the Independent Review Panel, the University was not aware that W.K. To &amp; Co Solicitors had acted for the listed company Eco-Tek and requested Dr Fernando Cheung Chiu-hung to make clarification and an apology with regard to his open letter. Mr To was to participate in the work of the panel in his personal capacity and hence the incident would not have any impact on his work. However, since "Dr Fernando Cheung Chiu-hung and a group of staff caring for PolyU's development" expressed concern about his appointment, Mr To decided to withdraw in order not to undermine the credibility of the panel. The University has to take and respect Mr To's decision.
Dr York Liao MBE, currently Chairman of Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications, assumes the Chairmanship of the Independent Review Panel. Another member of the panel is Mr Andrew Lo, Managing Director at China Renaissance Capital investment.                         
Currently, PolyU has investment and/or interest in 22 subsidiaries, 9 associates and 7 jointly controlled entities. They were set up to run a wide variety of business, ranging from the provision of professional consultancy services to developing and marketing new technologies and new products.
The Independent Review Panel is expected to furnish the University Council and management with a report in three months' time.
