
[date]2010.04.10[/date]
[title]PolyU and Zheng Sheng College jointly present survey findings[/title]
A recent survey revealed that while drug abuse has become a common problem in local schools, students cannot get enough correct drug knowledge from the formal curriculum. There is a need to further enhance anti-drug education in Hong Kong.
The study was carried out by Professor Daniel Shek, Chair Professor of Applied Social Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Dr Chan Siu-cheuk, Principal of Christian Zheng Sheng College in the spring and summer months of 2009 with a view to further understanding drug abuse in school campus. The study focused on the consumption, selling and buying activities of illicit drugs in school campus as well as the views of young drug abusers on anti-drug and life skills education in the formal curriculum.
The data of the study were collected from 443 participants recruited from three counselling centres for psychotropic substances abusers and nine residential drug treatment centres.
The major findings of this study are highlighted as follows:
Nearly half of the respondents said that they had abused drug in school campus. There were 129 schools with students abusing drugs in the campus, including 109 secondary schools, four primary schools and four special schools.
Sixty six respondents (14.9%) indicated that they had sold illicit drugs in their schools. There were 53 schools with students selling drugs in school campus, including 50 secondary schools, one primary school and two special schools.
Seventy-two respondents (16.3%) indicated that they had bought illicit drugs in their schools. There were 52 schools with students buying drugs in school campus, including 49 secondary schools, two primary schools and one special school.
Ketamine, Ecstasy, cannabis and "pills" were popular drugs consumed, sold and bought by students in the campus.
Many students began abusing drugs at age 13 (73 students) and age 14 (104 students). The lowest age of first abuse was 10 years of age.
While most of the respondents believed that young people should acquire correct drug knowledge, over half of them felt that they did not get enough correct drug knowledge from the formal curriculum.
While most of the respondents believed that young people should have life skills education, over half of them felt that they did not get enough life skills education from the formal curriculum.
Dr Chan Siu-cheuk said, "The widespread nature of adolescent substance abuse deserves our attention. Besides looking at student drug abuse, we should also pay attention to the selling and buying of drugs in the campus."
Professor Daniel Shek said, "While most respondents believed in the importance of acquiring correct drug knowledge, they did not feel that they got enough correct knowledge. The issue of how we can provide systematic anti-drug education to students should be further explored."
He added, "Life skills education is rather unsystematic in primary and secondary schools and there is a lack of effective programs and curriculum hours. There is also a need to include life skills education in university general education courses."
