
[date]2004.01.08[/date]
[title]PolyU releases research findings on "Golf and Balance Control"[/title]
The knee joint sense of experienced elderly golfers and Tai Chi practitioners and their balance control are just as good as young university students, according to the results of a recent study conducted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
The study was led by Prof. Christina Hui-Chan, Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences; and Assistant Professor Mr William Tsang. The result of this study will soon be published in the authoritative journal Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise in April 2004.
In explaining the research findings, Prof. Hui-Chan said: "Playing golf involves concentration of mind as well as precise and co-ordinated body movements. As golfers are constantly shifting weight while performing various arm movements, the sport can help them improve joint position sense and balance control."
The one-year study was conducted on 11 elderly subjects with average 15 years of experience in playing golf; 12 Tai Chi practitioners with average 8 years of experience; 12 healthy elderly subjects as a control group; and 12 young university students. All participants were males.
Citing recent statistics on elderly health, Prof. Hui-Chan cautioned that one-third of elderly people over the age of 65 are prone to fall once a year, and the subsequent direct and indirect healthcare costs amounted to nearly US$10 billion a year in the US.
She concluded that practising golf and Tai Chi are good for the elderly people, as both exercises could improve their joint position sense and balance control significantly, making them less prone to fall and hurt themselves.
In 2001, Prof. Hui-Chan and her co-researcher also found that practising Tai Chi could effectively help the elderly to improve their balance control and knee joint sense. This previous study found that after practising Tai Chi intensively for two consecutive months, the elderly subjects were able to achieve better balance control in terms of less body sway and more smooth movements.
The golf and Tai Chi studies were both conducted under the auspices of PolyU's Centre for East-Meets-West in Rehabilitation Sciences, which has been designated by the University as an Area for Strategic Development with potential to move into a position of pre-eminence in Hong Kong and in the international arena.
