
[date]2010.04.26[/date]
[title]PolyU and Pok Oi Hospital join force to upgrade the level of TCM quality assessment[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Pok Oi Hospital for the collaboration in using PolyU-developed technology for setting up a Fingerprint Database of Traditional Chinese Medicines (TCMs) commonly found in Hong Kong.
The MoU was signed by Mr WONG Fan-foung, Chairman of Pok Oi Hospital and Professor Philip C. H. CHAN, Deputy President and Provost of PolyU at the inauguration of the Hospital's 61st Board of Directors. Under this MoU, both parties would work together for the development of an effective fingerprint database for common Hong Kong TCMs in response to public health and community needs.
Invented by the research team of Professor Chau Foo-tim of PolyU Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, the fingerprint analysis technology works on the basis of Chemical Resolution Method (CRM) and Multi-component Spectral Correlative Chromatography (MSCC). This breakthrough can give the universal fingerprint of a chemical mixture. This is very helpful for scientists working in different laboratories to exchange valuable information of complicated system like TCM. In addition, as much more ingredients are involved, it provides a more detail look on the chemical and biochemical composition compared to other methods. The techniques thus developed can be applied for the analysis of the chemical composition and marker components of TCMs and other herbal formulation.
Professor Chau was honoured for his breakthrough in CRM Fingerprint Technology with a Silver Award in the 14th China National Exhibition of Inventions in October 2003. His MSCC Fingerprint Technology also won a Bronze Award in the 54th World Exhibition on Innovation, Research and New Technology in Belgium in November 2005.
Making use of these fingerprint technologies, PolyU researchers are looking into many Chinese medicinal herbs, compound formulae and related natural products. Over the years, they have helped more than 40 mainland manufacturers to give chromatographic fingerprints of their Chinese medicine products for meeting the requirements of State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) of China. The team is also working with Department of Health (DoH) of HKSAR in setting the standards for some commonly used TCMs.
Pok Oi Hospital has been providing Chinese Medicine Services to the public ever since its establishment in 1919. A range of Chinese Medical Services served dedicatedly to providing professional and reliable Chinese Medicine services to the community while offering special assistance to the elderly and those under-privileged. For more details of their services, please visit www.pokoi.org.hk.
