
[date]2010.04.28[/date]
[title]Stanford scholar speaks on language changes at PolyU[/title]
The Faculty of Humanities of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has invited world-renowned scholar Professor Elizabeth Traugott, Professor Emeritus of Linguistic and English at the Stanford University, United States, to give a talk at the PolyU Humanities Lecture Series on the campus today (28 April).
Entitled "Seeking evidence for interaction as a motivation for language change", the lecture was attended by PolyU staff, students and guests. Professor Traugott introduced the origin of language change and language variation. Language change occurs not only in spoken interaction but also in written historical texts where interactional negotiation is the motivating factor in change. She reinforced her argument by introducing the trial practices and the publications of the 17th and the 18th centuries in the United Kingdom and the United States, which are considered the best source for linguistic work. The "Proceedings of the Old Bailey 1674-1834" provided examples of largely informal speech representation in the texts and discuss two interactional change-scenarios that the trials illustrate well - turn taking and contesting.
A professional scholar in Linguistics and English, Professor Traugott is a longtime researcher on historical syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, lexicalization, socio-historical linguistics, and linguistics and literature. At present, she is the Professor Emeritus of Linguistic and English at the Stanford University, USA, and has been an American Council of Learned Societies Fellow, a Guggenheim Fellow, a fellow at the Centre for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She is the President of International Society for the Linguistics of English; and was President of Linguistic Society of America, and President of International Society for Historical Linguistics.
Indeed, language change is change in use by both speakers and hearers. Although particular form-meaning pairings and social practices may change, today's discourse practices and variation are also the product of the past. However, we cannot reliably project the present onto the past, nor the past into the present, although we can make good testable hypotheses about the relationship between the linguistic present and past.
