
[date]2010.06.09[/date]
[title]Engineering talents unleash creativity in robotic competition[/title]
The Seventh Robotic Project Competition and the Interactive Game Design Competition held by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Electronic and Information Engineering (EIE) on the PolyU campus today (9 June) saw a vigorous display of engineering talents in robot related activities and interactive game designs.
The fun-filled event consists of two parts. For the first part (Robotic Project Competition), nine teams of second-year engineering students are required to compose and programme an autonomous machine, the 'RoboGolfer', to search for randomly placed ping pong balls in the game field and shoot them into cylindrical buckets. The championship goes to the team whose RoboGolfer can successfully shoot more balls into the buckets within a time limit.
The second part of the event is an Interactive Game Design Competition sponsored by Sengital Limited. Students are required to design computer games that combine 3D graphics and live video. By wearing a head mount display to fully immerse in the game environment and through an advanced body motion tracking system, the motions of the players are detected for controlling the movement of the game characters.
In addressing the participants and the audience, Dr Kenneth Lam, Associate Professor and Associate Head of EIE, said, 'This competition serve as a platform for our undergraduates to enhance their creativity, technical skills and problem-solving ability, and provides a good opportunity for them to share their learning experience with fellow classmates.'
The competitions are part of EIE's innovative effort in providing outcome-based learning experience to students through integrated projects, in which students are required to apply knowledge already learned in different subject areas to address a practical problem.
EIE offers full-time and part-time taught courses of four broad technical areas, namely, Multimedia and Signal Processing, Computer and Intelligent Systems, Circuits and Microelectronics, and Communications Engineering, at levels ranging from undergraduate to doctoral level.
 
