
[date]2010.07.14[/date]
[title]Convergence of European and Chinese Ideas achieved at China-Europa Forum[/title]
Influential leaders and thinkers from Chinese and European societies have exchanged ideas on a wide range of issues of common interest to both societies at the third Biennial Conference of the China-Europa Forum, which was being held for the very first time in Hong Kong on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 12 to 14 July.
The three-day Conference is themed on "Converse to Converge: Forging a Common Vision for Chinese and European Societies". It has concluded in the afternoon today (14 July) with a summary of evaluation and reflection on more than 60 workshops by Mr Pierre Calame, President of the China-Europa Forum Foundation; followed by closing speeches of VIPs from both societies.
From Europe, Dr Gerhard Stahl, Secretary General of the Regional Committee of European Union will deliver his closing address. From China, Mr Ye Xiaowen, Party Secretary and Vice President of the Central Institute of Socialism will address the occasion. And from Hong Kong, Dr Patrick Ho will speak in his capacity as President of the Asia Cultural Forum.
The conference was opened on 12 July and Mr John Tsang, Financial Secretary of the HKSAR Government, was the Guest of Honour. It featured an impressive list of European and Chinese VIP's coming from both societies, including a keynote speech by Professor Cheng Siwei, former Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress; and another keynote speech by Mr Michel Rocard, former Prime Minister of France.
This large-scale international conference has drawn nearly 700 participants from all over China and Europe, including senior government officials, political leaders, renowned academics and influential thinkers. The Forum aims to bridge the Chinese and European societies by sharing knowledge and experiences; to take common challenges for the development of a legitimate, democratic and efficient global community; to make joint efforts for the global governance founded on bilateral, plurilateral or multilateral dialogues amongst major regional entities, with the view of ensuring a harmonious and peaceful world in solidarity.
The Conference is jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Renmin University of China, the China-Europa Forum Foundation and the Asian Cultural Forum, and supported by the Charles Léopold Mayer Foundation for Human Progress, the Fok Ying Tong Foundation, Office of the European Union in Hong Kong and Macau, the Home Affairs Bureau and the Central Policy Unit of the HKSAR Government, the Municipal Government of Sichuan Province; and the China Energy Fund Committee.
During the three-day Conference, Chinese and European participants were grouped under nine themes, four common challenges and 60 groups to discuss on a wide range of issues which are of common interest to both Chinese and European societies. For further details about the China-Europa Forum, please click on its official website at URL: http://www.china-europa-forum.net/.
