
[date]2010.06.16[/date]
[title]PolyU-Shun Power Chinese Opera Charity Night[/title]
The PolyU-Shun Power Chinese Opera Charity Night is scheduled for 25 June 2010 (Friday) at Sunbeam Theatre to raise fund for The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Former Yan Oi Tong Chairperson Mrs Corona Cheuk has been invited to chair the organizing committee of the charity show.
PolyU alumnus Mr William Sin Wai-chung, President of Shun Power Hong Kong Ltd., also shows great support to this charitable event for serving as title sponsor. An ardent supporter of the University, Mr Sin encourages other PolyU alumni and community leaders to support the development of Cantonese opera as well as higher education in Hong Kong.
Under the chairmanship of Mrs Corona Cheuk, the show is organized by a committee comprising prominent business and community leaders who are all lovers of Cantonese Opera. Mrs Cheuk said she is delighted to join force with PolyU to organize the PolyU-Shun Power Chinese Opera Charity Night as this meaningful event serves the dual purpose of promoting Cantonese Opera in the community and raising funds for PolyU.
Apart from going on stage herself, Mrs Cheuk has invited her opera teacher Ms Wan Fai-yin (尹飛燕女士) , a leading diva in Cantonese Opera, to perform "Butterfly and Red Pear Blossom". Other exciting programmes include the humorous tale "A Bachelor's Love Affair", and the familiar tunes of "The Reunion at the Nunnery". An excerpt from "Love and War" will also be performed. Other Cantonese Opera artists include Ms Wai Chun-ying (衛駿英女士) and Ms Emily Chan (陳詠儀女士).
In addition, exhibition showcasing archival materials in relation to Chinese Opera will take place at Sunbeam Theatre before the show. The exhibition will help to enhance Chinese Opera fans' knowledge and appreciation of the aesthetic Chinese traditional art form.
The net proceeds generated from the show will support the construction of the new student hostel which offers 1,650 hostel places to cope with the increased number of students and their accommodation needs arising from the four-year curriculum.
For ticket sales enquiries, please contact the PolyU Alumni Affairs and Development Office at 2766 4787.
