
[date]2010.08.31[/date]
[title]Pre-term Common Orientation Programme for PolyU freshmen[/title]
Over 5,000 first-year students are having an opportunity to meet with academic staff and fellow students and enjoy a range of activities at the first pre-term Common Orientation Programme staged by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 24 August to 1 September.
Supported by all faculties/schools, academic departments and Student Affairs Office, this large-scale faculty/school-based orientation programme seeks to help freshmen to aim high for their university study and learn the keys leading to a meaningful and rewarding university life.
The one-day orientation programme of individual faculty/school starts with a welcome ceremony hosted by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. It is followed by an inspirational talk given by speakers who are distinguished in their professional fields. Speakers include Mr Lam Chiu-ying, former Director of the Hong Kong Observatory, and Ms Audrey Eu, Senior Counsel and Legislative Councillor, to name but a few. The Student Affairs Office also puts on a special programme featuring success story sharing by outstanding students and Taekwondo and dance performances.
Professor Tong extends a warm welcome to the freshmen at the ceremony. In his welcoming address, he said, "Our world is changing fast and our students need to have an education that prepares them to anticipate the future needs of society and to solve newly emerging challenges. I urge you to make full use of the abundant opportunities available in the University to turn yourselves into practical dreamers. I have high hopes that you will graduate from PolyU not only with a wealth of knowledge and skills, but also wisdom and virtues."
The new academic year sees the admission of some 4,300 students funded by the University Grants Committee, including 2,385 Bachelor's degree and 1,910 higher diploma students. Close to 88 per cent of the undergraduate students who are admitted via the Joint University Programmes Admission Scheme (JUPAS) have chosen PolyU programmes as their Band A choices. In addition, there are about 530 self-financed full-time students enrolled in the degree programmes.
There are also 241 Chinese mainland students joining the foundation programme this year. PolyU received about 4,200 applications from mainland students. Among them, nearly 90 per cent have met the entrance requirements of state key universities. The majority of them came from Beijing, Guangdong and Liaoning.
At postgraduate level, PolyU received about 5,130 applications from non-local students this year, a 50 per cent increase compared to last year. The University has admitted some 800 non-local and 2,610 local students for its taught postgraduate programmes covering a diverse range of disciplines.  
In addition, the University has admitted about 60 international students from 22 countries and territories, including Bangladesh, Canada, Denmark, Ecuador, Germany, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Norway, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Taiwan, Turkey, UK and Vietnam. They will pursue their Bachelor's degree studies in different professional-oriented programmes offered by the University.
In recognition of their academic or non-academic achievements, PolyU has awarded scholarships to 107 students. They include 40 local students who have achieved excellent results in the Advanced Level Examinations or outstanding performances in non-academic areas by international standards; 45 mainland students who excelled in the Mainland Joint Entrance Examination; and 22 international students. Different levels of scholarships, including a waiver of tuition fee, or plus a living allowance, have been granted to these students basing on their academic or non-academic achievements.
With an emphasis on the all-round development of students, PolyU also considers students' non-academic performances in its admission exercise. This year, 55 students are admitted to the University via the Outstanding Sportsman Recommendation Scheme, 55 through the JUPAS Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations Scheme, and 1,305 through the Self Recommendation Scheme.
Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU's Student Exchange Programme offers students opportunities to study and experience a different culture at about 200 renowned universities across more than 25 countries and regions. In line with the University's Strategic Plan to help develop the global outlook of students and encourage cross-cultural exchange, the University targets to receive 550 international students and send forth an equivalent number of its students abroad for exchange every year.
Currently, around 200 students from 17 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
