
[date]2010.06.18[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes workshops for relief workers in Qinghai[/title]
In response to the needs in social services and care support after the earthquake in Qinghai Yushu, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Applied Social Sciences and School of Nursing, together with representatives of the China Association for Social Work Education, Qinghai Normal University and Qinghai Social Work Association, jointly organized a series of workshops to train local volunteers. The School of Nursing, with the support of Huaxi Hospital of Sichuan University, organized another seminar at People's Hospital in Qinghai Province to train local medical practitioners.
Supported by the Hong Kong Women Professionals and Entrepreneurs Association, the workshops and seminar were held in Xining City of Qinghai Province from 2 to 6 June 2010. More than 200 teacher and student volunteers and representatives of non-governmental organizations, and some 200 medical and nurse practitioners attended the workshops.
PolyU has been very active in the provision of post-disaster assistance and reconstruction work. The team of teachers providing training in the Qinghai workshops and seminar has also supported the reconstruction of 512 Wenchuan quake, and they have accumulated much valuable experience in both the theory and practical aspects. These experiences are important reference to service providers in Qinghai.
Speakers include: Dr Ku Hok-bun, Associate Professor, Dr Timothy Sim, Assistant Professor, Ms Eliza Ip, Senior Clinical Associate, and Ms Fok Siu-ling, Instructor of the Department of Applied Social Sciences; Ms Sunshine Chan, Nurse Consultant, Dr Li Sijian, Lecturer, and Ms Annie Yip, Senior Clinical Associate of the School of Nursing; Dr Cheng Yujuan and Ms Hu Xiuying, Associate Professor, Huaxi Hospital of Sichuan University. They all shared their experiences of delivering post-quake social services and nursing in Wenchuan.
Soon after the earthquake in Qinghai Yushu, PolyU members showed their care for the victims by actively responding to the campus-wide fundraising campaign for the earthquake, and nearly $330,000 was raised within a month. The donation was forwarded to the Qinghai Government via the Central Government's Liaison Office in Hong Kong SAR.
