
[date]2010.09.11[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold 18th Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, held its Eighteenth Congregation today (11 September) on the PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated by Professor Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of Warwick Manufacturing Group and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. The Honorable Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, Legislative Councillor, was the Guest of Honour. This year, the Congregation saluted a total of 60 graduates.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong congratulated both the graduates on their successful completion of the programme and the Warwick Manufacturing Group on its 30th Anniversary. He said, "With a focus on equipping students with the latest management and technology concepts through practical case studies, the programme has nurtured a significant pool of versatile and talented professionals since its inception. I am confident that our graduates will continue to make the best use of the knowledge and expertise acquired through the programme, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of society and the world." During the ceremony, Ir Dr Angus Cheung, Chief Executive Officer of China Aircraft Services Limited, Ir Dr Lo Wai-kwok, Deputy Chairman &amp; Managing Director of Surface Mount Technology (Holding) Limited, and Dr Chan Yuk-kau, Managing Director of SBTI (Hong Kong) Limited, were re-appointed Industrial Fellows of the University of Warwick.
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, leadership and excellence, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management and advanced manufacturing technique.
