
[date]2010.11.07[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni contribute to promoting a greener Hong Kong[/title]
More than 1,000 alumni of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and their friends and family members planted more than 5,000 shrubs and saplings at North District Park today (7 November) to help promoting a greener Hong Kong.
Jointly organized by PolyU, the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) and the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD), this annual event was kicked off by Mr Donald Choy Chi-mun, Assistant Director (Leisure Services) of LCSD; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Philip C.H. Chan, Deputy President and Provost; Mr Nicholas W. Yang, Executive Vice President; Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); Professor Kenneth Pang, FHKPUAA President; Ir Johnny Fan and Mr Alex Wong, FHKPUAA Vice Presidents.
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony, Professor Tong said, "Organized for the sixth year, this planting activity has gained strong support from our alumni and friends. The event not only helps to promote a greener living environment in Hong Kong, but also serves to educate our younger generation in environmental care and sustainable development."
Also supporting the green mission was "McMug", a popular cartoon character created by Ms Alice Mak Ka-pik, who is a design graduate of the University. Exhibition, game booths and stage performances were also staged by various supporting organizations. Towards the end of the event, board members of the FHKPUAA and the organizing committee sang together and brought the fun-filled event to a fruitful close.
This year, Super Trend Lighting Limited, Suga International Holdings Limited, as well as many alumni bodies of PolyU rendered their support to the event. Furthermore, Asia Pacific Catering Corporation Limited, Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Hong Kong) Limited and Hoi Tin Tong Company Limited have sponsored meal boxes, drinks and snacks for the participants. Part of the proceeds from the event will go to The Community Chest of Hong Kong.
The debut of the event, launched in November 2004, won Overall Category Grand Gold Medal and Gold Medal in the "Alumni Relations Programmes" category in the 2005 Circle of Excellence Awards organized by the US-based Council for Advancement and Support of Education. PolyU was the first local institution bestowed with such honour.
