
[date]2010.10.28[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the Chinese mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (28 October) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme". The ceremony was presided over by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. All the six distinguished scholars are either Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) or Members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE). They are: Professor Wang Weiqi, Chair Professor of Fudan University; Professor Wen Lan, Professor of Peking University; Professor Wu Peiheng, Director of the Research Institute of Superconductor Electronics, Nanjing University; Professor Du Shanyi, Professor of Harbin Institute of Technology; Professor Wu Shuoxian, Professor of South China University of Technology and Professor Lin Gao, Professor of Dalian University of Technology.
During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who are nominated by the University's academic departments, are presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on the PolyU campus. They also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics.
Professor Wang Weiqi, a medical equipment specialist, has made distinguished achievements in theories, methodologies, techniques, and applications of medical ultrasound and medical electronics. His major achievements include: a non-invasive system for evaluating pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary vascular resistance based on ultrasound and electrocardiogram. In China he is the first to introduce modern theories into prenatal medicine and to find new parameters that are sensitive. His tremendous contribution has earned him numerous awards, including Pioneer Award by the World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology, the Second-class National Science and Technology Invention Award, the Second-class Award of Guanghua Scientific and Technology Fund, the Second-class Scientific and Technology Progress Award by the Ministry of Education of China, and the Second-class Shanghai Science and Technology Progress Award (five times).
A specialist in dynamical systems, Professor Wen Lan is Professor of Peking University and has been visiting professor in universities and research institutes in the US, France, Russia, Brazil, Japan, Hong Kong and Taiwan. He has made important contributions to several fundamental problems such as the closing lemma, the connecting lemma, the stability conjecture, and the Palis density conjecture. Professor Wen had been in charge of major projects under the National Science Foundation and the national 973 project. He received the Chern Award and the Qiushi Award of Distinguished Young Scholars in 1997. He served as President of the Chinese Mathematical Society from 2003 to 2007 and is the editor of Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems in the US and a number of mainland academic journals.
Professor Wu Peiheng, an expert in superconductor electronics, is noted for his various achievements in high frequency (from microwave to terahertz wavebands) applications of superconducting electronic devices. He has explored the fundamental laws governing relevant physical processes, developed new superconducting electronic devices, and promoted their practical applications. Among the subjects, to which he has made important contributions are the tunneling process in high-temperature superconductors; the preparation, characterization and high frequency applications of various low- or high-temperature superconducting junctions. His research achievement has won him seven prestigious mainland scientific awards, including the National Science Congress Award, the Third-class National Natural Science Award, and the First-class Science and Technology Progress Award by the Ministry of Education. 
Professor Du Shanyi, an expert in mechanics and composite materials, has long been engaged in solving the key problems of new material manufacturing and application by using new theories and methods. He made great progress in the development of characterization and performance evaluation for composite materials and structures for special aircrafts. Professor Du's research team has also made a breakthrough on the measuring technology for mechanical properties, and the concept of "non-ablative" thermal protection materials has been proposed. The many awards received by Professor Du include the Second- and Third-class National Science and Technology Progress Award, the Second-class National Technological Innovation Award, and the Science and Technology Progress Award of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation.
Professor Wu Shuoxian, an expert in architectural acoustics, has accomplished acoustics design work for over 60 sports and performance halls. He has developed the acoustic virtual boundary theory, which proves to be a better solution to solve the problem of predicting traffic noise in a reverberation environment. He proposed new indicators and formula for rating sound level in concert halls, using fuzzy set theory for acoustics evaluation. He is the first person who put Chinese traditional musical instruments to systematic measurement for their sound level, and thus started the research of sound quality for Chinese ethnic music and opera halls. He established a theoretical system for subjective evaluation of built-up environment by carrying out research on build-up environment assessment methodology, human behaviour patterns and post-occupancy evaluation.
Professor Lin Gao, an expert in hydraulic engineering and earthquake engineering, currently leads a research team in Hydraulic Structure Engineering of the Dalian University of Technology. His research interest is related to the seismic evaluation of engineering structures such as dams and nuclear power plants. His research findings have been adopted in seismic safety evaluation of more than ten important dams and solved relevant key technical problems. After decades of persistent research work, Professor Lin has become a renowned expert in the fields of the theory and experimental technology for seismic analysis of engineering structures and underground structures, dynamic properties and constitutive relation of concrete, nonlinear analysis and simulation of damage process of concrete dams subjected to earthquake loading, and seismic safety evaluation of dams. Among his numerous awards are the First Class National Science and Technology Progress Award and the Second-class National Teaching Excellence Award.
