
[date]2010.06.15[/date]
[title]PolyU and HKSAR Government Join Hands to Promote Knowledge Management[/title]
With the support from the Efficiency Unit of HKSAR Government, The Hong Kong Knowledge Management Society, The Knowledge Management Development Centre and The Hong Kong Council of Social Services, the Knowledge Management Research Centre of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently organized a Forum on Knowledge Management in Government.
Officiated by Mr. Nicolas W. Yang, the  Executive Vice President of PolyU, Dr. the Honourable Samson Tam, JP, member of Legislative Council and Mr. Kim Salkeld, Head of the Efficiency Unit of the HKSAR Government, the Forum provided a platform for the sharing of practices and experiences in relation to Knowledge Management in the local and overseas context.  Speakers of the Forum included Ms. Kit Lykketoft, Project Manager of Mind Lab, Denmark; Ms. Jacqueline Rees, Head of Knowledge Management and Chief Knowledge Officer, HM Treasury, Government of United Kingdom; Mr. Kan Siew Ning, Director of Technology, Singapore Police Force, Government of Singapore; Mr. Stephen Selby, Director of Intellectual Property Department; Mr. Dominic Leung, Deputy Commissioner of Census and Statistics Department; Mr. Cheung Siu Sing, Senior Systems Manager Human Resources &amp; Professional Development, Office of Government Chief Information Officer and Dr. Stephenie Liu, Senior Medical and Health Officer, Child Assessment Services of Department of Health.
According to the organizer, Knowledge Management is on the agenda of government worldwide. Today, civil servants and government agencies are facing complex social-economical-technological environment and information overload.  Therefore, effective knowledge management is essential to enhance the organizational intelligence for better decision-making and the delivery of high quality services.
Sponsored by Microsoft®, this event held on 11 June 2010 was the first of its kinds in Hong Kong and has attracted more than 100 participants with the majority coming from the government sector including the Judiciary and more than 20 government departments under the Education Bureau, Food and Health Bureau, Labour and Welfare Bureau, Security Bureau, Commerce and Economic Development Bureau, Development Bureau and the Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau.
A pre-forum workshop was also held among the speakers to explore various issues including the implementation of Knowledge Management in government sectors, its hurdles and the challenges.  The finding will be complied into a report and circulated to interested parties.
