
[date]2010.08.05[/date]
[title]Secondary students discover the wonders of health and human services at PolyU[/title]
About 70 secondary six students are gathering on The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus for a five-day Mini-U Programme organized by The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) from 2 to 6 August 2010. The students came from 38 local secondary schools and international schools.
The FHSS Mini-U Programme, now in its second year, aims at helping sixth formers explore the multi-faceted dimension of allied health and human services. Through a wide range of activities organized by FHSS's constituent departments and schools, students not only gained deeper understanding of various disciplines and professions, but also better insights on planning for future studies and careers.
During the five-day programme, the participating students could attend any introductory lectures of their choice on Biomedical Engineering, Medical Laboratory Science, Nursing, Optometry, Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Social Work, Social Policy and Administration, and Veterinary Nursing. The lectures gave the participants an overview of these academic programmes and career prospects. Clinical and laboratory practices under the close supervision of faculty members were also arranged.
Other activities included guided visits to the faculty's laboratories, clinics and research centres and a workshop on infection control. A talk on preparing for further studies and career development that best suits one's personal interest and ability was given by Dr Chui Yat-hung, Lecturer of the Department of Applied Social Sciences. FHSS student ambassadors who assisted in the running of the Programme also shared their campus life experiences with the participants.
In addition, the students were given the opportunity to stay overnight at PolyU's Halls of Residence to get a taste of university life. They said that the Mini-U Programme, which was informative and inspiring, could help them identify their future study path as they gained deeper understanding of various health and social care professions.
A High Table Dinner was held tonight (5 August) for the Mini-U participants, joined by faculty members and student ambassadors. The dinner was graced by the presence of Mr Shane Solomon, Chief Executive of the Hospital Authority, Professor Felice Lieh-Mak, Chairman of the Medical Council of Hong Kong, Professor Leung Nai-kong, Chairman of the Supplementary Medical Professions Council, and Professor Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development). All the participants were inspired by their sharing and had an enjoyable evening.
