
[date]2010.10.27[/date]
[title]Songbird Miriam Yeung stages Mini Concert for FHSS students[/title]
Famous artiste Miss Miriam Yeung today (27 October) shared her music with university students at a Mini Concert held at the Suen Chi Sun Memorial Plaza of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). She was also re-appointed as Honorary Fellow by PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) on this occasion.
FHSS first appointed Miss Miriam Yeung as Honorary Fellow in 2007 to give recognition for her persistent efforts and long-standing commitment to the community services. A former registered nurse in the Princess Margaret Hospital, Miss Yeung has set a fine example for youngsters by actively participating in community services and charitable events. She came to PolyU to show her support and encourage students to actively engage in community services with their professional expertise.
Miss Miriam Yeung sang with FHSS students at the Mini Concert which aimed to encourage students to actively participate in community services and show their care to the world. Guests were invited to participate in a lighting gimmick, which symbolised FHSS fellows would dedicate their expertise to the communities in need and brighten up their lives.
Speaking at the occasion, Professor George Woo, Dean of FHSS said, "We are dedicated to nurturing future leaders in health and social sciences. Our faculty attaches great importance to professional training for students and devotes much resource to broaden their international horizons. We strive to provide opportunities for students to put theories into practice and cope with challenges. Through serving the community, our students will understand more about the real world and their own potential. It will hone their problem-solving ability and improve their communication skills. More importantly, it would instill our students with a strong sense of social responsibility. All these are key attributes for their future success."
FHSS Honorary Fellow Miss Miriam Yeung also encouraged PolyU students to adopt a positive outlook for life and be committed to serving others.
On the same occasion, a cheque presentation ceremony was held to acknowledge a generous donation of HK$300,000 from Mr. Peter Lam, Chairman of East Asia Music (Holdings) Limited at the event. The donation would go to FHSS Student Development Fund which enables faculty students for more exposures and opportunities in serving local, mainland and overseas communities and participation in student development.
FHSS comprises five constituents units, namely the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Department of Health Technology and Informatics, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Nursing and School of Optometry. A key objective of FHSS is to groom quality health science and human services practitioners who are caring, competent professionals in practice and critical thinkers of theory, as embodied by its motto "Nurturing future leaders in health and social sciences".
