
[date]2010.10.13[/date]
[title]PolyU plays host to the Second Primary Eye Care Conference[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Association of Private Practice Optometrists together with the School of Optometry of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Second Primary Eye Care Conference has attracted more than 220 participants to the university campus.
The two-day conference was opened today (13 October) by Professor Gabriel M. Leung, Under Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government; Mr Patrick Cheng, President of The Hong Kong Association of Private Practice Optometrists; Ms Queenie Yip, Organizing Committee Chair; and Professor Carly Lam, Head of PolyU's School of Optometry.
With its theme on diabetes mellitus, the conference has brought together many leading experts to present their latest research findings. It has also provided a platform for demonstrating the interdisciplinary care among diabetologist, diabetic nurse, family medicine practitioner, ophthalmologist and optometrist for successful management of diabetic patients.
In his presentation on the first day of the conference, renowned ophthalmologist Professor David Wong, Honorary Professor of PolyU's School of Optometry, said an effective diabetes retinopathy screening and timely treatment could greatly prevent visual loss from diabetic retinopathy. It called for the government, professions and universities to work together to ensure the quality of screening programme. In addition, he showed a model of quality control of grading the fundus photographs by involving different professionals.
On the second day, Miss Rita Sum, Optometrist of PolyU's School of Optometry, would compare different diabetic retinopathy grading systems commonly used in the UK and demonstrate how grading is performed and some commonly encountered problems.
Another highlight of this year's conference is a study on the comparison of the prevalence of ocular disorders in 1,058 patients who have and have not undergone a retinal examination since being diagnosed with Type II Diabetes Mellitus.
Miss Mavis Fung, Optometrist of PolyU's School of Optometry, found that over 60 percent of patients with Type II Diabetes Mellitus for one year or longer did not have a retinal assessment since confirmed diagnosis. The risk of developing sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy appears to be higher for those who do not have a retinal assessment.
Miss Fung also studied the prevalence of visual impairment in a Hong Kong diabetic population to ascertain what proportion of the visual impairment could be corrected with prescription. Among the 2,301 patients, nearly 70 percent of their visual impairment could be remedied by a spectacle correction and thus have their quality of life improved.
