
[date]2010.10.31[/date]
[title]PolyU wins industry’s support to advance cutting-edge technology[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Industrial Centre (IC) has recently joined hands with Bosch Rexroth, one of the world's leading specialists in the field of drive and control technologies for industrial automation, to set up the German company's first Train the Trainer (TTT) Centre in Greater China.
Both parties hailed this milestone at a special ceremony held earlier on the university campus. The Letter of Intent which marked the collaboration was signed by Mr Peter Gorzyza, Director of Bosch Rexroth Drive and Control Academy, Mr Lau Fo-wai, General Manager of Bosch Rexroth (China) Ltd; and Ir Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development).
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Peter Gorzyza, Director of Bosch Rexroth Drive and Control Academy, said: "PolyU is renowned for its close relationship with the industry. Its IC also has rich experience in training the trainers from the Chinese mainland. We believe the setting up of a TTT Centre at PolyU IC can benefit the higher education sector, industry and community by elevating and enhancing the knowledge and skills in the application of automation technology,"
The new TTT Centre at PolyU IC aims to provide training for trainers from other universities in China which have established Didactics partnership with Bosch Rexroth.
Ir Professor Alex Wai welcomed this initiative. "We are glad that Bosch Rexroth has chosen us to be their education partner to establish the first and only TTT Centre for Industrial Automation in Greater China. The demand for automation technology is expected to reach its peak as factories on the Chinese mainland are all seeking means to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness. The TTT Centre will have a great and important impact on the industrial development of China," said Professor Wai.
At present more than 45 universities and colleges all over China have already established links with Bosch Rexroth in different areas of training of industrial applications. The TTT Centre at PolyU IC will become a focal point of providing train the trainer service to these universities and colleges.
PolyU IC enjoys a fruitful partnership with Bosch Rexroth and their first collaboration can be dated back to 2007 when IC became Hong Kong's first "Bosch Rexroth Knowledge Partner". In 2009, Bosch Rexroth further offered two scholarships each amounted to RMB 10,000 to IC trainees for three consecutive years. Before the set up of a TTT Centre, Bosch Rexroth also supplied the PolyU IC with equipments in drives and controls, pneumatics, hydraulics and mechatronics.
Bosch Rexroth is one of the world's leading specialists in the field of drive and control technologies. Under the brand name of Rexroth the company supplies more than 500,000 customers with tailored solutions for driving, controlling and moving. As The Drive &amp; Control Company, Bosch Rexroth develops, produces and sells components and systems in more than 80 countries in the technology fields Electric Drives and Controls, Industrial Hydraulics, Mobile Hydraulics, Linear Technology, Assembly Technology and Pneumatics.
