
[date]2010.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU President sees 4-year undergraduate programme a unique opportunity to nurture "practical dreamers"[/title]
At the 16th Congregation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held today (3 November) on the university campus, University President Professor Timothy W. Tong called upon graduates to become "practical dreamers" who would contribute to the community as a whole, in Hong Kong and beyond the borders. He considered the implementation of a four-year university structure in 2012 as a golden chance to groom better students.
"By 'practical dreamers', they must be masters of their domain and yet well-versed in other disciplines, so that they are capable of solving complex problems and continuing to engage in self-learning. They also need to communicate effectively, as well as be creative, innovative and entrepreneurial," said Professor Tong. 
PolyU also seeks to cultivate students' global outlook and instill in them a positive attitude for life. Professor Tong said, "We show them how to see the big picture, and to bypass short-term thinking for a long-term perspective. It is vital that this generation has high ethical standards, a serving heart and a strong sense of social responsibility."
According to Professor Tong, the forthcoming paradigm shift to a four-year undergraduate programme will provide PolyU with a unique opportunity to transform its education from one based on a well-established professional-oriented curriculum to one built upon a new curriculum that will enable students to become "practical dreamers". With the advent of a four-year structure, the University will introduce Freshmen Seminar for students of new senior secondary curriculum, while the general education component and the reading and writing requirements will facilitate future PolyU students in building a solid foundation not just for their university education but also for their future.
Under the new curriculum, the University will implement a flexible admission system which allows some 20% of students to be admitted under the various broad disciplines and gives them freedom to decide on a specialized discipline after admission. More multi-disciplinary courses will be made available to cater for the needs of multi-disciplinary professionals in today's global economy.
On top of curriculum enhancement, PolyU is also actively engaged in cutting-edge research, which not only advances the frontiers of knowledge but also informs teaching. For instance, the findings of research in earnings management have enriched the content of accountancy courses, while research on green manufacturing and fibre optic sensor monitoring systems for railways provides engineering undergraduates with readily applicable knowledge.
Professor Tong also welcomed the Government's initiative to include education services as one of the six industries with the best chance of diversifying Hong Kong's economic base. In addition, he anticipated further collaboration between Hong Kong universities and its mainland counterparts in education and research after the signing of the "Framework Agreement on Hong Kong/Guangdong Co-operation" and the "Supplement VII to the Mainland and Hong Kong Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA)" in April and May this year.  "With these developments, PolyU will surely have a bigger role to play in the growth and advancement of not only Hong Kong but also the Chinese mainland and, in particular, the neighbouring Pearl River Delta. We will step up collaboration with our mainland counterparts in providing education programmes and establishing research facilities, as well as deepening our co-operation in high technology research, development and application," he said.
In closing, Professor Tong encouraged PolyU graduates to play a leading role in their own field, use their research skills and intellectual capability to be responsible and valuable citizens who are going to make a huge difference to Hong Kong and to the wider world outside.
