
[date]2010.11.08[/date]
[title]PolyU enhances internationalisation with 19 world renowned university chiefs, executives and entrepreneurs joining its newly set up International Advisory Board[/title]
With the support of 19 prominent leaders from the academia, professional communities and the business sector, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set up a high-level International Advisory Board (IAB) to further promote internationalisation.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong and Vice President (International and Executive Education) Professor Judy Tsui today (8 November) extended a very warm welcome to the Board Members, many of whom have made a special trip to join the inaugural meeting. A major highlight of the IAB inauguration was the keynote lunch talk by Dr Victor Fung, Group Chairman of Li &amp; Fung Limited, on the topic of "Pearl River Delta development and its implications", arranged exclusively for the Board Members.
Addressing the distinguished audience, Professor Tong said PolyU sought to further promote internationalisation of its programmes, staff and student bodies in its Strategic Plan. "The set up of IAB has provided a strong impetus for us to further promote internationalisation. We are truly grateful for the support of IAB members," he said.
His view is echoed by Vice President Professor Tsui, who added that PolyU has achieved great improvement in world ranking in recent years. This year PolyU moved up 29 places in the latest "QS World University Ranking" and is now ranked in the 166th place in the league table, as compared to 195th place in 2009. In another league table compiled by the Times Higher Education and Thomas Reuters, PolyU was ranked 149 in the world.
Chaired by Dr David C. Chang, Chancellor (Global Programmes) and President Emeritus of Polytechnic Institute of New York University in the US, the IAB has brought together 19 distinguished members, including Nobel Laureate Professor Robert A. Mundell and former Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Professor Cheng Siwei. On the academic side, the IAB saw a total of 12 university chiefs from the Chinese mainland and overseas. On the business side, the membership include Mr Christopher Cheng, Chairman of Wing Tai Properties Limited and Winsor Properties Holdings Limited, Hong Kong; Mrs Margaret Leung, Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive of Hang Seng Bank; Dr Simon Leung, Chairman and CEO of Microsoft Corporation in Greater China Region; Dr Wang Jianzhou, Chairman of China Mobile Communications Corporation; and internationally renowned fashion designer Ms Vivienne Tam. (Please refer to the Appendix for the full list of IAB membership.)
Professor Tong also expressed appreciation for the ardent support of alumni in promoting internationalisation, for Dr Wang Jianzhou is a DBA graduate of PolyU Graduate School of Business, and Ms Vivienne Tam is also an alumnus of PolyU in its polytechnic era. The IAB held its inaugural meeting in the afternoon on the university campus, followed by a Roundtable Discussion with PolyU's Academic Council on a wide range of topics relating to internationalisation. PolyU Council Chairman the Honorable Ms Marjorie Yang also hosted an appreciation dinner in honour of IAB Members.
Some Members also took the opportunity to attend the Knowledge Transfer Conference hosted by PolyU during their stay in Hong Kong.
