
[date]2010.06.25[/date]
[title]Technology Conference on Renewal Energy kicks off at PolyU[/title]
Jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Department of Engineering and Materials Sciences of National Natural Science Foundation of China, Beijing-Hong Kong Academic Exchange Centre, and Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation, the Technology Conference on Renewable Energy 2010 was officially kicked off today (25 June 2010) on the university campus. 
With the mission to promote knowledge exchange and foster partnership building among academia, government and industrial leaders, the Conference gave a high focus on the technological issues which energy and environmental professionals are most concerned about in promoting a low carbon society. The Conference has attracted hundreds of professionals, engineers, energy and environmental consultants who were eager to gain in-depth knowledge on the latest technologies related to renewable energy. 
The Opening Ceremony was officiated at by Mr. Wang Dongguang, Head of Department of Education and Technology, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong; Professor Ko Jan-ming, Vice President (Special Studies) of PolyU; and Mr Frank Chan, Deputy Director/Regulatory Services of the SAR Government's Electrical and Mechanical Services Department.
Professor Ko Jan-ming stressed during the opening ceremony the importance of developing and using of alternative and renewable energy to sustain growth, especially for the Greater China where every step in development will impact the world with formidable scale.
The ceremony was followed by two keynote presentations from the Academicians, namely Professor Xu Jianzhong of the Chinese Academy of Science and Professor C.C. Chan of Chinese Academy of Engineering featuring the key success factors for low-carbon technologies and technology on electric vehicles and smart grids respectively. Encircling the theme "Pathway to a Low Carbon Society", the Conference also featured close to 30 presentations in the areas of biomass and biofuel, solar technology, wind and hydro energy, solar and fuel cell technology.
The second day of the Conference will be held at the Charles K. Kao Auditorium at the Hong Kong Science Park on 26 June 2010 Saturday.
