
[date]2010.10.29[/date]
[title]PolyU takes the lead in studying children's sensory problems[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Rehabilitation Science and the Hong Kong Occupational Therapy Association have jointly conducted a five-year survey on children's sensory processing issues with 1,800 subjects.  Based on the results, researchers have developed a standardized assessment instrument known as the Chinese Sensory Profile (CSP). With this new tool, therapists could quickly screen children's sensory processing issues, and engage them with appropriate therapy when needed. The study sample comprised over 1,800 children aged between 2 and 14. The parent, teacher, or key caregiver of each child subject had completed a 100-item Chinese Sensory Profile (CSP) which assesses how far the child's brain is responding to channels of sensory stimuli. The CSP highlights potential issues in eight areas of sensory processing: auditory, visual, taste/smell, tactile, body position, movement, activity level, and emotional/social responses. 
Through the assessment, therapists could identify areas of under- and over-responsiveness in sensory processing of children. Therapists could then design suitable therapy programs or give recommendation on how to design a facilitative learning environment for children with different sensory processing issues.
Sensory processing dysfunction is commonly observed in children with delayed development, clumsiness, handwriting difficulties or delayed in responses to sensory stimuli.  Research showed that children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder, Pervasive Developmental Disorder, Attention Deficits and Hyperactivity Disorders or Specific Learning Difficulties tend to have a higher incidence of sensory processing disorder than other children.
From clinical practice, children with over-responsiveness to sound and touch may display excessive emotional or temper outburst in crowded areas. Over- or under- responsiveness to sensory stimulation, or sensory processing disorders, could hamper the learning of kids regardless of their intelligence or cognitive development.
Research has pointed out that sensory integrative therapy is effective in modulating the brain's responsiveness to sensory modalities. On top of therapy, parents or teachers could encourage children to participate in sensory integrative activities at home and in school. This would greatly facilitate children's early development in sensory processing.
