
[date]2010.09.27[/date]
[title]PolyU invites nominations for Outstanding Alumni Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) are jointly organizing the selection for "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" to accord public recognition to its distinguished graduates. Nominations for the selection are invited from now until 20 December 2010. 
Launched in late 1996, this biennial selection aims at honouring outstanding graduates of PolyU and its forerunners ' the Government Trade School, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Polytechnic ' for their distinguished professional accomplishments and significant contributions to the community and their alma mater. Over the years, PolyU and its forerunners have sent forth more than 290,000 graduates. A total of 44 distinguished alumni in various professions have been honoured in the past award selections and they are fine testimony of PolyU's accomplishments in nurturing professional talents for the community.
The seven-member Panel of Judges is chaired by The Honourable Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, Secretary for Labour and Welfare, Hong Kong SAR Government. Other members include: Mrs Yvonne Law Shing Mo-han, National Chief Knowledge Officer and Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu; Professor Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, President, Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; Dr David Y. K. Wong, President, The Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Mr Anthony T. Y. Wu, Chairman, Hospital Authority; Mrs Betty Yuen So Siu-mai, Vice Chairman, CLP Power Hong Kong Limited; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, President, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
All graduates of the Institution are eligible for nomination. Preliminary screening of the selection will be conducted by the Honorary Selection Consultant, Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants, in early 2011. The Panel of Judges will then select the award winners based on the selection criteria relating to the candidates' personal accomplishments in his/her profession, their contributions to the community in which he/she lives, and his/her support for PolyU and its alumni development.
Results of the selection will be publicly announced in March 2011. At the Award Presentation Ceremony and Dinner scheduled for April 2011, each winner will be presented an "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" trophy and proposers of the award winners will each receive souvenirs in appreciation of their nominations.
Nomination forms can be obtained from 27 September at the following venues on the PolyU campus: - Alumni Affairs &amp; Development Office - Office of the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations - Pao Yue-kong Library - Bookstore
Nomination form and other details on the award selection can also be downloaded from the website at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/alumni/opaa2011
