
[date]2010.07.28[/date]
[title]PolyU-Realink Gala Premiere presents "The Sorcerer’s Apprentice"[/title]
About 1,000 guests today (28 July) have generously supported the "PolyU-Realink Charity Gala Premiere 2010" of "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" hosted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. This fund-raising event has raised funds not only for the University's four-year undergraduate curriculum development, but also for nurturing talents for the multi-media industry.
The charity gala premiere was officiated by Mrs Katherine Ngan, Chairlady of the organising committee; Dr Margaret Choi, Co-chairlady of the organising committee; Mr Charles Lam, son of Mrs Nina Lam, Co-chairlady of the organising committee; Dr Roy Chung, the Honorary Advisor of the gala premiere; Mr Yau Wah-yau, Managing Director of Realink and Title Sponsor of the event; Mr Roger Ngan, Director of Sales and R&amp;D of May Cheong Group and Jade Sponsor of the event; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Mr Nicholas Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President and Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
Speaking at the gala event, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said, "This festive event serves to add an artistic and glamorous dimension to PolyU's fund-raising efforts. We are grateful that with the launch of the fifth round of matching grant scheme, this event can definitely bring extra revenue to the University."
Presented by Walt Disney Pictures and featuring Academy Award-winning Best Actor Nicolas Cage, "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" is an innovative and epic comedy adventure about a sorcerer and his hapless apprentice who are swept into the centre of an ancient conflict between good and evil. The story inspires the youth to learn from experiences and make wise decisions in this ever-changing world.
The net proceeds raised from this event will support the University's long-term development and its Digital Media programme.
