
[date]2010.08.13[/date]
[title]PolyU will develop a new and more robust model for the advancement of knowledge and technology transfer[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will develop a new and more robust model for the advancement of knowledge and technology transfer, in response to the recommendations made by the Independent Review Panel (IRP) set up in mid March to review the operations of PolyU's subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.   Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, also gave an update on PolyU's tendering procedures for capital projects. In addition, he reported on the surplus achieved by PolyU in the 2009/10 fiscal year at today's (13 August) briefing.    
The IRP chaired by Dr York Liao, Chairman of Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic and Vocational Qualifications, has put forward four recommendations: (1) No cash investment to promote technology transfer;(2) Avoidance of shareholdings and directorship; (3) Development and timely execution of exit strategy; and (4) Establishment of an effective governance structure and accountability.
"The most immediate task for the University right now is to review the current investment portfolio for knowledge and technology transfer and withdraw from those companies whose performance is less satisfactory. We must also quickly develop a system to strengthen the governance of those companies that would continue to operate," said Professor Tong.
"As an application-oriented University, we are committed to knowledge and technology transfer, through which we can enhance the competitiveness of business and industry, as well as improve people's quality of life. We will and we must continue to emphasize on knowledge and technology transfer in the future but should always try to find better and more effective way of doing so," added Professor Tong. 
Professor Tong agreed that there was room for improvement in the set up and operation of those companies and that we could have done better and in a more prudent way in certain areas. "We should learn from experience and be more aware of the community's expectations towards a university," he added.
Professor Tong thanked Dr York Liao and panel members Dr Andrew Lo and Mr Daniel Yu for their tremendous efforts in this review.
As to the concern about the tendering procedures for capital projects, Professor Tong quoted the key findings presented by the Corruption Prevention Department of the Independent Commission Against Corruption in early June this year: "The CDO (the Campus Development Office of PolyU) has in place a reasonable system for the letting and administration of the development works contract. Operational manuals and instructions are issued to CDO staff for compliance. Financial authorities are specified for the award of contracts and approval of variations which have cost implications."
"The Corruption Prevention Department of the Independent Commission Against Corruption commenced a study on our tendering procedures in last October. Its key findings could well demonstrate that PolyU's tendering procedures are appropriate, well documented and administered," said Professor Tong. One of the statutory duties of Corruption Prevention Department is to examine the practices and procedures of public sector organizations and make recommendations to plug corruption loopholes. Almost all government departments and the majority of public bodies have had their key procedures studied.
PolyU is also in the process of formulating an investment strategy that will cater for the long-term development of the University. A working group has been formed and has submitted its recommendations to the University Council for consideration.
In contrast to the $900 million deficit recorded in the fiscal year ended 30 June 2009, PolyU achieved a small surplus for the year ended June 2010.
"This was the result of more prudent financial management by all academic and non-academic departments. I would like to thank all our staff for their dedicated efforts. We must continue to be prudent on budgetary issues in the years to come," said Professor Tong.
 
