
[date]2010.11.08[/date]
[title]PolyU takes the lead to host First Knowledge Transfer Conference[/title]
More than 400 academics, business executives, industrial personnel and policy makers from around the world are gathering in Hong Kong from 8 to 9 November 2010 to participate in the first Knowledge Transfer Conference.
Supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund and the University Grants Committee of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the two-day Conference is jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Hong Kong Baptist University, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, City University of Hong Kong, The Hong Kong Institute of Education, Lingnan University, The Hong Kong Science and Technology University, The University of Hong Kong, and Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation.
This large-scale international Conference was officially kicked off today (8 November) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre by Dr Ronan Stephan, General-Director for Research and Innovation, French Ministry of Higher Education and Research, France; Dr Zhang Jing'an, Chief of Science and Technology Daily and Member of the Leading Party Group, Ministry of Science and Technology, People's Republic of China (PRC); Mr Michael Stone, Secretary-General, University Grants Committee, HKSAR; Miss Janet Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology, Innovation and Technology Commission, HKSAR; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Professor Tong said, "Knowledge transfer has been widely recognized as one of the key drivers of the knowledge-based economy. The Conference therefore provides an excellent platform for business executives, industrial personnel and policy makers to build connections, exchange ideas and share the current trends and the best practices of knowledge transfer activities."
Themed on "Partnering for Success: Mastering Innovation, Leveraging Opportunities, Engaging Community", the Conference also aims to promote Hong Kong as the regional hub for innovation, knowledge transfer and entrepreneurship, hence building Hong Kong's leadership role in knowledge transfer, creating impact to the overall economic development.
Many prominent international and local business leaders and scholars have been invited to deliver keynote speeches at the Conference. They include: Dr Wang Jianzhou, Chairman, China Mobile Communications; Dr Richard Jennings, Deputy Director, Cambridge Enterprise Ltd, United Kingdom; and Dr Klaus Moertl, Executive Vice President, EPCOS (Zhuhai FTZ) Co Ltd, A TDK Group Company, PRC.
As a prelude to the Conference, AIESEC in PolyU and the Cambridge University Education Without Borders co-organized a Student Forum last Saturday (6 November) to encourage university students in Hong Kong to embrace innovation and entrepreneurship. All the participants were inspired by the five world-class speakers who shared their views on the education and business life in the 21st century, and of what it takes for young people to succeed in today's globalized world.
For more details and programme of the Conference, please visit its official website at URL: http://www.ktconference.com/en_index.html
