
[date]2010.07.20[/date]
[title]PolyU garners industry's support to develop RFID-based Air Cargo Processing System[/title]
Computing experts of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have developed an Air Cargo Processing System using Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology. The system involves the innovative and effective use of RFID to facilitate air cargo processing, which aims to maintain Hong Kong's leading role in air freight forwarding industry and enhance its competitiveness.
Working in collaboration with Hong Kong R&amp;D Centre for Logistics and Supply Chain Management Enabling Technologies, Hongkong Association of Freight Forwarding and Logistics Limited (HAFFA), DHL Global Forwarding, and other industrial collaborators, PolyU's Department of Computing kicked off a project entitled "Enhancing the Competitiveness of the Hong Kong Air Freight Forwarding Industry Using RFID and Software Agent Technologies" in 2008.
A project briefing was held on the university campus today (20 July) with distinguished speakers from the industry. During the briefing, Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor of the Department of Computing, and his project team presented updates of the project and gave a demonstration on the RFID system.
The project team reported that with the support of DHL Global Forwarding, they have recently completed a pilot run for delivering the first batch of air cargo from Hong Kong to Taiwan using the RFID system. When the air cargo items were received in Taiwan, the air cargo information was decoded and processed accordingly. The pilot run provides a valuable reference for the Hong Kong air freight industry. Last year, local pilot runs were also conducted in collaboration with DHL Global Forwarding and The Janel Group of Hong Kong Limited.
Among other useful functions, the PolyU-developed system has three distinguishing features. Firstly, a Flexible RFID Encoder and Decoder (FRED) has been developed in relation to the project. It is an integrated software tool designed for the efficient encoding and decoding of RFID tag data. With FRED, essential air cargo data can be written onto RFID tags for identification and processing purposes. Secondly, the system comes with an integrated RFID gateway with movement detection capability for both air cargo check-in and check-out operations. It can also be complemented by a webcam-based movement detection mechanism. Thirdly, the system has a tag rewriting mechanism which allows, for example, flight information to be written onto the existing RFID tags automatically during the check-out process.
The development of FRED also saw the active participation of a teammate Mr Chiu Chi-hang, PolyU graduate and former student of Red Cross John Kennedy Centre. Despite suffering from Congenital Muscular Dystrophy, he has made significant contributions to this project. In addition, FRED snatched a Silver Medal in the 38th International Exhibition of Inventions of Geneva this April.
The project was kicked off in 2008 with over $4 million grant from the HKSAR Government's Innovation and Technology Fund.
This project is funded by the Innovation and Technology Fund. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material / event (or by members of the project team) do not reflect the views of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Innovation and Technology Commission or the Panel of Assessors for the Innovation and Technology Support Programme of the Innovation and Technology Fund.
