
[date]2010.06.09[/date]
[title]PolyU students stage graduation fashion show[/title]
Twenty-four graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at their annual graduation fashion show held today (9 June) at Hotel InterContinental Hong Kong. The graduates are either from the Bachelor of Arts (Hons) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles or the Higher Diploma Scheme in Fashion and Textile Studies.
The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order):
Mr Mark Baumann ' Visual Director of Lane Crawford (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Mr Harris Chan, Creative Director, MOISELLE International Holdings Ltd.
Ms Irene Chan ' Fashion Editor of Milk X Monthly Magazine 
Mr Silvio Chan ' Creative Director, Alternatif Fashion Workshop
Ms Lu Lu Cheung ' Creative Director of Rolls Group Ltd.
Mr Shaun Cheung ' Director, Textile Institute (Hong Kong)
Mr Michael Johansen, Vice President and General Manager, RIS Asia, Avery Dennison Hong Kong B.V. 
Mr Walter Ma ' Vice-Chairman of Hong Kong Fashion Designer Association
Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the gala show, the students also competed for the following prizes:
Overall Grand Award &amp; First Runner-up sponsored by Avery Dennison Hong Kong B.V.
Second Runner-up sponsored by Textile Institute (Hong Kong)
Most Promising Young Talent Awards sponsored by Lane Crawford (Hong Kong) Ltd.
SAGA Travelling Scholarship sponsored by Saga Furs of Scandinavia
Best Innovation LAMPO Award sponsored by LAMPO ZIPPER of Ditta Giovanni  Lanfranchi SpA (Italy)
Nameson Knitwear Inspiration Award sponsored by Nameson Group
Best Casual-wear Design Award sponsored by Tungtex (Holdings) Company Limited
The Woolmark Platinum Award sponsored by Australian Wool Innovation Ltd.
Flinders Merino &amp; AWI Platinum Award sponsored by Flinders Merino
Lectra Best Application of Fashion Technology Award sponsored by Lectra
Best Marketability Award sponsored by MOISELLE International Holdings Ltd.
Best Use of Synthetic Leather Award sponsored by LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited
Outstanding Menswear Award sponsored by Esquel Group
Best Use of Colour Award sponsored by KINJI
Best Accessorised Collection Award sponsored by Rich Truth Ltd.
HKFDA Creativity Award sponsored by Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
