
[date]2010.09.09[/date]
[title]PolyU hails support of alumnus with naming of Realink Building[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has officially named a building on campus after Realink Group in recognition of the generous donation of more than $30 million from its alumnus Mr Yau Wah-yau, Founder and Managing Director of Realink Group, in support of the University's long-term development.
A commemorative plaque marking the occasion was officially unveiled today (9 September) at a special ceremony by Mr Yau Wah-yau; The Honorable Ms Marjorie Yang, PolyU Council Chairman; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
On behalf of the University, Ms Yang expressed her heartfelt gratitude to Mr Yau's generosity and affection for his alma mater. She said, 'The substantial donation from Mr Yau gives a strong boost to our efforts to raise funds for the University as it enables PolyU to secure extra funds from the Fifth Matching Grant Scheme.'
'We are also grateful that Mr Yau has recently agreed to serve as Chairman of the Fund-raising Committee. In recognition of his generous contribution to the University, the PolyU Council has decided to name a building on campus the Realink Building,' added Ms Yang.
During the ceremony, Mr Yau said, 'I am truly impressed by the many outstanding achievements the University has made over the years. With Professor Tong's strong commitment to education, I have every confidence that he and his management team will take PolyU to its next level of excellence, thereby contributing to the well-being of society and the country.'
In his vote of thanks, Professor Tong also remarked, 'The benefaction means a lot to PolyU not only does it support the long-term development of the University, but also represents a strong tie between PolyU and its alumni. Mr Yau has set a fine example as an ardent supporter of his alma mater. We hope other alumni will follow suit to facilitate PolyU to achieve its mission.'
Mr Yau Wah-yau graduated from the Department of Electronic Engineering of the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1983. He founded Realink Group in 1991, emphasizing on the design, manufacturing and distribution of a variety of pagers under its own brand name. Under Mr Yau's visionary leadership, the Group expanded its business further to cover financial paging and Internet brokerage service in 2001 and has become one of the most successful companies in the field.
While heavily engaged with his business, Mr Yau shows great care for the community and set up the Yau Wah Yau Charitable Foundation Limited in 1999 to support various charitable activities and those in need. His accomplishments in advancing telecommunications earned him the coveted Young Industrialist Award of Hong Kong in 1998.
The six-storey Realink Building was located in the northeast corner of the PolyU campus, with a gross floor area of approximately 7,500 square metres. The building is home to many workshops of the Industrial Centre and well-equipped laboratories of academic departments for teaching and research purposes.
 
