
[date]2010.06.11[/date]
[title]Global Student Challenge comes to a climax[/title]
The Global Student Challenge (GSC) organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) came to a climax on 10 June at its Final held on the university campus, with six finalist teams competing for the coveted award in the University Division and another six teams competing in the Secondary School Division.
This event is organized by PolyU as a major initiative to embrace internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship. The first GSC has attracted more than 180 teams from all over the world and the 12 finalist teams of elite students have risen to the top amidst fierce competition.
Presentations by the participants of the University Division are adjudicated by a judging panel chaired by Mr Paul Chow (Photo 1: middle), Former Chief Executive, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; and the Secondary School Division by another panel chaired by Dr Raymond Chan (Photo 2: second from the right), Chairman &amp; CEO, IDT International Ltd.
Photo 1
Photo 2
The GSC Gala Dinner cum Presentation Ceremony was graced by the Guest of Honour, Professor K C Chan (Photo 3: third from the left on the second row), Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, the Hong Kong SAR Government. Business tycoon Mr Ronnie Chan (Photo 4), Chairman of Hang Lung Group shared his thought on "How innovative entrepreneur takes on social responsibility" with the audience.
Photo 3
Photo 4
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong extended a warm welcome to the participants and expressed his thanks to the sponsors and supporting organizations. (Photo 5)
Photo 5
The winners of the Secondary School Division are:
Best of the Best Commercial Award
Photo 6Enigma from United World College of South East Asia, Singapore
Gold Award &amp; Theme Award ' Environment &amp; Sustainability
Photo 7Genesis from Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies, Korea
Silver Award &amp; Theme Award - Health &amp; Wellness
Photo 8Naturix from Jamnabai Narsee School, India
Bronze Award &amp; Theme Award - Lifestyle
Photo 9Enigma from United World College of South East Asia, Singapore
Commendation Award
Photo 10Blue Wings from Beijing No. 4 High School, Beijing, PRC
The winners of the University Division are:
Best of the Best Commercial Award
Photo 11MTL Ventures from HEC Montreal, Canada
Gold Award &amp; Theme Award ' Health &amp; Wellness
Photo 12SurgyPack from John Hopkins University, USA
Silver Award &amp; Theme Award - Lifestyle
Photo 13FutureMode from University of Central Lancashire, UK (Photo 13: team on the left)
Silver Award
Enterprise Q from Queensland University of Technology, Australia (Photo 13: team on the right)
Commendation Award &amp; Theme Award - Environment &amp; Sustainability
Photo 14New Green High-tech Co. Ltd from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, PRC (Photo 14: team on the left); and Urban Idea from McMaster University, Canada (Photo 14: team on the right)
