
[date]2010.08.02[/date]
[title]PolyU Summer Business Camp attracts Greater China students[/title]
One hundred secondary school students gathered on The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus for a four-day summer camp organized by the Faculty of Business. They came from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Beijing, Jilin, Liaoning and Zhejiang.
This seventh summer camp of the Faculty, themed "International Perspective‧Asian Opportunities", ran from 27 to 30 July 2010. These young students showed great interest in the three talks, about regional economic integration, cross-border advertising, and aviation industries of Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta, delivered by PolyU academics. They visited Hongkong International Terminals, Modern Terminals, The Kowloon Motor Bus Co., Cyberport and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited for a closer look at real-world operation. During the leadership training and team building workshops, these participants from different backgrounds interacted and exchanged their ideas. They cooperated closely during the business analysis competition at the end of the camp.
Faculty of Business Acting Dean Professor Howard Davies said, "The camp serves as a platform for prospective students to learn more about PolyU and the Faculty's education programmes, and to meet with its academics. To echo the Faculty's core value of ‘Qualified for the Real World', camp activities are carefully planned to let participants understand how corporations are evolved in a highly internationalized business environment and how the Faculty prepares them for the real world."
Rica Barlett from Australian International School in Hong Kong said, "I gained first-hand knowledge of business operation through field visits and learned more about development trends through the seminars." Wei Chia Ling from Taipei County Yongping High School said, "I made new friends from different cultures at the camp. We worked closely as a team." Kang Jinyu from a high school of Northeast Normal University in the PRC said, "I like the business analysis competition. We used what we learnt in the camp in a creative way."
PolyU business programmes are popular among Greater China students. For the academic year 2010-11, the Faculty received 31,700 applications via Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) and 2,900 from Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) applicants.
