
[date]2010.06.28[/date]
[title]PolyU stages Chinese Opera Charity Night[/title]
The PolyU-Shun Power Chinese Opera Charity Night was held last Friday (25 June) at Sunbeam Theatre to raise fund for The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
The charity night was officiated by Mrs Corona Cheuk, Chairperson of the Organizing Committee; Ms Sin, daughter of Mr William Sin Wai-chung, President of Shun Power Hong Kong Ltd. and title sponsor of the event; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); and Mr Sidney Wong, Acting Director of Alumni Affairs and Development.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Professor Tong was grateful for the generous support of all donors and performers. He said this meaningful event not only helps to raise funds for PolyU, but also strengthens the ties between the University and the Cantonese Opera sector, and provides an opportunity for the participants, especially the younger generation, to appreciate the traditional art form.
Apart from going on stage herself, Mrs Cheuk invited her opera teacher Ms Wan Fai-yin (尹飛燕女士) , a leading diva in Cantonese Opera, to perform "Butterfly and Red Pear Blossom". Other Cantonese Opera artists included Ms Wai Chun-ying (衛駿英女士) and Ms Emily Chan (陳詠儀女士). Some exciting programmes included the humorous tale "A Bachelor's Love Affair", and the familiar tunes of "The Reunion at the Nunnery". An excerpt from "Love and War" was also performed.
In addition, an exhibition showcasing archival materials in relation to Chinese Opera was held at Sunbeam Theatre before the show. The exhibition helped to enhance public knowledge and appreciation of the aesthetic Chinese traditional art form.
The net proceeds generated from the show will support the construction of the new student hostel which offers 1,650 hostel places to cope with the increased number of students and their accommodation needs arising from the four-year curriculum.
