
[date]2010.07.02[/date]
[title]PolyU establishes Institute of Active Ageing to address challenges and opportunities presented by an ageing society[/title]
According to the World Health Organization, Hong Kong is forecast to be one of the cities with the largest percentage of older adults by 2050. The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has established the Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) in order to help Hong Kong to develop into a society that is better equipped to meet the needs and potentials of its ageing residents. To mark its inauguration, IAA held a symposium and a dinner reception today (2 July).
The Inauguration Symposium titled "Interdisciplinary Knowledge and Practice on Active Ageing" was held at Chiang Chen Studio Theatre on the university campus this afternoon. Five distinguished local and overseas guest speakers were invited to share their views with the audience on promoting an active ageing society. 
Addressing the symposium, Professor Philip C. H. Chan, Deputy President and Provost of PolyU, said, "The establishment of IAA is a timely moment that PolyU takes a proactive stance to promote the notion of active ageing." Professor Chan further commented, "Its inauguration symposium is an excellent example to highlight how the synergy of interdisciplinary knowledge and practice can be optimized in the promotion of active ageing. It also reflects the strategic collaboration of IAA between local and overseas scholars as well as the academic and private sectors."
The symposium was attended by nearly 200 participants from different backgrounds, including government bodies, local institutions, welfare organizations, as well as business and commercial sectors. Professor Roger Mannell, Professor of Faculty of Applied Health Sciences of University of Waterloo, talked about "Ensuring research on active ageing translates into practice"; Professor Iris Benzie, Chair Professor of Biomedical Science and Associate Head (Academic) of the Department of Health Technology and Informatics, PolyU, gave an overview on how and when to start leading a healthy ageing; Mr Yeung Ka-sing, Chairman of Hong Kong Housing Society, shared with the audience an innovative model of senior housing; Professor Lorraine Justice, Swire Chair Professor of Design and Director of School of Design, presented her thoughts in inclusive design for older adults; and Ir Professor Daniel Chan, Professor of PolyU's Department of Building Services Engineering, discussed on living green for active ageing. 
An Inauguration Dinner was also held on the same evening. The occasion was graced by the presence of Mr Matthew Cheung, Secretary for Labour and Welfare of the HKSAR Government, as the Guest of Honour.
In his welcoming address, Ir Dr Ng Tat-lun, PolyU Deputy Council Chairman, said, "PolyU has established a fine reputation as a pioneer and leader in application-oriented education and research in Hong Kong. IAA continues this tradition by using a cross-disciplinary approach to encourage collaborations between experts in different fields to examine situations and come up with solutions that are both novel and practical." Dr Ng also invited guests at the dinner to join PolyU in serving Hong Kong and develop it into a society that is better equipped to meet the needs and potentials of its ageing residents.
Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung, Chairman of Advisory Committee of IAA, remarked at the occasion that he is confident that IAA will become a much desired focal point and interface in the community for developing Hong Kong into an age-friendly society. He said, "The Institute will act as a catalyst for all sectors of the society to join hands in improving the quality of life of our elders."
Mr Matthew Cheung congratulated PolyU on the launch of IAA. He said, "The establishment of IAA is an important infrastructure to enhance our knowledge and understanding of 'ageing well', and to put such knowledge into practice.  I have every confidence that the IAA will become not only a landmark in the academic circle, but also a major driving force in helping elders in our society more fully engage in life in the decades to come."
IAA is established and developed on the invaluable inputs from the Advisory Committee, which is formed by 19 distinguished local and overseas personnels of different disciplines in promoting active ageing. To show IAA's gratitude to their generous sharing and advice, Dr Ng Tat-lun presented an appreciation certificate to Dr Leong, while Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, presented the certificates to other dedicated advisory committee members.
IAA is an interdisciplinary centre that brings together expertise of 23 disciplines across the University's various faculties and schools, namely living environment, building design and engineering, business and finance, technology, health and rehabilitation, social policy, biochemistry and traditional Chinese medicine, textiles and clothing, and leisure and recreation. The Institute is committed to supporting Hong Kong to develop into an age-friendly society through research, training and practice. IAA works closely with health care providers, private and public sectors, older adults and their families, and the general public to address issues related to the greying population.
Tapping on existing age-related research strengths at PolyU, IAA uses a cross-disciplinary approach to develop education, research and services to nurture manpower and produce evidence-based practices and applications that are essential for an age-friendly society. The research foci of the Institute are total wellness for older adults, age-friendly living environment, integrative use of design and technology in ageing practice, and innovative models of practice for active ageing with research funding amounting to HK$17.5 million. The Institute held several seminars earlier on different aspects of the older adults and is exploring the possibility of offering courses on gerontology.
