
[date]2010.07.16[/date]
[title]PolyU and Yan Oi Tong jointly establish Child Development Centre for Giftedness[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Yan Oi Tong have jointly established The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Yan Oi Tong Au Suet Ming Child Development Centre for Giftedness to provide professional service for local organizations serving children and adolescents.
The opening and naming ceremony of the Centre was held today (16 July) on the university campus. Officiating at the ceremony were Dr Catherine K K Chan, Deputy Secretary for Education, Education Bureau of the HKSAR Government; Ms Chong Sok-un, Chairperson of Yan Oi Tong; Ms Au Suet-ming, Vice Chairperson of Yan Oi Yong; Dr Thomas Tsang, Controller, Centre for Health Protection; Dr Shirley Leung, Principal Medical Officer (Family Health Service), Department of Health of the HKSAR Government; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; and Professor Daniel Shek, Chair Professor, PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Yan Oi Tong and its Vice Chairperson Ms Au Suet-ming. He said, "We are delighted to have received staunch support from Yan Oi Tong in nurturing more educational and child psychologists to meet the needs of the society. We believe that the professional service provided by the Centre will be beneficial to child development and to the well-being of the community."
In response to the rising demand for trained professionals in child development, PolyU also launched the Master of Educational and Child Psychology programme in 2009. The UGC-funded programme aims at providing instruction and training in both the theories and practice of applied educational psychology, and will lead to a professional qualification for psychologists who wish to work in educational settings and organizations that are relevant to child-adolescent workforce development.
About The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is a university with a proud and illustrious history. Formerly known as the Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Institution assumed full university status in 1994. The University prides itself on its quality application-oriented academic programmes and research and close ties with business and industry. It is the largest publicly-funded tertiary institution in Hong Kong in terms of number of students, with about 28,000 full-time and part-time students, and a vast pool of over 280,000 graduates.
About Yan Oi Tong
Yan Oi Tong was officially established and registered as a non-profit charitable organization in 1977. In fulfilling its mission as "Caring for the aged and the young, promoting education and nurturing talent, and serving the community with sincerity", Yan Oi Tong provides social welfare, education, medical, recreation and sports services for the general public throughout Hong Kong, including Tuen Mun, Yuen Long, Tai Po, Shatin, Kwai Ching, Tseung Kwan O, Causeway Bay and Tsimshatsui.
