
[date]2010.10.03[/date]
[title]Computing talent wins the laureate of "Ten Outstanding Young Persons"[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to have two young graduates in a row elected for the prestigious award of "Ten Outstanding Young Persons" for two consecutive years. This year the honour went to computing graduate Mr Lau Hiu-fung, who has been suffering from Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy since the age of eight.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong congratulated Hiu-fung for winning this accolade. He said, "Hiu-fung has set an outstanding example as both student and colleague of our University. His enthusiasm for study, work and life is an inspiration to many others. He has indeed truly testified the can-do spirit of Hong Kong people." Hiu-fung was a former student of the John F. Kennedy Centre of the Hong Kong Red Cross. His first dream was realized when he was admitted to PolyU to pursue a BSc degree in computing in 2006. Undaunted by the continuing deterioration of his physical condition, he kept on studying hard and graduated with first-class honour in 2009. He also snatched the Gold Award of the 2009 Amway Pan-Pearl River Delta Region Universities IT Project Competition, the Gold Award in HKICT Awards 2009 in the Best Innovation and Research (College &amp; Undergraduates) Category, and Gold Award in the Hong Kong RFID Awards U-21 RFID Awards 2009 (Undergraduate Stream).
Upon graduation, Hiu-fung works under the supervision of Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor of the Department of Computing, on the development of SMS services for airport travelers and tourists to have convenient access to information on updated flight status and shopping / dining outlets. This project is funded by the Office of the Telecommunications Authority (OFTA) and it also receives strong industrial support.
Last year, PolyU civil engineering graduate Mr Zing Lam Chi-sing also won the "Ten Outstanding Young Persons" for setting up a new company which specializes in converting recycled waste glass for the production of environmentally friendly Eco-blocks.
