
[date]2010.11.05[/date]
[title]PolyU DBA/DMgt Educate Global Leaders, not Managers[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Graduate School of Business hosted a reception on 2 November for graduates of its DBA (Doctor of Business Administration) (Hong Kong) / DMgt (Doctor of Management) (Mainland China) programmes.
The 36 graduates are global business leaders in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Outstanding Graduates are Zhang Ji, Director General of Ministry of Commerce, PRC; Zhang Xiaotie, External Director of China Electronics Corporation; Humphrey Leung, Group CEO of Solomon Systech Limited; Kelvin Leung, CEO, North Asia Pacific of DHL Global Forwarding, and the Best Thesis Awardees are Michael Ho, Managing Director of American Clubs International Ltd; Amy Yip, Senior Lecturer &amp; Programme Leader of HKU School of Professional and Continuing Education; and Ma Yimin, General Manager (Hubei Branch) of China Telecom Corporation Ltd, they have successfully applied their research findings in their own corporations.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said senior executives join their doctoral business programmes to become world leaders. In addition to acquiring inter-disciplinary knowledge and cutting-edge theories, they use scientific methods to conduct research and apply the findings to tackle real-world issues. We educate them to become global leaders.
Vice President (International and Executive Education) and Graduate School of Business Director Professor Judy Tsui talked about "leading from behind", that is, using novel leadership theories to enable others to forge ahead, to innovate, and to lead, and to open up opportunities for them to grow and become global leaders. "Leaders don't create followers. They create more leaders." She quoted Tom Peters, author of In Search of Excellence.
Faculty of Business Acting Dean and Associate Dean (Programmes, Teaching &amp; Learning) Professor Howard Davies said they have very high expectation of their doctoral students since today's global business demands of business executives not only extensive knowledge and effective leadership but also a comprehensive vision, a creative mind, and a range of many other personal qualities.
PolyU Graduate School of Business is the first graduate business school established in Hong Kong. Its flagship programmes DBA and DMgt are accredited by the UK-based AMBA (Association of MBAs). The programmes are offered in collaboration with the IMD (International Institute for Management Development) in Switzerland, the Sauder School of Business at the University of British Columbia in Canada, and the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester in the US.
