
[date]2010.09.15[/date]
[title]PolyU Faculty of Business launches Community Service Project[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Faculty of Business launches today (15 September) a community service project. Mr Lee Jark Pui, SBS, OBE, JP, Chairman of the Agency for Volunteer Service, is Honorary Advisor to the project.
Officiating at the inauguration, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Professor Walter W. Yuen said, "While I have no doubt that our business students are sensitive to economic purposes, it is also my fervent hope that they will foster social values."
"Experience tells us that community service is one useful way of inspiring students to look beyond themselves and think about others. When they know more about other people's needs, they find the value of serving them." He added.
Faculty Acting Dean Professor Howard Davies said they nurture "all-round professionals that are not only knowledgeable and ethical but also committed to serving others." In the past, PolyU business students joined projects hosted by the University and outside parties. The Faculty thinks it is now time to launch its own project to give the students greater exposure to social issues and community service.
A number of community leaders as well as PolyU and Faculty members offer support to this project, named FB CARES, by forming an Advisory Committee.
The over 140 student participants will work with non-profit organizations to apply their knowledge and skills in serving the elderly, children and youth. They will also provide rehabilitation and family services. The Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital has a project for accompanying discharged cancer patients when they have a follow-up medical appointment. The Shatin Hospital wishes to identify those discharged elderly that need a home helper. The students will be involved in these and other plans in addition to holding fund-raising events for ORBIS.
To prepare students for full participation in the project, the Faculty organizes a series of training workshops for them.
