
[date]2010.06.03[/date]
[title]PolyU Design Show gives "Food for Thought"[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Design Annual Show was kicked off today (3 June) at the InnoCentre. Officiating at the Opening Ceremony were Ms Suzi Wong, famous media host, and Professor Lorraine Justice, Director of the School.
Themed "Food for Thought", this year's Design Annual Show displayed final year projects of the students from the School's Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Design, Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Digital Media, Higher Diploma in Multimedia Design and Technology, and Higher Diploma in Product Innovation Technologies, covering a range of specialisms including advertising, digital media, environment and interior, industrial and product, or visual communication design.
This year, graduating students in the advertising discipline took the lead to develop the theme for the Show. Professor Lorraine Justice, Director of the School, said, "Seven groups of students from the advertising discipline presented their ideas this year in a race to have them realized in a real-life campaign. 'Food for Thought' was chosen in the end because of a well thought out campaign that took advantage of the latest social networking technologies, and clever use of visuals showing objects that seem petty but very useful in our everyday lives, especially in design."As part of the campaign, a viral marketing video was also produced to promote the show by a group of volunteering first year students in the Digital Media discipline. The video, named "Zombies' Conference", features some funny moments of the designers' brainstorming sessions. The video calls for participation of all to upload inspirations to the Show's website at www.food4thought2010.com
The PolyU Design Annual Show is one of the biggest design events of the year in Hong Kong. Out of about 200 projects displayed at the Annual Show, two projects from each discipline were named Best of Show. Students receiving these honours will also present their projects at the Pecha Kucha Night, a popular designers networking event that began in Tokyo, Japan now organized around the world. The Annual Show is free and open to members of the public. Guided tours are available and groups have to register early at the event website. Details are as follows:
PolyU Design Annual Show 2010Dates and Hours :3 June :  2:30 p.m. ' 8:30 p.m.4 ' 17 June :    11:30 a.m. ' 8:30 p.m. DailyExhibition venue :  InnoCentre (Ground Floor, 72 Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon Tong)Event website : http://www.food4thought2010.com
Pecha Kucha Night by PolyU Design StudentsDate and Time :  3 June 8:00 p.m. (door opens at 7:30 p.m.)Venue :  Room One, The Mira Hong Kong, TsimshatsuiEntrance :  Regular HK$80, Student HK$50 (including one drink)RSVP :  2739 6889 / nichol.kong@ambassadors.org.hk
About PolyU's School of Design
Being the sole provider of design education at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in Hong Kong, the School of Design has been an important hub of design education and research since 1964. The School, ranked as one of the Top 30 design schools in Asia and in the world by BusinessWeek, is poised to play a key role in nurturing new generations of designers and driving the design industry in the region.
A new complex will be built on campus to further drive the development of Hong Kong as a design hub in Asia. The complex, tentatively named "Innovation Tower", will be the first permanent architectural work in Hong Kong of Ms Zaha Hadid, one of the most influential figures in the world of modern architecture. It is targeted for completion by mid 2012.
Famous designers who graduated from PolyU's School of Design include world-renowned fashion designer Ms Vivienne Tam, Oscar-winner and Director for Shrek Mr Raman Hui, founder of international luxury jewellery brand Qeelin Mr Dennis Chan, designer of the Saab Aero-X concept car Mr Anthony Lo, and Partner of Kan &amp; Lau Design Consultants Mr Freeman Lau, amongst others.
