
[date]2010.11.10[/date]
[title]PolyU and Squina "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team join hands to improve the elderly's home environment[/title]
The Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Squina "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team have jointly launched a "Home Safety Project" for five years to improve the living standard of the elderly. A series of seminars on elderly home safety will also be organized to enhance the self-care ability of elders.
With the aim of promoting the importance of elderly home safety and raising the awareness of domestic safety among singleton elders, the Project initiated by Squina "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team will provide home environment assessments and improvements for 200 elderly families. IAA will also undertake relevant research to further improve elderly people's quality of life. 
Supported by "Po Leung Kuk Squina Loving Heart Fund", IAA adopts a cross-disciplinary approach in assessing the home environment of elders and understanding their needs. Under the "Home Safety Project", a team of occupational therapists will offer thorough home environment assessments to 200 elderly families from Po Leung Kuk elderly centres. "Loving Heart" Domestic Support Team will then modify their home with suitable supporting facilities in order to enhance the self-care ability of elders, hence improving their living environment.
A special ceremony to kick off the "Home Safety Project" was held today (10 November) on the PolyU campus. Mr Paul Tang Kwok-wai, Permanent Secretary for Labour and Welfare, was the Guest of Honour. Famous artiste and project ambassador Mr Kevin Cheng also joined the ceremony to promote the importance of elderly domestic safety.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Tang said, "The Government has launched the 'Home Environment Improvement Scheme for the Elderly' since 2008. The project is designed to help elder families who live in dilapidated homes with poor fittings and lack the financial resources improve their home environment through the provision of small-scale home renovation works or new furniture. Although the Government is determined to help the elders in need, some may not be benefited due to various reasons. I hope the 'Home Safety Project' can help fill the existing service gap and will work alongside the 'Home Environment Improvement Scheme'."
Introducing this Project, Professor George Woo, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, pointed out a key feature of the Project is to adopt a cross-disciplinary approach of IAA in enhancing elderly home safety. The approach enables medical professionals to gain better understanding of the needs of elders and to make referrals when necessary. In addition, IAA would take a step forward in undertaking relevant research with a view to improving the living standard of elderly people.
Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, BBS, JP, Chairman of "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team shared her views on the launch of the "Home Safety Project" and the collaboration between IAA and "Loving Heart" Domestic Support Team. She said, "We are delighted that Po Leung Kuk Squina 'Loving Heart Fund' has strongly supported the project again and 200 elderly families from Po Leung Kuk elderly centres will be benefited. Understanding the needs of elders should be two-way. Having regard to their varying personal care needs, PolyU will send forth a team of professional experts to carry out home environment assessments. Together with our dedicated volunteers, I am sure the living environment of needy elders will be greatly improved, building a caring community for them."
Following the implementation of the "Comprehensive Eye Check Project for the Elderly" earlier this year, the "Home Safety Project" is another large-scale volunteer campaign of "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team.
PolyU's Institute of Active Ageing
PolyU's Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) is an interdisciplinary centre that brings together expertise of 23 disciplines across the University's various faculties and schools, namely living environment, building design and engineering, business and finance, technology, health and rehabilitation, social policy, biochemistry and traditional Chinese medicine, textiles and clothing, and leisure and recreation.  IAA uses a cross-disciplinary approach to develop education, research and services to nurture manpower and produce evidence-based practices and applications that are essential for an age-friendly society. It also works closely with health care providers, private and public sectors, older adults and their families, and the general public to address issues related to the greying population.
About "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team
Founded by Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, BBS, JP, Chairman and CEO of Squina International Group Limited, in 2008, the "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team is made up of some 700 members, of which most of them are staff members, healthcare practitioners and students. It has been dedicated to providing thorough voluntary service for the needy in the community, with an emphasis on the healthcare service of the elderly. A number of health assessment, health and ocular health seminars, and home visits have been organized for the elderly over the past years.
