
[date]2010.09.07[/date]
[title]PolyU clarifies errors in Hong Kong Economic Journal articles[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is regretted to note that there are errors in Hong Kong Economic Journal's two articles, entitled "PolyU teaching hotel seriously over budget" and "Teaching hotel cannot recover cost in two decades", which were published on 6 and 7 September respectively. The errors will easily mislead readers, and the University makes the following clarifications:
The $1.7 billion loan relating to Hotel ICON mentioned in the articles is incorrect. A $700 million bank loan facility was secured by PolyU for the Hotel ICON, the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) and the staff living quarters. This is a loan facility subject to draw down by PolyU on "as needed" basis. As of 30 June 2010, only about $116 million have been drawn down.In addition, a $900 million government loan was borrowed by PolyU in three stages from 2001 to 2005 to fund two campuses of the Hong Kong Community College located respectively in Hung Hom Bay and West Kowloon. This loan has nothing to do with the Hotel ICON. Hence, PolyU's total long-term borrowing today is about $1 billion and about 10% of which is used to fund the entire project comprising the Hotel ICON, SHTM and the staff living quarters.
The claim on "potential bankruptcy of PolyU" in the articles is also incorrect. As of 30 June 2010, PolyU has $1.35 billion of cash on hand, over $1 billion of net current assets, and over $3 billion total net asset value. This is adequate to repay all the outstanding loan. In fact, in the 2009/10 fiscal year (ending 30 June 2010), PolyU's operation has resulted in a surplus as compared to the $900 million deficit recorded in the 2008/09 fiscal year. 
The articles stated that PolyU hired Hyatt to operate its Hotel ICON. This is incorrect. Hotel ICON is a first-of-its-kind integrated hotel teaching school and commercial operation. PolyU has recruited its own professional management team to operate Hotel ICON, in order to achieve the intended educational objectives.
There are many precedent cases of establishing hotels by higher education institutions. The Cornell School of Hotel Administration in the U.S., which ranks first in world, has its own integrated teaching hotel, the Statler Hotel. PolyU's SHTM is ranked no.2 in the world in research performance. The establishment of a teaching hotel can help fulfil its education objectives more effectively, and further enhance its international status.
The articles have misinterpreted and misunderstood the main purpose of Hotel ICON. Hotel ICON is a teaching and research hotel which aims at developing and promoting the education and research of the hotel and tourism industry, training outstanding talent for the industry, and supporting the long-term development of the hotel and tourism industry in Hong Kong. The construction of a higher quality hotel will help better achieve this objective. PolyU has no intention to compete with the other commercial hotels in Hong Kong.
Regarding the construction budget increase mentioned in the articles, no timing reference was given and the readers were misled to the conclusion that the construction cost of the hotel was out of control. The first $500 million budget in 2004 was a rough estimate for a smaller and lower standard hotel, while the Hong Kong economy was still recovering from SARS. This was never meant to be the final cost of a project (consisting of hotel, school and staff quarters) spanning over six years. In 2006, the Steering Committee and the Advisory Committee recommended the University to change its plan and build an upscale hotel integrated with SHTM. A more realistic cost estimate of about $1 billion was then made afterwards, taking into consideration of the changed plot ratio from 7 to 9, the inclusion of 4 levels of basement and the need to meet the Town Planning Board requirements. In June 2008, the budget was further revised to $1.3 billion, mostly due to the actual and anticipated cost of inflation. This $1.3 billion has since remained as the latest final budget. 
The final cost for Hotel ICON will be between $700 million and $900 million. Developing a hotel is a long-term investment, and the average payback period is more than 20 years. Hotel ICON's situation will be similar.
It was mentioned in the articles that "PolyU lost over $500 million during the global financial tsunami in 2008, clearing all the investment profits earned in recent years," and it was completely away from the truth. During the ten years from 2000 to 2009, PolyU's total investment profits were around $1.1 billion, and after the $500 million losses in 2008, PolyU still has $600 million investment profits. In addition, PolyU also has investment profits for the financial year 2009/2010. 
The PolyU Council has recently agreed to set up an investment committee, which will be responsible for formulating investment objectives and strategies that cater for the University's interests and long-term development, as well as supervising all matters related to investments.
