
[date]2010.10.06[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Conference on Supply Chain Management and Information Systems[/title]
More than one hundred leading academics and industry practitioners from 20 countries and territories are gathering on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to attend the 8th International Conference on Supply Chain Management and Information Systems organized by PolyU's Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering from 6 to 8 October 2010.
Themed "Logistics Systems and Engineering", the three-day Conference was kicked off by Professor Alex Wai, Vice President (Research Development); and Professor H. C. Man, Head of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, on the PolyU campus.
With its excellent international sea and air transport connections supported by an efficient infrastructure, Hong Kong has been playing a leading role in the logistics/supply chain management industry over the years. However, growing competition from neighbouring ports and logistics hubs in the Chinese mainland, and constant pressure for greater efficiency, faster turnaround times, lower rates, and better IT solutions are among the major challenges currently faced by the local industry, said the organizer.
The Conference therefore provides an inter-disciplinary platform for leading academics, researchers and industry practitioners to exchange ideas and observation in the field of supply chain management, logistics information systems, environmental and sustainability issues in logistics and knowledge management and to cope with the challenges ahead.
Four prominent international and local experts have been invited to deliver keynote speeches at the Conference. They include: the Honorable Miriam Lau Kin-yee, Legislative Councillor; Professor Robert W. Grubbström, Professor of Production Economics, Linköping Institute of Technology, Sweden; Professor Angappa Gunasekaran, Professor and Chairperson, Department of Decision and Information Sciences, Charlton College of Business, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth; and Professor André Langevin, Department of Mathematics and Industrial Engineering, École Polytechnique, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
For more details and programme of the Conference, please visit its official website at URL: http://www.ise.polyu.edu.hk/scmis2010/
