
[date]2010.10.12[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour four distinguished personalities at 16th Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon four prominent figures in recognition of their distinguished accomplishments and contributions at its 16th Congregation to be held on 3 November (Wednesday).
This year's honorary degree recipients include: Dr Francis Choi Chee-ming, Chairman of Early Light International (Holdings) Limited; Professor William C. Kirby, Harvard scholar in China Studies; Mr Thomas Kwok Ping-kwong, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties; and pioneering nursing scholar and advocate for children welfare Professor Ida Sather Martinson.
Dr Francis Choi Chee-ming, also well known as 'King of Toys', is Founder and currently Chairman of Early Light International (Holdings) Limited. He graduated with a Doctoral Degree in Business Management from Harbin Institute of Technology, People's Republic of China. Under his capable leadership, the Corporation has become one of the world's leading manufacturers of toys and consumer products. With extensive experience in the toys industry and business field, Dr Choi has taken up many responsibilities, including Member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Honorary President of the Toys Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong and Hong Kong Young Industrialists Council. He has also rendered strong support to PolyU through serving on the University Council from 2004 to 2010 and supporting various fund-raising initiatives. He is Honorary Life President of PolyU Development Foundation and Diamond Sponsor for the 2010 PolyU Innovation &amp; Entrepreneurship Global Student Challenge. He was also awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government in 2009. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration.
A historian of modern China, Professor William C. Kirby is the Spangler Family Professor of Business Administration at the Harvard Business School and T. M. Chang Professor of China Studies at Harvard University. He is a Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor and serves as Director of the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies and Chairman of the Harvard China Fund. Professor Kirby is no stranger to Hong Kong and he has been serving as a Member of the University Grants Committee since August 2009. His work examines China's business, economic, and political development in an international context. His current projects include case studies of contemporary Chinese businesses and a comparative study of higher education in China, Europe and the United States. He has also lectured widely in other universities. He gave a talk at PolyU titled 'Educating Leaders: Challenges for Hong Kong and Greater China in the 21st Century' in April 2010, providing valuable advice for the revitalization of undergraduate learning and development programme. He is Honorary Visiting Professor at Peking University, Nanjing University, Chongqing University, and Fudan University. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Humanities.
Mr Thomas Kwok Ping-kwong is currently Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties (SHKP). He has a Bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering from Imperial College, University of London and a Master's Degree in Business Administration from The London Business School, University of London. Under his leadership, SHKP is committed to offering the finest developments and setting new standards for the industry. He is keen on protecting the environment and has been instrumental in introducing green building technology through various channels. SHKP was one of the first to support the government's Green Building Policy, and it collaborated with PolyU researchers to help promote green research and applications, including the development of energy-saving, green facilities for International Commerce Centre. Despite his busy schedule, Mr Kwok has been active in public service for over two decades. He is currently a government-appointed member of the Commission on Strategic Development and a non-official member of the Provisional Minimum Wage Commission. He is also a Member of the Standing Committee of the Ninth Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference Shanghai Committee. Mr Kwok received a Silver Bauhinia Star from the government in 2007 for service to the community. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Engineering.
Professor Ida Sather Martinson has been Professor of Nursing at the University of California, San Francisco since 1982 and was formerly Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Nursing and Health Sciences at PolyU. She is particularly concerned about the health and well-being of children. The many topics researched and written about by her cover care of children with advanced cancer, impact of childhood cancer on the child and family, hospice approaches to pediatric care and family nursing. During her four-year tenure as Department Head at PolyU, the University has greatly benefited from her extensive international experience and her wealth of research on children with cancer. With a strong desire to provide assistance for impoverished rural children on the Chinese mainland, she co-founded China Service Ventures and serves as its Consultant, Nursing Advisor and Board Member. Her selfless dedication to the nursing profession has won her numerous awards, including the coveted honour of Sigma Theta Tau Audrey Hepburn Award in 1999. She will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Humanities.
