
[date]2010.07.12[/date]
[title]Leaders and Thinkers join China-Europa Forum at PolyU[/title]
The third Biennial Conference of the China-Europa Forum has kicked off today (12 July) at the Jockey Club Auditorium of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). The event is being held in Hong Kong for the very first time and it features an impressive list of European and Chinese VIP's coming from different sectors from both societies.
From Europe, Mr Herman Van Rompuy, President of the European Council, will deliver his remarks in a video. Dignitaries attending and speaking will include Mr Pat Cox, former President of the European Parliament; Mr Michel Rocard, former Prime Minister of France; Dr Gerhard Stahl, Secretary General of the Regional Committee of the European Union; Mrs Maria Castillo Fernandez, Head of the Office of the European Union in Hong Kong and Macau; Mr William Brauner, Chairman of European Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong; and Mr Pierre Calame, President of the China-Europa Forum Foundation.
From China, Professor Cheng Siwei, former Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress will deliver a keynote speech, and other speakers include Professor Xue Huanbai, Vice President of the Renmin University of China; Mr Ye Xiaowen, Party Secretary and Vice President of the Central Institute of Socialism; and Mr Yang Zigang, Deputy Commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affair of the People's Republic of China in the HKSAR.
From Hong Kong, Mr John Tsang, Financial Secretary of the HKSAR Government will officiate at the opening. Other speaking and officiating guests include Ms Florence Hui, Under Secretary for Home Affairs; Mr Benjamin Fok, Board Member of Fok Ying Tung Foundation: Dr Patrick Ho, President of Asia Cultural Forum; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
This large-scale international conference has drawn nearly 700 participants from all over China and Europe, including senior government officials, political leaders, renowned academics and influential thinkers. The three-day Conference is themed on "Converse to Converge: Forging a Common Vision for Chinese and European Societies". It is jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, the Renmin University of China, the China-Europa Forum Foundation and the Asian Cultural Forum, and supported by the Charles Léopold Mayer Foundation for Human Progress, the Fok Ying Tong Foundation, Office of the European Union in Hong Kong and Macau, the Home Affairs Bureau and the Central Policy Unit of the HKSAR Government, the Municipal Government of Sichuan Province; and the China Energy Fund Committee.
The Forum aims to bridge the Chinese and European societies by sharing knowledge and experiences; to take common challenges for the development of a legitimate, democratic and efficient global community; to make joint efforts for the global governance founded on bilateral, plurilateral or multilateral dialogues amongst major regional entities, with the view of ensuring a harmonious and peaceful world in solidarity. During the three-day Conference, Chinese and European participants will be grouped under nine themes, four common challenges and 60 groups to discuss on a wide range of issues which are of common interest to both Chinese and European societies.
To symbolize the harmonious and continuing dialogue among Chinese and European participants, the opening was serenaded by a mini-concert of fusion music performed by the China-Europa Forum Ensemble, composed of musicians among participants. For further details about the China-Europa Forum, please click on its official website at URL: http://www.china-europa-forum.net/.
