
[date]2011.01.20[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion talent presents creative works in Knitwear Symphony 2011[/title]
Dr Judyanna Ng, Senior Lecturer of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), displayed her innovative design in an extraordinary and glamorous knitwear fashion show in Hong Kong "Knitwear Symphony 2011" staged yesterday (19 January) at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
Organized by the Knitwear Innovation and Design Society, the event aimed to showcase Hong Kong designers' talents and capabilities and to reinforce the city's position as the world's leading knitwear sourcing centre. It featured the latest knitwear collections of Dr Judyanna Ng and four other renowned local designers, including Mr Walter Ma, Ms Florence Tang, Ms Dora Chu and Mr Baldwin Pui.
Dr Ng's new knitwear collection is a good blend of intuitive and sophisticated technology. The theme is based on the personal feeling of the designer from the 1980s. The asymmetric draping pieces from the Japanese designers of the time are expressed by the knitting pieces from the latest, innovative whole garment technology from Shima Seiki's Computerized Flat Knitting Machine SWG-X to produce beautifully-shaped, high-quality products which conform perfectly to the body for improving comfort and offering an elegant silhouette. Also knitted by the latest Shima Seiki Intarsia Knitting Machine MACH2SIG, the next to skin pieces are knitted in 3-D stripes intarsia pattern with the blended extra fine merino wool with rayon viscose and highlight with metalized filament yarns. That creates the transparencies and openwork layers to review the beauty of body and the glamorous look of the decade, while 3-D chunky outer coats and capes with weightless, soft and fluffy mohair or boucle yarn are worn on top to complete the winter look.
Colours are rich and retro-inspired. The main colours contain a range of brown from dark brown to cool-coffee brown, along with the mauves tones of ash rose, sludgy lilac brown, warm with port mid-tones. A green cast like the peacock green and the unusual pale oriental stone are used to highlight the collection, while the antique lurex yarn provides a subtle metallic sheen to individual pieces.
Dr Ng's research and design interest is in the relationship between fashion and social/cultural context, fashion and knitwear design, as well as embroidery and accessories design. She obtained her Master's degree in Fashion from Domus Academy in Milan and PhD from PolyU in 2004. Dr Ng has been invited to present her collection in the Knitwear Symphony for two consecutive years since 2009. In 2010, her collection was showcased in the 16th SpinExpo Shanghai and Second SpinExpo New York. Dr Ng is currently the coordinator of the new specialism in Knitwear Design with Technology under PolyU's Bachelor degree programme in Fashion and Textiles.
More than 1,200 local and overseas fashion experts and representatives from the industry were drawn to the event.
