
[date]2010.12.20[/date]
[title]Celebrating the Half Century of Physiotherapy Education in Hong Kong[/title]
The Department of Rehabilitation Sciences (RS) of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which is also the sole provider of physiotherapy tertiary education in Hong Kong, has joined hands with the Hong Kong Physiotherapy Association and the Hong Kong Physiotherapy Concern Group in celebrating 50 years of physiotherapy education in the city. 
The golden jubilee celebration was kicked off by Professor Gabriel Leung, Under Secretary for Food and Health, Professor Philip Chan, Deputy President and Provost of PolyU, and other guests at an on-campus ceremony held on 17 December. On this auspicious occasion, Dr Margot Skinner, Executive Member of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy (WCPT) also delivered a talk via video link immediately after the ceremony. This event has provided a forum for clinicians, researchers, academics and students to exchange views on the latest developments in physiotherapy and rehabilitation.   
To add colour to this celebration, the organizers also hosted a Physiotherapy Health Promotion Day 2010 on the PolyU campus on 18 December. A series of health talks and health screening tests were arranged and open to the public after an official opening convened by Ms Priscilla Poon, President of Hong Kong Physiotherapy Association. The health topics covered at the talks included sports for children, elderly health care, office ergonomics and sports injuries. Various physical assessments on balance, muscle performance, cardiopulmonary function, agility, foot care and flexibility would alert the public to attend to their personal health.  
Currently PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences is the sole provider of undergraduate and postgraduate professional education for physiotherapists in Hong Kong. Its Physiotherapy programme places emphasis on translational and multidisciplinary research, which underpins the evidence-based practices forming the skeleton of our education programmes. The majority of physiotherapists practising in Hong Kong are graduates of PolyU.
The development of physiotherapy education in Hong Kong has come a long way. The Hong Kong Physiotherapy School was opened in 1960 and in 1964 the School was relocated to Queen Elizabeth Hospital. In 1978, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic established the Institute of Medical and Health Care and admitted physiotherapy students for its Professional Diploma in Physiotherapy. The Institute was later re-structured, and the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences was formed and admitted its first cohort of students for its BSc in Physiotherapy programme in 1991. In 1998, the BSc in Physiotherapy was further upgraded to BSc (Hons) in Physiotherapy. Over the years, PolyU and its forerunners have groomed over 2,000 physiotherapy entry-level practitioners and over 500 postgraduate physiotherapy graduates.
