
[date]2010.11.26[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (26 November) paid tribute to some 50 dedicated staff members for their outstanding achievements in teaching, research and scholarly activities, services and overall contribution.
The Awards are grouped in the categories of "President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement", the "Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement" and the "Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff". They are presented by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):- Dr Li Dechao, Assistant Professor, Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies
Dr Li Dechao adopts a teaching philosophy that emphasizes the importance of empowering students to raise questions and search for answers autonomously under proper guidance. Heã€€encourages his students to develop their ability to self-reflect, to challenge predominant values and to articulate counter views. Although he has joined PolyU for only three years, Dr Li's lively teaching style and encouraging attitude make his lectures among the most popular ones in the department.
- Dr Grace Ngai, Associate Professor, Department of Computing   Since joining PolyU in 2002, Dr Grace Ngai has constantly proved herself a passionate teacher who cares deeply about her students. In addition to teaching, Dr Ngai is a strong believer in the transformative power of an all-round education to achieve social equality and justice. She believes that students can learn invaluable lessons from serving others and her service-learning projects have taken students to serve deprived children in Hong Kong and rural areas on the Chinese mainland.
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):- Professor Ni Yi-qing, Professor, Department of Civil and Structural Engineering
A highly acclaimed expert in civil and structural engineering, Professor Ni Yi-qing is the lead Consultant in developing 'structural health monitoring' systems for mega-structures such as the Sutong Bridge crossing the Yangtze River and the Guangzhou New TV Tower. His contributions earned him the Gold Medal and the Grand Prize of the 37th International Exhibition of Inventions, New Techniques and Products in Geneva and the Golden Prize of the 11th China International Industry Fair in Shanghai.
Overall Contribution (Individual):- Ms Cherry Ng, Technical Officer, English Language Centre (ELC)
Since joining ELC in 2006, Ms Cherry Ng was responsible for developing and implementing the English Language Graduating Students' Language Proficiency Assessment (GSLPA). With remarkable ingenuity and dedication, Ms Ng, together with her colleagues, has successfully developed the GSLPA online systems of enrolment, test delivery and marking which now work seamlessly. Her overall contribution to the GSLPA team and the ELC has been tremendous.
Services (Team):- Dr Zhu Xinhua, Dr Chan Wing-sat, Ms Loretta K.W. Sze, Mrs Karen M.C. Ma Lau, Mr Josef Chan Chi-leung, Dr Ken S.K. Cheng, Mr Yeung Kwan, Mr Stephen Chung-yip Ho, Mr Hui Him-man, Dr Li Wai, Ms Karen W. Wong, Ms Tang Tsz Ching, Ms Chow Oi Han, Miss Leung Suk-kwan and Mr Chan Kin Ming, Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies (CBS)
Led by Dr Zhu Xinhua, the Language Testing Unit of CBS provides high professional testing services to the University and to Hong Kong society. The Graduating Students' Language Proficiency Assessment-Chinese Strand (GSLPA-Chinese) is widely recognized within the tertiary education community in Hong Kong, and the Language Testing Unit is regarded as a pioneer in language exit testing. To strive for continuous improvement, the Unit has also developed an international-standard quality management system, and was award ISO9001 in January 2010.
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty / School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. Exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
 
