
[date]2011.05.20[/date]
[title]PolyU receives HK$1M software and equipment donation from Mitsubishi[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently received a donation of equipment worth more than HK$1 million from Mitsubishi Electric Automation (Hong Kong) Limited (Mitsubishi) to support students' learning of intelligent factory automation technology, including energy saving, energy efficiency, which is one of the hot areas in the Pearl River Delta Region.
The donation also saw the establishment of the PolyU/IC - Mitsubishi Electric Intelligent Factory Automation (iFA) Centre at PolyU's Industrial Centre (IC). A Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Mr Katsuyuki Tomizawa, Chairman and Managing Director of Mitsubishi Electric Automation (China) Limited and Mitsubishi Electric Automation (Hong Kong) Limited, and Professor Philip C. H. Chan, PolyU Deputy President and Provost at a special ceremony held earlier (17 May).
Professor Chan expressed deep gratitude towards Mitsubishi for their benefaction and support to the University. He said, "Mitsubishi is a global leader in the manufacture and sales of electrical and electronic equipment for home, commercial and industrial use. The software and equipment donated by Mitsubishi will greatly enhance our learning environment and enable our students to understand and learn the intelligent factory automation technology which is highly demanded by the factories in the Pearl River Delta Region."
In addition to enhancing PolyU's learning environment, Mitsubishi will further support and sponsor PolyU students to participate in a national automation skills competition which will be held in Tianjin, China this summer. Six students will be receiving training at PolyU/IC - Mitsubishi Electric iFA Centre on the building of energy efficient and saving automation system. Students will then design and build an energy saving and efficient automation system to compete with more than 50 student teams from different universities and colleges on the Chinese mainland. Mitsubishi will sponsor PolyU students for their expenses during their stay in Tianjin.
