
[date]2011.01.11[/date]
[title]PolyU confers University Fellowship on 8 distinguished personalities[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (11 January) conferred the honorary title of University Fellowship upon eight distinguished personalities to pay tribute to their significant contributions to the University and the community.
Presided over by the Honourable Marjorie Yang, Chairman of the University Council, the conferment ceremony was held at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus. The recipients were also warmly greeted by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong and other senior staff members of the University.
The list of distinguished recipients comprises entrepreneurs, philanthropists, renowned designer and painter, mainland government official and alumni. They are (in alphabetical order of last name):
Mr Victor Cha Mou ZingCurrently Deputy Chairman and Managing Director of HKR International Limited, Mr Cha is a highly successful entrepreneur with extensive knowledge and rich experience in industry and business. He has staunchly supported the development of PolyU by serving on its Council from 2003 to 2010, during which time the University has benefited greatly from his wise counsel.
Ms Fiona Cheung Sum Yu, MHMs Cheung is Chairman of Forest Zone Limited, a company with businesses ranging from real estate investment, stock trading, trading to entertainment production. In her capacity as the Vice Chairman of PolyU's Student Competitiveness Development Committee, she is keen to help students broaden their horizons and sharpen their competitive edge.
Ms Katherine Hung Siu LinA PolyU alumna and currently Director of Li Ka Shing Foundation Limited, Ms Hung has dedicated herself to the voluntary service of different organizations and has undertaken various public duties over the years. She is now a member of the University Court, and also served as a Steering Committee Member of PolyU's Institute for Enterprise from 2000 to 2011.
Mr Freeman Lau Siu Hong, BBSMr Lau, Partner of Kan &amp; Lau Design Consultants, is a renowned, home-grown designer who is committed to enhancing the status of Hong Kong design in the international arena and promoting design education. He has been appointed Adjunct Professor of PolyU's School of Design and was honoured with the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Awards in 2001.
Mr Liu Sing Cheong, JPGraduated from the then Hong Kong Polytechnic with an Advanced Higher Diploma in General Practice Surveying, Mr Liu is founder and Chairman of Evergreen Real Estate Consultants Limited and MyTopHome (China) Holdings Limited in Guangzhou. He was named an Outstanding PolyU Alumni in 2003 and is now an Honorary Fellow and Adjunct Professor of PolyU's Department of Building and Real Estate.
Professor Liu YingliProfessor Liu is Science and Technology Advisor to the Mayor of Shenzhen and Chairman of the Shenzhen side of the Steering Group on Shenzhen/Hong Kong Cooperation in Innovation and Technology. He has facilitated PolyU's admission to the Shenzhen Virtual University Park, making PolyU the first local tertiary institution to start the project of constructing a base on commercialization, training and research, as well as to set up facilities for the development of a state key laboratory.
Mr Louis Mak Law MoMr Mak, President of the Lingdong Painting Society, is a passionate amateur painter, while at the same time a philanthropic businessman. In 2009, he and his wife established the Louis Mak Charitable Foundation, which co-ordinates the donation of all proceeds from the sale of his paintings to charity. PolyU is one of the many organizations which has benefited from Mr Mak's generosity.
Mr Yau Wah YauGraduated from the then Hong Kong Polytechnic with a Higher Certificate in Electronic Engineering in 1983, Mr Yau is founder and Managing Director of the Realink Group. He has been playing an active role in PolyU's fund-raising activities in recent years. Apart from donating to the University, he has also accepted the invitation to serve as Chairman of the University's Fund-raising Committee in 2010.
Since its introduction in 2000, PolyU has conferred University Fellowship on a total of 55 distinguished personalities.
