
[date]2011.02.12[/date]
[title]PolyU wins and sets new record for Most Supportive Group Award in Hong Kong Marathon again[/title]
With 3,300 students, staff, alumni and their family members and friends joining the running team of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), it has set another new record for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2011, to be held on 20 February, by sending forth the largest team ever since the international event was launched.
An Award Presentation Ceremony was held during the Marathon Expo which took place today (12 February) at Victoria Park. Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President, and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership), fanned by PolyU staff and students, received the Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award on behalf of PolyU.
"We are delighted to see that the number of PolyU participants has again surpassed all expectations. We hope that the University's participation in this community-wide event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni, as well as encourage the PolyU community to pursue a healthy life," said Mr Yang.
This year, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong will take up a new challenge to participate in the 1.8-kilometre Leaders Cup, showing his support to the 3,300-strong PolyU-Essentiale Running Team and feeling the excitement of the sporting event.
To help the participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, a series of informative training seminars and tailor-made practice sessions have been organized to equip them with the necessary knowledge about marathon running so that they can give their best.
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre and PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences have set up a booth at the Marathon Expo where visitors could receive free test and assessment in core stability, flexibility and running gait. Moreover, practising physiotherapists and physiotherapy students will also be there to offer professional advice for visitors to help them achieve better results in the Marathon.
The organizing committee of the PolyU-Essentiale Running Team also expressed sincere thanks to sanofi-aventis, Nike, Gatsby and Hung Fook Tong for their generous sponsorship for the team and the race.
PolyU formed its debut running squad for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon in 2009. Last year, the number of participants registered for the PolyU running team soared to more than 3,100, forming the biggest participating team ever for the event.
