
[date]2010.12.15[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts the First International Conference on Sustainable Urbanization[/title]
More than 300 leading experts, researchers and industry practitioners from over 25 countries and regions are gathering in Hong Kong from 15 to 17 December 2010 to participate in the First International Conference on Sustainable Urbanization (ICSU 2010) organized by the Faculty of Construction and Land Use of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
The three-day Conference was officially kicked off today (15 December) at Harbour Grand Kwoloon by Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, and Professor J.G. Teng, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use. Speaking at the opening ceremony, Professor Tong said, "Promoting sustainable urban development is one of our top priorities. We hope this Conference will contribute to making Hong Kong a greener city and a knowledge/ technology centre in this important area."
Four prominent international and local experts have been invited to deliver keynote speeches at the Conference. They include Dr Qiu Baoxing, Vice Minister, Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, People's Republic of China; Mrs Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, JP, Secretary for Development, Development Bureau, HKSAR Government; Professor Martin A. Green, Scientia Professor, University of New South Wales, Australia; and Dr Willie Lai, Chairman, Ruentex Engineering &amp; Construction Co., Limited. The Honourable Ms Marjorie Yang, Council Chairman of PolyU, will also deliver a speech at the banquet on the second day of the Conference.
According to the organizer, massive high-density urbanization programmes are under way in many parts of the world, often in regions where the available land and resources are limited relative to the size of the population, thereby posing many challenges for the society. Such challenges include the provision of effective urban infrastructures (e.g. transport systems), adequate housing, sufficient energy and water supplies, a clean environment, and caring community support systems in a sustainable manner.
ICSU2010 therefore provides an international forum for the scientific/engineering community to examine these challenges, and to find effective solutions to ensure a sustainable process of urbanization as well as sustainable management of urbanized areas.
The Faculty is grateful to The Environment and Conservation Fund and K.C. Wong Education Foundation for providing financial support to overseas and mainland keynote and invited speakers. Other sponsors and supporting organizations include:
Diamond SponsorsRoad King Infrastructure LimitedSun Hung Kai Properties
Platinum SponsorsChun Wo Development Holdings LimitedGammon Construction LimitedPaul Y. Engineering Group Limited
Gold SponsorsArchitecture Design and Research Group LtdChina State Construction International Holdings LimitedSino GroupVantage International (Holdings) Limited
For more details and programme of the Conference, please visit its official website: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/fclu/ICSU2010/
About PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Land Use
The Faculty of Construction and Land Use, the only one of its kind in Hong Kong, concentrates on preparing graduates for a wide range of professions in the construction industry. The Faculty has also accumulated significant strength and critical mass in various research areas. For eight consecutive years since 2001/2002, the Faculty ranked first among all local universities in terms of funding from Research Grants Council's General Research Fund for the disciplines of "civil engineering, surveying, building and construction", confirming its leading position in Hong Kong in construction-related research. The research outputs have had significant impact on industry and society, both in Hong Kong and beyond.
