
[date]2011.04.17[/date]
[title]PolyU receives software and system donation from the industry[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently received a software and system donation worth more than HK$700,000 from Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited (HAESL), with further support from Metrology Software Products Limited (MSP). The donation would enable PolyU's Industrial Centre (IC) to further develop the multiple axes machining of turbine blades in aero engine maintenance.
A donation ceremony was held earlier on PolyU campus with the presence of Mr Mick Brown, General Manager, Operations, HAESL; Mr Peter Hammond, Director, MSP; Mr Tony Brown, Director, MSP; Ir Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development); and Dr Stephen O'Brien, PolyU Director of Industrial Centre.
Addressing the ceremony, Ir Professor Alex Wai thanked HAESL for their ardent support. "We are delighted to have HAESL's donation and MSP's support in lifting our facility and technology in multiple axes machining. It will benefit the aero engine maintenance industry as well as other industries. The donation will also help enhance the facility of our Industrial Centre and thus improve the learning environment for our students as well as provide support to the University's research and development.", he said.
The software developed by MSP can automate part location to a very high degree of accuracy. It involves the development of new 5-axis probing techniques on machine tools and facilitates new ways of thinking about part fixture for the turbine blades. The new software and system will provide the Centre with a powerful tool for developing new technologically advanced solutions for the world's most difficult parts in a more accurate way in shorter time than using traditional methods.
The Centre has recently achieved a breakthrough in aero engine maintenance by applying a mathematics-based software to the multiple axes machining of turbine blades. This important breakthrough will greatly reduce the scrap rates seen in existing maintenance processes used in turbine blade repair. To further enhance the Centre's capability and contribution in this area, HAESL agreed to donate the HK$700,000 worth software to the Centre and invited MSP to provide technical support and training to the Centre.
A joint venture between Rolls-Royce Group plc, Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Limited (HAECO), a member of the Swire Group and SIA Engineering Company (SIAEC), HAESL has been collaborating closely with PolyU IC on many engineering projects to enhance and improve business performance since 2002. In 2011 and 2012, HAESL will be recruiting additional staff to meet growing industry maintenance demands. PolyU IC will deliver essential customized training for new HAESL recruits as well as continue to explore new and improved aero component repair methods.
