
[date]2010.11.23[/date]
[title]PolyU BRE pays tribute to Outstanding Alumni[/title]
The Department of Building and Real Estate (BRE) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its first Outstanding BRE Alumni Award to two distinguished alumni to pay tribute to their remarkable professional accomplishments and significant contributions to their alma mater and the community. The two awardees are: Mr Thomas Ho Hang-kwong, Property Director of MTR Corporation Limited, and Mr Ng Wing-hong, Director of Strong Fine Holdings Company Limited. (Please refer to the Appendix for their brief biographies.)
The awards were presented by Ir Professor Teng Jin-guang, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Land Use, at the Award Presentation Ceremony held yesterday (22 November) at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus. The joy of the event extended to the Celebration Dinner held in the same evening at Regal Kowloon Hotel. Speaking at the Dinner, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said, "As one of oldest departments of PolyU, BRE and its predecessors has dedicated its strenuous efforts in providing high-quality training and nurtured a large pool of talents for the industry over the past 70 years. I am proud to say, our BRE alumni have played a significant role in the development of Hong Kong and received public recognition for their remarkable contributions and achievements."
Professor Geoffrey Shen, Head of BRE, said the event would not be successful without the support of the judges, the sponsors, the proposers and the Selection Organising Committee. He expressed special thanks to the five-member Panel of Judges which is chaired by Ir Professor Fred Ng Sai-ho, Consultant, DLS Management Limited and Hong Kong and Babtie (Asia) Consulting Engineers, Singapore. Other members (in alphabetical order) include: Professor Liu Sing-cheong, Chairman, My Top Home (China) Holdings Limited and Evergreen Real Estate Consultants Limited; Ms Juliana Lo, President, BRE Departmental Alumni Association of PolyU; Professor Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, President, Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; and Mr Marco Wu Moon-hoi, Vice-Chairman, Hong Kong Housing Society.
