
[date]2011.03.09[/date]
[title]PolyU nurtures future entrepreneurs[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) awarded ten winning teams of the Global Student Challenge (GSC): PolyU Pre-Challenge 2010/11 on 9 March at an awards presentation ceremony on the university campus. The champion will have a chance to join the GSC finals.
The GSC: PolyU Pre-Challenge, an annual programme launched since 2001, is a business/development plan competition which aims to stimulate PolyU students' innovation potential and provide them with a platform to translate their creative ideas into sound business ventures.
PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) Professor Judy Tsui said, "I am pleased to see that more multi-disciplinary teams have expressed an interest in this programme. This Pre-Challenge helps foster entrepreneurial spirit among the younger generation and prepare them for the ever-changing and highly competitive business world."
This year, 30 multi-disciplinary teams comprising a total of 103 students participated in the first round competition, devising innovative ideas on products, management and/or services. 18 teams had been shortlisted for Round II, from which three teams had been identified for joining the Final Round. They presented their business proposals in detail to the panel of judges, comprising Mr Tony Choi, Executive Director, Hong Kong Garment Manufacturing Company Ltd.; Mr Albert Ip, Managing Director of Investments, Asia Pacific, Private Banking and Investment Group, Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd.; Mr Anthony Wong, Group Chief Technology Officer, Integrated Display Technology Ltd.; and Mr Andrew Young, Director of Partnership Development, PolyU.
The contestants were required to formulate their business plans under the guidance of an academic advisor and professional trainers. Training workshops and coaching sessions on relevant topics such as "Business Plan Writing Skills" and "Financial Planning for Business Plan" were provided to the contesting students free of charge. 
Diamond, Platinum and Gold prizes were awarded basing on the following five judging criteria: innovation and creative concept, commercial viability and market potential, technology novelty and uniqueness, soundness of business/development plan and presentation skills. The team with the Diamond Award will be representing Hong Kong to join the GSC finals. The GSC is the global business plan competition hosted by PolyU for secondary and university students from around the world.
Diamond, Platinum and Gold awards winning teams received a trophy and a cash prize of $25,000, $20,000 and $15,000 respectively while other three first runners-up received the Excellence Awards of $5,000 and other four second runners-up received the Merit Awards of $3,000 respectively.
The winning teams are as follows:
Diamond Award of Innovation: Phoenix Water Students: Anthony Chan Ying-san, Tse Lai-sze, Xiang Shihui Advisor: Dr Susana Yuen, Associate Professor, School of Accounting and Finance
Platinum Award of Innovation: B3Students: Lau Ka-lai, Lai Hiu-ying, Lo Wan-chi Advisor: Dr Simone Cheng, Lecturer, Department of Management and Marketing
Gold Award of Innovation: V-linkerStudents: Zhang Chen, Wang Chen, Shao Peiyuan Advisor: Dr Zhan Lingjing, Assistant Professor, Department of Management and Marketing
