
[date]2011.03.17[/date]
[title]PolyU hails Inauguration of High Achievers Club[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will provide more learning opportunities for gifted students to enrol for credit-bearing courses through its new "High Achievers Club" (HAC). The HAC was officially established today (16 March).
More than 100 secondary and primary students who are mostly winners and top-scorers of the territory-wide Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition and Australian Mathematics Competition have joined the inaugural HAC. The inauguration ceremony was officiated at by Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership). Many secondary and primary school principals also attended the event.
Professor Tong said, "Our goal of setting up the High Achievers Club is clear, that is to help gifted students realize their full potential by providing them with a thorough and coherent curriculum. We believe that gifted students could start university early if they are given proper guidance and encouragement."
The HAC will provide opportunities for gifted students to enrol on special programmes run by PolyU. Student participants could also enjoy exemption of credits for enrolling on PolyU programme in future, enabling them to complete the first degree early.
In addition, PolyU scholars would help students explore and enhance their research capabilities, thereby arousing their interests in scientific research.
Last year, PolyU partnered with the Hong Kong Academy for Gifted Education to offer four gifted programmes in Mechanical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Applied Social Sciences and English Language which were well received by the first cohort of New Senior Secondary students. To further develop students' abilities and talent, the HAC plans to introduce more programmes later this year. These include Biology, Physics, Chemistry, English, Putonghua, Computer Engineering, Psychology, and Economics.
