
[date]2010.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU presents Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Knowledge Management Research Centre has organized the Hong Kong Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award for three years and has successfully helped to bring local organizations to be listed alongside with the world's most successful organizations in knowledge management.
This year, the Centre has also introduced the Outstanding Knowledge Management Project Award to individuals or teams who have designed and launched knowledge Management (KM) projects successfully in specific areas of an organization. (Please refer to Appendix for lists of winners.)
Officiated at the Award Presentation Ceremony today (29 November) were: Mr Stephen Mak, Deputy Government Chief Information Officer, Office of the Government Chief Information Officer, HKSAR; Mr Les Hales, President of The Hong Kong Knowledge Management Society; and Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President. Mr David Moh from the Singapore Armed Forces of Ministry of Defence of Singapore Government, which is the Overall Winner of the Asian MAKE Award 2010, was also invited to share their KM experience with the audience.
Speaking at the Ceremony, Mr Yang said, "We are happy to see the participation from individuals and groups of local small and medium enterprises, as well as one company from the Chinese mainland joining the first Outstanding KM Project Award. We hope that organizations on the Chinese mainland will soon enter the Asian MAKE Award in the near future."
The Global MAKE award is an international benchmark of best practice knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management. The MAKE Award was introduced in Hong Kong by the PolyU Knowledge Management Research Centre in 2008.
PolyU is a pioneer in advocating KM in Hong Kong. The University has introduced the territory's first Master of Science in KM to nurture talents for the profession and provides consultancy and training services to the government and the local business community. It is also taking the lead in conducting research relating to KM and knowledge systems engineering, while building international collaboration in the field.
