
[date]2011.03.01[/date]
[title]Australian Mathematics Trust appoints PolyU to run Competition[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been entrusted by the Australian Mathematics Trust to run the highly popular Australian Mathematics Competition (AMC) in Hong Kong with effect from 2011.
Professor Peter Taylor, Executive Director of the Australian Mathematics Trust, made a special trip to Hong Kong to sign the collaboration agreement with PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Professor Walter Yuen at a special ceremony held yesterday (28 February) on the university campus.
Professor Yuen said PolyU was honoured to partner with the Australian Mathematics Trust in running the long-standing competition in the territory. He added that winners and top scorers of the competition will be entitled to join the gifted programmes offered by PolyU during the Easter Holidays and summer vacation.
Professor Taylor said the Australian Mathematics Trust, a non-profit making institution under the Trusteeship of the University of Canberra, was very pleased to have this new association with PolyU. He noted that the two institutions have a common goal of enriching the standard of students through their ability to deal with challenging problems, and that the Trust looks forward to a long-term partnership.
The ceremony also saw the presentation of prizes to winners of the 2010 Australian Mathematics Competition in Hong Kong. 98 local students have been awarded High Distinction, 14 Prizes and 4 Medals. Internationally, there were 25 medallists for junior division (Grade 7-8) and 21 for intermediate division (Grade 9-10). St Paul's Co-Educational College scooped three medals and King Ling College gained one.
Two outstanding students from La Salle Primary School attempted AMC at their current level and challenged a higher level (Grade 7). Gabriel Wong Chun-hei (Grade 6) achieved High Distinction in both levels and Harry Yu Hoi-wai (Grade 5) obtained Prize. He also gained a perfect score in upper primary division in which only six primary students were managed to achieve this in AMC internationally.
