
[date]2010.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU China South City Invitation Golf Tournament kicks off[/title]
With the support of some 20 business and industry trade associations, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will organize "PolyU China South City Invitation Golf Tournament" on 14 December (Tuesday) in Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan to raise funds for the long-term development of the University.
This year, China South City Holdings Limited is the title sponsor of the event. More than 60 teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, PolyU alumni and friends have already signed up for the game.
A press conference on the Tournament was held today (1 December) on the PolyU campus with the presence of Mr Lee Yuen-fat, Chairman of Organizing Committee and Chairman of Ka Shui International Holdings Limited; Mr Cliff Sun Kai-lit, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries and Director of China South City Holdings Limited; and Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
Speaking at the press conference, Professor Yuen expressed her sincerest thanks to all parties involved for making the event possible. She said, "PolyU relies greatly on the support from our friends and partners in business and industries in realizing our vision for the well-being of the community and students' all-round development. Once again, we are most privileged to have more than 20 business and industry trade associations in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland to be supporting organizations and to take part in the Tournament."
The Tournament is organized by a Committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Lee Yuen-fat. Other members of the Organizing Committee included Mr Patrick Luk, Managing Director of Legend Jewelry; Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; Mr William Chan, Managing Director of Lapton Electric &amp; Machinery Limited; Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; and Dr Dennis Ng, Managing Director of Polaris Jewellery Manufacturing Limited.
During the game, participants will be competing for both team awards "Trade Association Cup" and "Company Cup" as well as individual awards "Alumni Cup" and "Ladies Cup".
This event will also help to promote friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, apart from raising funds for the University. The net proceeds will be contributed towards the development of the new academic structure to be implemented in 2012, as well as the University's long-term development and students' all-round development.
