
[date]2011.01.22[/date]
[title]PolyU offers a taste of university life for 400 students from Sham Shui Po and Tin Shui Wai[/title]
Some 400 secondary school students from Sham Shui Po and Tin Shui Wai districts were warmly welcomed by staff and students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) during their visit to the University today (22 January). They were given the opportunity to have a taste of university life by participating in a series of activities organized by the Student Affairs Office, with the support of various academic departments.
Known as "PolyU Serving the Community Day", this whole-day event sought to inspire the secondary school students to aim high and set goals for their academic pursuit and personal development. A wide range of activities, including talks, training workshops,  demonstrations, sports games, guided tours of the campus and laboratories, was arranged. PolyU student ambassadors also shared their campus life experiences with the participants.
On the same day, PolyU officially kicked off the debut of "Community Service Learning Programme (CSLP) in Sham Shui Po" in a special ceremony held on the university campus. Officiating at the ceremony were: Mr Cheung Hing-wah, Deputy Director of Social Welfare (Services), and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "CSLP in Sham Shui Po benefits both our students and the needy in the community. Through participating in the projects, our students could not only enhance their professional knowledge and personal skills, but also develop a stronger sense of social responsibility. The service recipients in the community could benefit from the care and support provided by the student volunteers."
Ms Jess Shek, a visually impaired MA graduate of PolyU, was also invited to share her experience in pursuing further studies and in community service against all odds with over 400 students and guests during the ceremony.
CSLP in Sham Shui Po is a new initiative organized with the combined efforts of PolyU, Sham Shui Po District Social Welfare Office, non-government organizations (NGOs) and schools in the district. In 2010/11, over 700 PolyU student volunteers and staff members from different disciplines are being involved in some 30 service projects falling into six categories, namely Happy Seniors, Technology &amp; Education, Health Care, Social Integration, Caring for School Children, and Improvement of Living Environment.
Through this extension of PolyU's Community Service Learning Programme, students are encouraged to go into a district to understand more of the community needs, to communicate with and care for the needy people, and contribute their professional and skills to serving them.
The Community Service Learning Programme was launched in 2004 with the aim of nurturing PolyU students' sense of social responsibility through serving the community with their professional knowledge and skills. Over the years, the Programme has sent forth some 6,800 students and staff serving more than 490,000 needy people in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and overseas.
To further instill the sense of social responsibility in PolyU students, the University plans to incorporate "service-learning" into the new four-year curriculum starting 2012/2013.
