
[date]2011.01.05[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics Symposium[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) School of Accounting and Finance hosted on 4-5 January the JCAE (Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics) Symposium 2011.
PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) and JCAE Consulting Editor Professor Judy Tsui strongly encouraged that research should inform teaching. "While it is great that we conduct high quality accounting research, our undergraduate students should be taught how these research findings impact accounting practices and policies," she said.
Professor S.P. Kothari from MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) Sloan School of Management discoursed on The Role of Accounting in the Financial Crisis: Lessons for the Future, and commented that accounting had a role to play in contributing to the financial crisis. Since "accounting is about the past and valuation is about the future", he called for "standards accompanied by enforcement, sound auditing and greater vigilance". Other featured speakers included Professor Eli Bartov of New York University, Professor Ferdinand A. Gul of PolyU, Professor Bikki Jaggi of Rutgers University, Professor Michel Magnan of Concordia University, Dr Jeanne Ng of CLP Holdings, Professor Gordon Richardson of University of Toronto, Professor Katherine Schipper of Duke University, and Professor Jerold Zimmerman of University of Rochester.
Prior to the Symposium was the JCAE Doctoral Consortium held on 3 January. It was a day of interactive seminar where doctoral students and junior faculty members interacted with professors of international standing and exchanged research ideas with their peers.
Professor Eli Bartov of New York University, Professor Katherine Schipper of Duke University, and Professor Jerold Zimmerman of University of Rochester cited examples about corporate governance and accounting, quantitative and qualitative information and stock price, and risk in financial reporting from their own research papers when elaborating on research methods and skills.
The Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics is a semi-annual publication dedicated to publishing high quality manuscripts that rigorously apply economics and legal theory to accounting / auditing with an emphasis on empirical research. In addition to its special focus on issues relevant to the Asia-Pacific region, the Journal also encourages submissions from countries outside the Asia-Pacific region in the following major areas related to accounting and auditing issues: financial contracts, corporate governance, capital markets, financial institutions and economics of organizations.
