
[date]2011.02.28[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented its Outstanding Student Awards to  distinguished full-time degree students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits at a ceremony held on campus today (28 February).
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong commended the awardees for their outstanding performance. "The award is a due recognition of students' academic achievement, strong leadership ability, personal qualities, as well as active involvement in extra-curricular activities and community services. The outstanding students today stand as shining examples of our success in nurturing all-round leaders for our society."
This year, the top award of "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" went to Miss Krystal Lee Yeuk-ying, a final-year student of BSc (Hons) in Surveying from the Faculty of Construction and Land Use.
Graduated from PolyU's Higher Diploma in Building Technology and Management (Surveying) with distinction in 2009, Krystal was admitted to the degree programme in surveying in the same year. She ranked first in class and was the winner of Sir Edward Youde Memorial Scholarship 2010/11, Wong Dun-king Scholarship 2009/10 and The Society of Builders, Hong Kong Scholarship 2008/09. Krystal is not only a high achiever in the Department, but also an active participant in sports and other co-curricular activities. She participated in the International Camp Counselor Program serving as Aquatics Assistant in Pennsylvania, US and had been to Hangzhou for a community service learning project. Under PolyU's Work-Integrated Education Programme, Krystal spent her summer in 2010 working as intern at Gammon Construction Limited.
The other five awardees, who are also full-time final-year students, are: 
Miss Cai Yu, Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles
Miss Luo Min, Faculty of Business
Mr Jin Shuang, Faculty of Engineering
Miss Chan Kit-chi, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences
Mr Denny Leung Ka-wai, Faculty of Humanities
Miss Cai Yu is studying Chemical Technology at the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology. She topped her class in her last three years of study and was on the Dean's Honours list in 2008/09 and 2009/10. She was also the winner of the PolyU Non-local Students Scholarship (Academic) from 2007/08 to 2010/11. Apart from actively serving PolyU and the community, she had been to the University of Western Sydney, Australia for an exchange programme.
Miss Luo Min is an accounting and finance student and was among the top two in class in the last three years of study. He won a number of scholarships including the PolyU Non-local Students Scholarship (Academic) for four consecutive years from 2007/08 to 2010/11 as well as Baker Tilly Hong Kong Excellence in Accounting Scholarship 2009/10 and HSBC Scholarship for Mainland Students 2009/10. She had been to the University of Birmingham, UK for an exchange programme.
Mr Jin Shuang is a final-year student doing a Double Degree in Business Administration and  Engineering. He ranked first in class and was awarded the HKSAR Government Scholarship for three consecutive years from 2008/09 to 2010/11 and HSBC Scholarship for Mainland Students from 2007/08 to 2009/10. He had been to Canada for an exchange programme and to Xian for an overseas placement under PolyU's "Preferred Graduate" Development Programme.
Miss Chan Kit-chi is a radiography student who ranked first in class in the past two years. She was the winner of the HKSAR Government Scholarship in 2009/10 and 2010/11 and Post-entry Scholarship for Current Students on UGC-funded Undergraduate Programmes in 2008/09 and 2009/10. In addition to keen participation in community services, Kit-chi also served as class representative in 2009/10 and Academic Secretary of Radiography Students' Society in 2008/09.
Mr Denny Leung Ka-wai is studying English Studies for the Professions. He was among the top three in class and won the Hang Seng Bank Scholarship in 2009/10. He also served as the Communications Officer of AIESEC in PolyU from 2008/09 to 2009/10. He had been to the University of Warwick, UK for an exchange programme and to Shanghai for an overseas internship at the HKSAR Economics and Trade Office.
Each award recipient is presented a certificate and a cash prize of HK$5,000 and their names are inscribed on a plaque on the PolyU campus.
PolyU's Outstanding Student Award is granted on an annual basis to full-time final-year students who excel in both academic and non-academic pursuits during their studies. Each academic department is allowed to nominate one candidate, who has to compete with other top students in the same faculty for the Award. Subsequently, the "Most Outstanding PolyU Student" is selected among the six awardees from different faculties as well as the two nominees from the School of Design and the School of Hotel and Tourism Management.
