
[date]2011.03.31[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Secondary School Principals' Day[/title]
More than 250 secondary school principals and teachers are joining the Secondary School Principals' Day organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (31 March) to keep abreast of the latest developments of the four-year undergraduate curriculum.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, hoped that the activity would forge closer ties and enhance communication with the secondary school sector, enable participants to gain a better understanding of the needs of students under the New Senior Secondary (NSS) Curriculum, and facilitate PolyU's implementation of the four-year curriculum.
To help participants understand the implementation of NSS from different perspectives, Dr K. W. Cheung, Principal Assistant Secretary for Education of the HKSAR Government, and Mr Liu Ah-chuen, Chairman of Hong Kong Subsidized Secondary Schools Council, also shared their views on this occasion.
Another major purpose of this event is to give an update on PolyU's preparation for the four-year undergraduate system which is due to launch in 2012. The preparation work is progressing well and going according to schedule. These include recruitment of faculty members, formulation of admission requirements at the university and faculty/school level, design of core curriculum, and campus development projects.
PolyU's four-year curriculum has two distinct features: (1) preparing students for success in their chosen professions; and (2) nurturing students into all-round global citizens. Professor Tong anticipated PolyU graduates to make contribution to the society, to have the ability to cope with the changing environment, and to become "practical dreamers" of tomorrow.
Professor Walter W. Yuen, Vice President (Academic Development), Academic Secretary Mrs Nancy Tong who plays a key role in formulating the admission policy, Professor S. L. Ho, Chairman of Committee on Undergraduate Admissions, and Professor Daniel Shek, Chair Professor of Applied Social Sciences, who designed the leadership course, have shared with the participants the general framework of the new curriculum and answer their queries.
// 
// 
Some principals also stayed behind to attend the Grand Finale of the PolyU International Weeks, and toured around campus facilities, including laboratories of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing, the Smart Railway Research Laboratory of the Department of Electrical Engineering, and the House of Innovation.
Presentation files for download:
Experiencing NSS Curriculum, Learning Stories of Some Studentsby Dr K. W. Cheung, Principal Assistant Secretary for Education of the HKSAR Government
334新學制的反思by Mr Liu Ah-chuen, Chairman of Hong Kong Subsidized Secondary Schools Council
PolyU's 4-year undergraduate curriculumby Prof. Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development)
Entrance Requirementsby Prof. Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development)
Nurturing Holistic Development of University Students: Psychosocial Competencies and Service Learningby Professor Daniel Shek, Chair Professor of PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences
