
[date]2011.03.29[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 4th International Symposium of Intimate Apparel[/title]
Organized by the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Fourth International Symposium of Intimate Apparel was held today (29 March) on the PolyU campus to promote the exchange of the latest knowledge and development of intimate apparel among academics and industrialists. The event was supported by the world's leading lingerie and beachwear trade show organizer Eurovet as well as the Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association Ltd.
The theme of this year's Symposium was "Modern Shapewear" and it has brought together some 220 local and overseas lingerie experts to share their insights and experiences. It was kicked off by Professor Tao Xiao-ming, Head and Chair Professor of ITC, and Mr Kenneth Wong, Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association and Director ' Sales &amp; Marketing of Top Form Brassiere Mfg Co. Ltd.
Research and development on glamorous and functional shapewear has become the current focus of the intimate apparel industry. It brings about a reform in intimate apparel with advanced textile technologies and new designs. This symposium discussed the latest technology and development as well as the global market of modern shapewear. It sharpened the industry's competitive edge on product design and innovation in the global market.
Distinguished speakers were invited to share their ideas and experience. Professor Fan Jin-tu, Associate Head of ITC, spoke on "Perception of Beauty"; Mr Hiroshi Imai, President and Representative Director, Wacoal (Shanghai) R&amp;D Co., Ltd., talked about "Body Image and Body Shape"; Ms Michelle Rice, Global Director, Intimate Apparel &amp; Swimwear, Invista (HK) Ltd., spoke on "Global Markets of Shapewear"; and Ms Niki McMorrough, CEO &amp; Creative Director, Made by Niki Lingerie, delivered a talk on "Luxury Shapewear Design".
Established with strong industrial support in 2005, the Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel of ITC is the first lingerie institute in the Asia Pacific. Over the years, the Institute's research has reaped fruitful results and gained international reputation. Its graduates from the BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel are well sought after by the industry. Starting from 2008/09 academic year, the programme has been converted to a government-funded articulation programme. This milestone not only signifies the quality of the programme, but also charts a new chapter in the development of local tertiary education in lingerie.
Detailed information of the Symposium is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/symposium
