
[date]2011.03.04[/date]
[title]PolyU Opens its Samsung Digital Lab for Hospitality Technology and New Premises for its School of Hotel and Tourism Management[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to announce today (4 March) the opening of the expanded Samsung Digital Lab for Hospitality Technology and the new premises for its School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) in the former site of staff quarters in Tsimshatsui East.
Equipped with advanced computing facilities and specialized software for the industry, the expanded Samsung Digital Lab for Hospitality Technology is one of the major facilities in the new SHTM premises. It is officially opened today by Mr Alex Chung, Chief Operating Officer of Samsung Electronics Hong Kong Co. Ltd.; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Kaye Chon, Dean of SHTM and Chair Professor; and Mr Terence Ronson, Managing Director of Pertlink.
"The hospitality and tourism sector is a major pillar of Hong Kong's economy. As the leading provider of hospitality and tourism education in the Asia-Pacific region, SHTM has been instrumental in nurturing young professionals much sought after by the industry," said Mr Alex Chung. "Sharing a common vision to advancing educational development, Samsung has been working closely with PolyU in establishing and expanding the Samsung Digital Lab for Hospitality Technology for the good of students. We believe that the Lab will bring long-term benefits to students by providing them with the opportunity to learn and apply the latest information technology in the industry setting. We are also privileged to be able to inject creativity into hospitality and tourism education."
Professor Tong thanked Samsung for making this education partnership a remarkable success. "I believe the sponsorship will enable our students to keep abreast of the latest technology available in the industry and enhance their competitive edge. It will also give a fresh impetus to the SHTM's on-going efforts in the advancement of education development," he said. With classes regularly held in the Lab, and Executive Development Programmes making use of the facilities, a broad range of learners as well as researchers will also benefit from the use of this Lab.
Built around the generous sponsorship from Samsung Electronics, the Digital Lab is home to a wide range of computing and audio-visual equipment, including 67 sets of 15.6" wide screen notebooks, 40" Full HD LCD iDTVs, 4-in-1 colour multi-functional laser printers, projectors and blu-ray players. All computers are installed with advanced software products that facilitate teaching of subjects including lodging management, revenue management, financial management, convention and events management, E-business, hospitality technology management and data analysis for the industry.
The support of the industry is clearly of vital importance as a new chapter in the SHTM's development opened recently with staff and students moved into the new premises. Professor Kaye Chon and his team took the opportunity to introduce the new facilities to guests gathered together at the SHTM Open House function. They proudly showcased new facilities in the SHTM premises such as the Samsung Digital Lab for Hospitality Technology, Che-woo Lui Hotel and Tourism Resource Centre, Bistro 1979 (SHTM's training restaurant), Vinoteca Lab (wine lab) as well as various function rooms and lecture halls.
PolyU has undertaken a unique project over the past few years to develop dedicated premises for the SHTM to further enhance its world leadership position in hospitality and tourism education, with a view to making greater contribution to Hong Kong, the region and the world. The result is an impressive complex of 28 storeys with three components: the SHTM home base, a teaching and research hotel, and the PolyU staff quarters.
"With Asia emerging as the global centre of excellence in hospitality and tourism business, we see the need to advance both education and research in hotel and tourism management," Professor Kaye Chon remarked. "As a purpose-driven School, we are constantly pushing into new areas. We are confident that the SHTM's new education model will help to improve hospitality and tourism education everywhere," he said.
About PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM)
SHTM is one of the world's leading providers of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 in the world among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in 2009. With more than 60 academic staff drawing from 18 countries, the SHTM offers programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. It is designated by the United Nations World Tourism Organization as one of its global Education and Training Centres.
SHTM website: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm
About Samsung Electronics
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies with 2009 consolidated sales of US$116.8 billion. Employing approximately 174,000 people in 193 offices across 66 countries, the company consists of eight independently operated business units: Visual Display, Mobile Communications, Telecommunication Systems, Digital Appliances, IT Solutions, Digital Imaging, Semiconductor and LCD. Recognised as one of the fastest growing global brands, Samsung Electronics is a leading producer of digital TVs, memory chips, mobile phones and TFT-LCDs.
For more information, please visit www.samsung.com
