
[date]2011.03.29[/date]
[title]PolyU extends collaboration with Citizen Football Club[/title]
The Faculty of Health and Social Sciences (FHSS) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has extended its collaboration with Citizen Football Club, a first division soccer league in Hong Kong, by providing comprehensive sport-specific assessment and conditioning programmes to the soccer players in preparation for the new season in 2011/12 and the Asian Football Confederation Cup.
According to the collaboration agreement, FHSS's School of Optometry will provide sports vision assessment for the soccer players while RS physiotherapy team will conduct pre-season assessment and evaluation of cardio-respiratory function, range of motion, muscle strength and flexibility. On-field and outpatient physiotherapy services will also be provided for players to receive immediate injury assessment and treatments.
Speaking at the occasion, Professor George Woo, Dean of FHSS, was delighted to have extended the present collaboration. He said, "We are grateful for Citizen Football Club's trust in us. In the coming season, a sports conditioning programme will be introduced in which each soccer player will be closely monitored on their body condition and immediate injury management and rehabilitation will be implemented in order to help them to reach their optimal performance."
To show their support to the extended collaboration, Mr Pui Kwan-kay, Chairman of Citizen Football Club, led the whole soccer team to the occasion. Mr Pui said, "It is our great honour to have PolyU to be our close partner again. With the sports-specific conditioning programme provided by PolyU specialists, we look forward to achieving even more encouraging results in the upcoming games."
Ms Sharon Wan, Sports Rehab Unit (Clinic Manager), The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre, explained, "By integrating research and clinical intervention, the pre-season physical screening assessment and the injury pattern will form a database on physical profile of soccer players. Possible predisposing factors of certain common soccer injuries can be studied through data analysis. Such information forms the basis for evidence-based physical conditioning, rehabilitation and further injury prevention for the players. It is found that muscle strain and ligament sprain of lower limbs were the most common injuries sustained by the soccer players."
With the support of The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre, the collaboration not only provides professional service for Citizen Football Club players, but also acts as a platform for study and research. Physiotherapy students will be given an opportunity to gain valuable on-field training at the games. It is hoped that the collaboration will further promote a healthy lifestyle and sports health among elite athletes and the general public.
