
[date]2010.12.31[/date]
[title]PolyU MBA Wins Capital CEO Supreme Brand Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) was presented with the Supreme Brand Award 2010 in recognition of its effective brand development and management regarding the MBA programme. The Supreme Brand Awards presentation ceremony was held yesterday  (30 December) by South China Media and the Capital CEO magazine. Winners of the awards were decided by public polling, representatives from the public sector, academia and business as well as the magazine's editorial team.
PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) and Graduate School of Business Director Professor Judy Tsui is especially grateful that PolyU's business and executive education has been gaining greater and wider recognition. "Our research has earned us a high standing in the academic world. Winning the Supreme Brand Award confirms that the business community has high regard for our quality education." She commented.
PolyU MBA, launched in Hong Kong in 1990 and in Mainland in 2002, was the first of its kind in Hong Kong and Mainland to gain AMBA accreditation. The accreditation was awarded by the UK-based Association of MBAs in 2005. With One China MBA implemented in the 2010/2011 academic year, PolyU MBA students in Hong Kong and Mainland can choose to take subjects in any one of the two locations. The restructured programme has a smaller intake of students and demands an increased number of credits. It enhances interaction among students from different places and includes new subjects such as Global Economic Environment, Leadership in the Asian Context, Business Research Methods and Investigative Report.
PolyU Faculty of Business is among a small group of triple accredited business schools in the world. It has achieved AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business), EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) and AMBA accreditations.
Capital CEO Supreme Brands Award 2010 comprises 18 categories. PolyU MBA is the award winner of the advanced education category. Other categories include medical services, financial investment, property development, life insurance and logistics.
