
[date]2010.12.09[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Asian Competition Forum Annual Conference: Capacity Building in New Asian Competition Regimes[/title]
The School of Accounting and Finance of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosted the 6th Asian Competition Forum Annual Conference on 6 and 7 December 2010. Some 30 world renowned experts have shared with the participants their insights on global competition practices that will help capacity building in Hong Kong and China.
Mr Gregory So, Under Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development, officiated at the Forum on 6 December. Mr So said, "The Competition Bill is a milestone in the implementation of the Government's competition policy. It is the result of extensive consultation over the years and has been crafted to reflect the aspiration of the society for a cross-sector competition law which caters for the specific needs of Hong Kong."
Professor Mark Williams, Associate Head of the School of Accounting and Finance of PolyU, said, "The Asian Competition Forum has become a premier event in relation to competition law and policy in the Asia-Pacific region. The Conference comes at a crucial time for the development of this subject in both China and Hong Kong. China is already implementing its new Anti-Monopoly Law and Hong Kong is in the process of legislating its own Competition Ordinance." He was delighted that PolyU is making this important contribution to knowledge as well as to the practical application of competition principles to real-life problems.
Sharing at the two-day Conference were experts from government organisations, professional service firms, professional associations and academia. Among them were Anti-monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce, People's Republic of China, The Competition Authority of Ireland, Federal Trade Commission of USA, Japan Fair Trade Commission, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Gilbert+Tobin Lawyers, King and Wood PRC Lawyers, Shanghai Bar Association, The Australia and New Zealand School of Government, Chicago-Kent College of Law, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Kansai University School of Law, National University of Singapore, University of Canterbury of New Zealand, and The University of New South Wales.
The Asian Competition Forum (ACF) was founded in 2005 by a group of academics in Law and Economics and experts in Competition Law in Asia-Pacific region. The non-profit making organisation aims at promoting economic competition through research and study of Law and Economics by means of teaching and training courses, conferences and seminars, publications and production of teaching materials.
