
[date]2011.04.20[/date]
[title]PolyU presents Bio Home products at Hong Kong Houseware Fair[/title]
A wide range of Bio Home products designed by engineering students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) with support from the industry are being showcased at the Hong Kong Houseware Fair, which is held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from now until 23 April 2011.
These innovative products which find applications in different household settings are all designed by PolyU students under the Bio Home project, a unique industry-university project of the University and Bunhoi Group. The booth was opened today (20 April) by Mr Harry Wong, Chairman of Bunhoi Group; Mr Vincent Wong, Deputy Chairman of Bunhoi Group; Professor Philip C. H. Chan, PolyU Deputy President and Provost; and Ms Peggie Liu, Senior Exhibitor Manager, Hong Kong Trade Development Council.
According to Professor Alan Lau, Project Coordinator of the University's Department of Mechanical Engineering, the Bio Home project aims to nurture the creative thinking ability of students in product design and development. This year, PolyU students have unleashed their creativity by developing these eco-friendly household products which include Fasthaw 360, Bio-puzzle, Dedirt, De-crease, Dynaroll, WaWaYogurt Maker, Beat Kit, e-Sweep, comBottle, Wise Green-er, Eco-spring and VegLife.
"This innovative project is a shining example of our 'Outcome-based' Education programme," said Professor Lau. Apart from showcasing what the students have learned on product design and development, the Hong Kong Houseware Fair also provides an arena for students to hone their skills in marketing products to potential buyers from all around the world.
It is hoped that the Bio Home project will set a model to encourage further collaboration between the industry and PolyU in grooming practical dreamers of tomorrow to better serve the needs of the market and the society. "This is a win-win situation and we hope that our graduates can help the development of the industry in the long run," Professor Lau added.
The three-year Bio Home project was launched in 2008 with a funding support of $1 million from Bunhoi Group. PolyU's Faculty of Engineering has also funded HK$300,000 with a view to enabling more students to participate in this meaningful project. Under this project, a series of programmes are organized for the participating students to learn and practise their skills in designing, producing and marketing environmental-friendly household products. They included technical seminars on product design, industrial and academic visits to factories and companies in Australia and on the Chinese Mainland, and summer placement scheme.
For more information about these Bio Home products, please visit the Booth (1D-D15) in Hall of Elegancy of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
