
[date]2010.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU welcomes recommendations of UGC Report on Higher Education Review[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) welcomed the University Grants Committee (UGC) Report on "Aspirations for the Higher Education System in Hong Kong" and especially its recommendations to promote further internationalisation of local universities and to support the rapid development of China.
In response to the Report's Recommendation 9 on "internationalisation strategies as a matter of urgency", PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong was pleased to note that the University already has an internationalisation strategy in place. He welcomed further collaborations between the Government, universities and UGC in fostering internationalisation. He also pointed out that PolyU has recently established an International Advisory Board with the support of 19 prominent leaders to further accelerate its commitment in internationalisation.
PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) Professor Judy Tsui added that promoting internationalisation meant more than the recruitment of international students and maintaining the international mix of faculty members. The University must also proactively expand its network, enhance students' global outlook through the curriculum and outside of classroom learning, as well as make available opportunities for staff and students to engage in high level international scholarly and exchange activities, thereby creating a genuine international learning environment on campus. One major initiative that PolyU has undertaken is to organise the annual Global Student Challenge, inviting students who went through stringent selection from all over the world to PolyU to compete in innovation, leadership, entrepreneurship via business proposals and to interact with PolyU students to enhance their creative and innovative spirits. 
"For instance, PolyU has been awarded Hong Kong's first Erasmus Mundus grant of nearly â‚¬1.4 million by the European Commission and our Faculty of Humanities, as an initiating university in a 9-institution consortium, will assume the role of coordinator for this large-scale project in the South East Asia. This will help us build fruitful partnerships with universities in Europe and the Asia Pacific Region, as well as open up the eyes and minds of our faculty staff and postgraduate students," she added.
The report also advocated more collaborations with the Chinese mainland, in particular Pearl River Delta Region. This has been identified as one of our strategic priorities in Professor Tong's inaugural address in April 2009. PolyU currently offers a total of 18 award-bearing programmes accredited by the Ministry of Education - the highest number among non-local institution. PolyU researchers also actively engage in some joint research projects with the mainland academics. Plans are underway to step up the University's presence in the Pearl River Delta Region.  
As to the recommendations related to research, Professor Tong supported the recommendations about role differentiation between UGC- funded institutions (recommendation 27) and that "Research funding and resources should be allocated increasingly on a competitive basis" (recommendation 25), but he added that the competition must be done on a fair basis.
The University also considered the "implementation of a sector-wide Credit Accumulation and Transfer System" (Recommendation 37) good for tertiary students. It will work closely with sister institutions to facilitate such arrangement.
