
[date]2010.11.12[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Conference on Knowledge Management[/title]
More than 110 knowledge management researchers and practitioners from over 30 countries spreading across European, American, African, Australian and Asian Continents are gathering at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to attend the 7th International Conference on Intellectual Capital, Knowledge Management, and Organisational Learning (ICICKM 2010) hosted by the Knowledge Management Research Centre of PolyU's Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering from 11 to 12 November 2010.
The two-day Conference was kicked off by Professor Walter W. Yuen, Vice President (Academic Development). He extended a warm welcome to the delegates and briefed them on the latest development of PolyU. Professor Leif Edvinsson, Chairman of the New Club of Paris, who is also known as the pioneer of the intellectual capital movement which started at Sweden 16 years ago, gave an opening speech on 'Rising Intellectual Capital in China - What causes the Phenomenological Economic Potential and Growth'.
Mr Stephen Selby, Director of the Intellectual Property Department of the HKSAR Government, was invited to deliver keynote speech at the Conference. He shared with the audience the success of an intellectual capital management programme launched in Hong Kong, which has attracted more than 500 SMEs to join and helped the enterprises to recognise the importance of managing their enterprise knowledge to achieve business goals. Alongside with the conferences was several PhD colloquium in which doctorate candidates present their latest findings with constructive comments from the academics.
'The ability to acquire knowledge, create new knowledge and share knowledge in the organisational context becomes the critical differentiator in today's enterprises and organisations for business innovation and sustainability,' remarked Professor W.B. Lee,ã€€Chair Professor of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering and Director of the Knowledge Management Research Centre. The next event will be held in 2011 in Bangkok.
 
