
[date]2011.02.15[/date]
[title]Top scorers of Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition to join PolyU’s High Achievers Club[/title]
Jointly organized by the Department of Applied Mathematics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and secondary schools from 18 districts in Hong Kong, the territory-wide Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition (JPSMC) 2010 has come to a fruitful close. The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held last Friday (11 February) at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus.
Officiating at the Ceremony were Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); Professor Qi Li-qun, Head of PolyU's Department of Applied Mathematics; Professor Benny Y. C. Hon, Department of Mathematics, City University of Hong Kong; Dr Allan Leung of Hong Kong Baptist University, Mr Lee Pak-leung, Chief Curriculum Development Officer, Education Bureau; and Mr T. W. Wan, Assistant General Manager of the Hong Kong Examination and Assessment Authority.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Angelina Yuen said the competition has demonstrated PolyU's commitment to nurturing young people for society and to promoting quality education through collaborations with secondary and primary schools. She hoped that the territory-wide competition would encourage students to apply what they have learnt in the classroom into real life situations. To further promote senior secondary students' interests in Mathematics and Science, PolyU will launch the Secondary School Mathematics and Science Competition in April 2011.
Professor Yuen also announced the inauguration of PolyU's High Achievers Club (HAC) at the Ceremony. The winning team of each district together with nine other teams with the highest scores in JPSMC 2010 would be invited to join HAC. The winners are also entitled to join the gifted programmes offered by PolyU during the Easter Holidays and summer vacation.
This year, the Overall Champion of JPSMC went to St. Francis of Assisi's English Primary School from Sham Shui Po district and First Runner up to Ying Wa Primary School. La Salle Primary School was the Second Runner Up.
JPSMC is the largest mathematics competition of its kind in Hong Kong, with more than 3,800 students from some 400 primary schools joining it every year. Starting from next year, primary schools in Shenzhen and Guangzhou will be invited to participate in JPSMC.
