
[date]2011.01.24[/date]
[title]PolyU extends collaboration with HKSH for joint programme in Master of Nursing[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University has further extended its collaboration with the Hong Kong Sanatorium &amp; Hospital (HKSH) in providing the highly popular Master of Nursing Programme for degree holders of other disciplines to join the profession. HKSH will also introduce new scholarship and bursary for students.
The MoU for extending this collaboration was signed by Dr Walton Li, Medical Superintendent of HKSH, and Prof. Walter Yuen, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU; and witnessed by Ms Manbo Man, Director of Nursing Services of HKSH and Prof. George Woo, Dean of Faculty of Health and Social Sciences of PolyU.
Sharing a common vision in providing high standard education, HKSH and PolyU first started its cooperation in 2008. The Master of Nursing Programme, which was then the first of its kind in Hong Kong, has since then provided valuable opportunity for degree holders of other disciplines to enter the nursing profession. During the three-year study, students are required to attend the theoretical courses taught by experienced educators at PolyU, as well as the practicum at HKSH.
According to Ms Manbo Man, Director of Nursing Services, "the programme has successfully attracted to campus numerous outstanding students, who are mature, experienced and determined. The first group of students is graduating in June 2011; we hope that these graduates will become valuable workforce for the development of the healthcare industry in Hong Kong."
In support of the Master of Nursing programme, HKSH will continue to provide studentships and scholarships totalling over HK$10 million for up to 120 students in three intakes. All students with GPA 2.5 or above are granted a scholarship of HK$30,000 every year and top 5 students (with GPA 3.5 or above) will be awarded an Outstanding Scholarship ranging from HK$45,000 to HK$85,000.
Starting from the intake in 2011, HKSH will introduce the "Li Hok Pak Bursary" to help alleviate the financial burden of brilliant students (with GPA 3.0 or above), who will receive an extra allowance of HK$82,000 per year to cover the tuition.
"HKSH has a very successful partnership with PolyU in nursing education. We will continue to enhance our relationships with local and global academic institutions to nurture more outstanding nursing professionals for the long term development of Hong Kong as the regional medical hub.," Dr Walton Li concluded.
About Hong Kong Sanatorium &amp; Hospital
Hong Kong Sanatorium &amp; Hospital (HKSH) is one of the leading private hospitals in Hong Kong. HKSH is committed to ensuring quality in service and excellence in care. It also strives to advance in medical education and research, with an overriding concern for the public good.
About School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Established in 1977, the School of Nursing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University supports the mission of the University to be the "preferred university" by producing preferred graduates with attributes of reflective practitioner and future nurse leader, by performing research and consultancy leading to health enhancement and healthcare innovations, as well as by providing integrative health services and education programmes for improving the health and health literacy of the community. 
The School pioneered Hong Kong's tertiary education programmes in nursing. Its vision is to become the leading school of its kind, offering preferred programmes and producing high calibre graduates in nursing.  It offered the first full-time Bachelor of Science (Honours) programme in Nursing in 1990 and collaborated with HKSH in offering the first pre-registration Master of Nursing programme in Hong Kong in 2008. The School now offers nursing programmes at Higher Diploma, Bachelor's and Master's degree levels, and nursing specialisms of the doctoral degree programme hosted by the Faculty of Health &amp; Social Sciences, with a total student population of about 2,200. It is a diverse community of scholars and clinicians with a common goal: to pursue academic excellence of practical value in nursing and healthcare services.  Currently it has a total of 93 full-time faculty members.  It is renowned for its research in Adult Nursing, Family and Community Health, Professional Development and Practice, and Integrative Digital Health.  The School is keen to apply professional expertise in community services and it has been instrumental in innovating new models of service delivery to validate knowledge through practice. The School's designation as a WHO Collaborating Centre for Community Health Services (WHO CC) since 2007 is a leap forward to extend its work and contribute to the Western Pacific Region (WPR).  Through implementing the WHO's mandate, the School strives to play a proactive role in strengthening evidence-based community health services and improving the health outcomes of local, regional and global populations.
