
[date]2010.11.13[/date]
[title]Community Weather Information Network launches new online educational resources platform[/title]
The Director of the Hong Kong Observatory, Dr Lee Boon-ying, and the Associate Head of the Department of Applied Physics of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Professor Wong Kin-hung, officiated at the third anniversary ceremony of the Community Weather Information Network (Co-WIN) today (November 13). At the same time, an online Educational Resources platform of Co-WIN was also officially launched.   The number of Co-WIN members has nearly tripled since it was established in August 2007, from 35 to over 90 at present. Co-WIN members now span a wide spectrum of the community, ranging from primary and secondary schools, and an elderly centre in the past, to new members including the Scout Association of Hong Kong and WWF-Hong Kong this year, indicating that Co-WIN has been well received by the community.
The new educational resources webpage (http://weather2.ap.polyu.edu.hk/edu.php) serves as a platform for exchange of knowledge and experience. Contents of the webpage include basic knowledge on the theme Weather and the Environment prepared by the Observatory, sample teaching plans and activities, sample presentations by students as well as training manuals and lecture notes on weather related topics prepared by staffs of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and teachers.   Dr Lee said that the community weather information network in Hong Kong is at the forefront of its kind anywhere in the world. The international meteorological community has responded to the implementation of the Co-WIN project favourably, and in the coming year, the Hong Kong Observatory will assist a couple of developing countries in setting up their own community weather stations.   Professor Wong pointed out that under the New Senior Secondary School Curriculum, Investigative Studies, Other Learning Experience and School-based Assessment were included in many subjects. During its early development stage, Co-WIN collaborated with teachers and students in developing various teaching materials and investigative activities that are applicable for use under the new curriculum. Additionally, university departments have requested to include subjects related to climate change, environmental protection and renewable energy in the General Education Curriculum under the new 4-year undergraduate curriculum. The new Co-WIN educational resources platform provides relevant knowledge to help support the undergraduates.   The newly elected chairman of the executive committee of Co-WIN, Mr Lo Cheuk-wai, said the executive committee fully supported the development of the Co-WIN Educational Resources platform and they will continue to provide advice on the future development of Co-WIN.   Co-WIN is a collaborative effort by the Hong Kong Observatory, the Department of Applied Physics of Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Hong Kong Joint-school Meteorological Association. The public can access the network's website via http://weather.ap.polyu.edu.hk/index.php. The website has also been linked to the Observatory homepage www.weather.gov.hk/contente.htm.  
     
  
