
[date]2010.12.10[/date]
[title]PolyU Business students enter International Business Case Competition Finals[/title]
Two teams of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Faculty of Business students will be in Canada early next month with 46 teams from 18 universities around the world for the finals of the Inter-Collegiate Business Competition (ICBC). PolyU is the only university from Hong Kong to enter the finals. Ms Luo Min and Ms Zhang Xinke, from the School of Accounting and Finance, will take part in the accounting event of the competition. Ms Fu Wing Lam and Ms Tsui Ka Man, from the Department of Management and Marketing, will participate in the human resources event. The accounting event received 27 entries in the preliminary round and the human resources event 20 entries. The PolyU teams are among the six finalists in each event.
During the finals in Kingston, Ontario, the two PolyU teams will compete with undergraduates from around the world. They will be provided with a business case for working out a solution within five-and-a-half hours. They will then make a presentation and respond to questions and queries raised by the panel judges. During the three days from 6 to 8 January 2011, they will also interact with business executives and join social functions for international students.
PolyU Faculty of Business Acting Dean &amp; Associate Dean (Programmes, Teaching &amp; Learning) Professor Howard Davies says that application of theory and international exposure are integral parts of their education. "Our Faculty students are academic high achievers, from high school to university, but putting what you have learnt into practice is another matter. Business competition, with judges of different specializations, is a real test of competence. In terms of the competition's nature, the more international, the better. Our students learn more about their overseas counterparts, and learn from them. They make friends and build links."
ICBC is a case competition in Canada open to undergraduates from all parts of the world. It was launched in the year 1978 and comprises currently eight events in accounting, business policy, ethics, finance, human resources, marketing, management of information systems and debating. This year, the organizer Queen's University School of Business received 170 submissions of business case analysis from 41 schools across Canada and other countries and regions for the preliminary round of the competition. Six teams of finalists in each event were selected and invited to compete in the final round of the competition in January.
