
[date]2011.03.28[/date]
[title]PolyU Graduate School of Business leaps up World Research Rankings[/title]
The Graduate School of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is ranked 61st in the world, 3rd in Asia and 2nd in Hong Kong according to the latest University of Texas at Dallas (UTD) Top 100 World Rankings of Business Schools 2006-2010. It has climbed nine places from its 70th position in the previous 2005-2009 rankings. The league table is compiled on the basis of research contributions to 24 leading business journals during the period.
Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) and Director of the Graduate School of Business, said 'We are very pleased with the advancement in the world rankings. It is a testament to our efforts and commitment to fostering and undertaking quality and impactful research apart from providing excellent education. We look forward to making greater strides in becoming a world-leading business school in the near future.'
The School integrates functional areas of business disciplines and develops scholars who carry out cutting-edge research. The findings are brought into the classroom and to industry. The School's flagship programme, DBA (Doctor of Business Administration) in Hong Kong/DMgt (Doctor of Management) on the Chinese mainland, is offered in collaboration with the IMD (International Institute for Management Development) in Switzerland, the Sauder School of Business of UBC (the University of British Columbia) and the Simon Graduate School of Business of the University of Rochester in the US.
Professor Howard Davies, Faculty of Business Acting Dean and Associate Dean (Programmes, Teaching &amp; Learning), commented that 'it speaks of our success in achieving the vision of becoming a leading business school in the region'. He expressed his appreciation to Faculty academics for publishing in recognized journals and supporting their colleagues in research and publication.
The Faculty also has outstanding research achievement in other league tables. Its finance and economics research has been ranked 42nd according to a study published in the Journal of Financial Economics in September 2009. This ranking is based on the average research rankings provided by 11 previous studies over the period 1970-2001. PolyU is the only university in Asia and Australia to make the cut in the ranking of the top 50 universities in the world.
The School offers 18 taught postgraduate programmes in Hong Kong and six on the Chinese mainland in addition to research degree programmes. Its DBA/Doctor of Management (DMgt), Master of Business Administration and Executive Master of Business Administration programmes are accredited by the UK-based Association of MBAs (AMBA). The Faculty of Business is among a small group of triple-accredited business schools in the world with AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business), EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) and AMBA accreditations.
For UTD rankings, please visit http://somweb.utdallas.edu/top100Ranking/searchRanking.php?t=w.
For information on PolyU Graduate School of Business, please visit www.polyu.edu.hk/gsb.
 
