
[date]2011.01.25[/date]
[title]PolyU Charity Dinner sets $6 million fund-raising record[/title]
More than 400 guests have rendered support to the "PolyU Charity Dinner 2011" held last Friday (21 January) at The Mira Hong Kong. The dinner has successfully raised over $6 million for the long-term development of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which is also a record high for similar fund-raising activities.
Themed "Where Innovation Meets Application", the "PolyU Charity Dinner 2011" was officially opened by The Honorable Michael Suen Ming-yeung, Secretary for Education, Government of The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Miss Cally Kwong, Chairlady of the Organizing Committee of "PolyU Charity Dinner 2011"; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President; and Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Professor Tong said this meaningful event was one of the major fund-raising activities of PolyU in support of its long-term development and all-round development of students. He expressed his heartfelt gratitude to all donors, Miss Cally Kwong, members of the Organizing Committee, as well as masters of ceremonies Miss Michelle Lo, Mr Vinci Wong and Mr Derek Li, artists and singers Mr Louis Yuen, Mr Deep Ng, Mr Bennett Pang and his Taka Band for their ardent support to the dinner and PolyU.
An overwhelming response was received during the live auction in which over $2 million was raised for the bidding of eight auction items donated by community leaders, with nearly half of them being PolyU alumni. Among the auction items, "Jade Decoration in 12 Chinese Zodiac", "Being Dauntless" by Master Hsing Yun and the "South Sea Pearl Ring" designed by Miss Cally Kwong, were donated by Miss Kwong; "Blessed" was donated by University Fellow Mr Louis Mak, President of the Lingdong Painting Society and a charity painter; "Satin Buddha Paper Cut Modern Cheongsam Dress" designed and donated by world-renowned fashion designer and outstanding PolyU alumni Ms Vivienne Tam; "Emotions" specially created for the PolyU Charity Dinner by Mr Raman Hui, father of DreamWorks animation "Shrek" and outstanding PolyU alumni; "Fiyta Shenzhou 7 Collectable Edition" donated by Dr Wong Kam-shing, Managing Director of Kowloon Watch; and "God of Fortune" donated by Ms May Leung.
The dinner concluded with the finale performance by Professor Tong, Miss Cally Kwong, Mr Bennett Pang and his Taka Band, earning loud applause from the audience.
The net proceeds raised from the dinner will go to PolyU Development Fund and Student Development Fund.
