
[date]2011.01.31[/date]
[title]"DesignPlus Fashion Competition 2011" comes to fruitful close[/title]
Organized by the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre under the aegis of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing, the "DesignPlus Fashion Competition 2011" has come to a fruitful close. A total of 22 participating teams showed their specially designed care apparel for the elderly or the disabled at the award presentation ceremony and mini-fashion show held last Saturday (29 January) at Chiang Chen Studio Theatre on the university campus.
According to the organizer, the aim of the competition is to equip students of our community with the knowledge to show concern for the clothing needs of the elderly and disabled. In the course of this competition, PolyU students have teamed up with local students from other educational institutes / secondary schools to show their talents in fashion design and their concern to the community as well.
This year, over 200 students took part in the competition. They came from more than 20 educational institutes / secondary schools, including PolyU and its affiliated Hong Kong Community College, Hong Kong Design Institute, Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education (Sha Tin), School of Continuing and Professional Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Australian International School Hong Kong (Secondary), CCC Rotary Secondary School, Diocesan Girls' School, HKICC Lee Shau Kee School of Creativity, Holy Family Canossian College, Lai King Catholic Secondary School, Lam Tai Fai College, Maryknoll Convent School (Secondary Section), Nam Wah Catholic Secondary School, Shau Kei Wan East Government School, South Island School, St. Paul's Convent School, St. Rose of Lima's College, St. Stephen's Girls' College, STFA Lee Shau Kee College, Tung Chung Catholic School.
The ceremony was officiating at by Mr Lam Woon-Kwong, Chairperson of Equal Opportunities Commission; Professor Philip C. H. Chan, Deputy President and Provost of PolyU; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre. Some of the winning entries might be used for making care apparels for the elderly and disabled.
 
