
[date]2010.12.16[/date]
[title]PolyU raises over $2M on the green[/title]
More than 60 golf teams comprising prominent business and community leaders have rendered support to "PolyU China South City Invitation Golf Tournament" held on 14 December in Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan. The fun-filled event has raised over $2 million for the long-term development of the University.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong thanked all parties involved for making the event possible. He said, "The tournament, now in its eighth year, has brought the University's friends and alumni together to go beyond just having a friendly match by supporting PolyU's vision in nurturing professionals for the community and the country. Over the years, we are most privileged to enjoy the tremendous support from various sectors of the society in realizing our vision."
After a round of golf, the team awards "Trade Association Cup" and "Company Cup" went to The Chinese Manufacturers Association of Hong Kong and Polaris Jewellery Manufacturer Limited respectively while the individual awards "Alumni Cup" and "Ladies Cup" went to Mr Anthony Leung Kit-lun and Ms Chung Wai-lan respectively.
This year, China South City was the title sponsor of the event. The tournament was organized by a Committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Lee Yuen-fat, Chairman of Ka Shui International Holdings Limited. Other members of the Organizing Committee included Convener Dr Dennis Ng, Managing Director of Polaris Jewellery Manufacturing Limited; four Honorary Chairmen Mr Patrick Luk, Managing Director of Legend Jewelry; Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; and Mr William Chan, Managing Director of Lapton Electric &amp; Machinery Limited.
Apart from raising funds for the University, the event helps to promote friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters. The net proceeds will be contributed towards the development of the new academic structure to be implemented in 2012, as well as the University's long-term development and students' all-round development.
