
[date]2011.08.19[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes fun-filled summer activities for High Achievers Club[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has staged a series of fun-filled activities including scientific experiments and gifted science and mathematics programmes for the inaugural High Achievers Club (HAC) members this summer. A closing ceremony was held today (19 August) on the university campus with Professor Walter Yuen, Vice President (Academic Development), as the officiating guest.
At the ceremony, HAC member Andy Loo, who has won a gold medal at the 42nd International Physics Olympiad, shared his learning experience with the participants. He encouraged them to take part in various competitions to expand their subject knowledge, broaden their visions, enhance critical thinking, problem-solving skills and Adversity Quotient, as well as develop a strong sense of social responsibility.
Fifty HAC members from Primary Five to Secondary Two have joined a four-day gifted mathematics programme from 16 to 19 August to learn such courses as mathematic theory and Pigeonhole Principle. Their mathematical sense and ability were as good as or even better than the average senior secondary school students.
Ten Primary Six and Secondary One students took on the challenge to do the mathematics paper of 2011 Secondary School Mathematics and Science Competition initiated by PolyU. The paper contained 30 Multiple Choice and Short Answer questions and the highest score in the competition was 25/30. The average result of the ten students was 14.8/30, higher than the average of 11.5/30 for secondary form participants. The top scorer was a Secondary One student who answered 22 questions correctly.
Mr C. K. Wan, Special Assistant (Outreach) to Vice President (Academic Development) said the test paper covered M1 and M2 courses and was primarily designed for Secondary Five students. It was impressive to see that Primary Six and Secondary One students have done so well in the test.
In addition, HAC members have joined another gifted science programme taught by Dr Gilbert Chan, Assistant Professor of the Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology. They have learnt from Dr Chan on how to apply ozone technology to urban greening and vertical farming.
Members have also conducted research into oxidant and antioxidant. By using common ingredients as experimental materials and through induction of oxidation stress, the level of antioxidant would be increased, making the food more nutritious and healthy. Some students used bean sprouts as the material and found that ozone water could increase its antioxidant level up to 83%, several times more than that sold in the market, and ozone gas could increase the level by 20 to 40%.
PolyU's High Achievers Club was officially established this March to provide more learning opportunities for gifted students to enrol for credit-bearing courses run by PolyU. More than 100 secondary and primary students who are mostly winners and top-scorers of the territory-wide Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition and Australian Mathematics Competition have joined the inaugural HAC.
