
[date]2011.09.12[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Education Info Days for HKDSE and HKALE applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Days on two consecutive days this Saturday and Sunday (17 and 18 September) for two batches of applicants. The first day is specially arranged for students who will be sitting for the first Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Examination in 2012; and the second day will be for the last batch of applicants taking the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE).
Under the new four-year undergraduate degree curriculum, PolyU will adopt a flexible admission system which allows students to be admitted to its Broad Disciplines and gives them the flexibility to decide on a specific programme/scheme after the first year of study. HKDSE applicants may choose from PolyU's eight new Broad Disciplines Programmes on top of other choices. These Broad Disciplines are grouped by the category of Applied Sciences, Business, Computing, Construction and Environment, Engineering, Hotel and Tourism Management, Language, Culture and Communication, and Social Sciences.
To help HKDSE students familiarize with the entrance requirements and selection criteria of the new arrangement, admission talks and seminars introducing the features of various Broad Disciplines will be organized on 17 September (Saturday). The University will also arrange a Forum for Careers Teachers on Saturday morning and two Admission Talks to provide first-hand information on the characteristics of its four-year curriculum as well as the admission selection criteria of its full-time undergraduate degree and sub-degree programmes.
The second day event (18 September) will cater for the last batch of applicants with HKALE qualifications. PolyU's campus and facilities, as well as the Student Halls of Residence, will be open to secondary school students, principals, teachers, parents and members of the public during the Education Info Days.
During the two-day event, academic staff and student ambassadors of PolyU will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements and other important reminders for all JUPAS applicants. The student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students.
To give prospective applicants in-depth information on PolyU's study programmes, over 180 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by its various academic departments during the two-day event. Topics of the seminars include: "The Exciting Fashion &amp; Textile Industry", "How Faculty of Business Qualifies U for the Real World?", "The New Geomatics: Satellites, Google and Wi-Fi Shopping", "The Strongest Combination: Engineering and Business Administration", "Education for the 21st Century Social Workers", "Nurturing Professional English Communicators", "Get You Started toward an Amazing Career in Multimedia Design" and "Ride the Asian Wave to Become a Hotel and Tourism Industry Professional".
Other highlights of the two-day event include visit to the Industrial Centre, where advanced equipment will be introduced, the newly renovated Pao Yue-kong Library, and the Optometry Clinic; and performances by PolyU's outstanding sports teams, Student Union's Region, etc. Furthermore, exhibitions, demonstrations and other attractions will be staged to make the Info Days lively and vibrant.
For more details about the PolyU Education Info Days, please visit the official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday.
