
[date]2011.11.02[/date]
[title]Conference on Transforming Inter-generational Poverty[/title]
The Conference on "Transforming Inter-generational Poverty" jointly-organized by the Hong Kong Quality Mentorship Network, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Child Development Matching Fund, co-presented with the Child Development Fund and sponsored by the Sun Hung Kai Properties, was successfully held today (2 November). More than a hundred and fifty delegates from different sectors attended this conference. Officiating at the conference were Mr. Stephen Lam, GBS, JP, Chief Secretary for Administration; Dr. Thomas Kwok, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Sun Hung Kai Properties  and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
Another senior government official Mr Matthew Cheung, GBS, JP , Secretary for Labour and Welfare was also one of the keynote speakers for the occasion. The success of the conference marks the increasing importance attached by the community to the "Quality Mentorship" movement which aims at helping disadvantage youngsters to have a positive outlook for life. It has become an important milestone for the collaboration of different sectors against inter-generational poverty.
"There are more than a million people living in underprivileged conditions in Hong Kong. What they lack are not only financial resources but also other even more important resources like social and career supportive networks for these families. Children and young people need their mentors in life to act as companion and model and give them guidance in a systematic way, and to help them set goal for their career plans . That ensures the education and training they received suit their needs, so that their talents may be shaped to contribute towards our society." said Dr. Philemon Choi, Chairman of the conference.
The organizer was honoured to have the presence of Professor Wang Yijun, Vice President of the China Youth University For Political Sciences. The institution collaborates with the PolyU to champion the 'Beijing Intensive Community Mentoring Scheme' and Professor Wang alsodelivered a keynote address on  'Responsibilities, policies and practices of university against urban poverty'. Five participating universities in this programme also sent forth representatives to share their experience with the delegates, forming a platform for experience exchange on mentorship programs between Hong Kong and the Mainland.
More importantly, the "Building Resources and Transforming Inter-generational Poverty" policy proposal is issued in the conference. The proposal called upon the government to take the lead and further inject further financial resources into the 'Child Development Fund', with an aim to help 50,000 eligible children and teenagers. Besides current enrollment places, universities would open a number of places with full scholarship to certain industrious and outstanding students, and provide them with more educational support. The proposal is based on current community-based mentorship program approach to develop a "multimodal quality mentorship program" model, which includes corporate-based, school-based, church-based, other-religion-based etc. (Details in conference booklet.)
"I believe investment in education and manpower training to raise the quality and competitiveness of our workforce is the best way to deal with inter-generational poverty. PolyU will continue to work closely together with other sectors and show its care for the  disadvantaged groups," said Professor Timothy Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
The government allocated HKD $300 million to set up the "Child Development Fund". The Fund is expected to help children and adolescent from disadvantaged families at age of 10 to 16 to build up financial (cash) and non-financial (skills and interpersonal network) through "Targeted Savings", "Mentorship Programme' and "Personal Development Plans".
A group of civic-minded social leaders set up the "Child Development Matching Fund' and the Hong Kong Quality Mentorship Network (QMN) in 2009 and 2010 respectively in response to the Fund. The former calls on corporate and charitable sectors to donate generously. It is a matching fund for those organizations operating and participating under the program. The latter groups a number of youth-work specialists from  psychology, medical and health, education, and the corporate sector based on the research programs of Dr. Charles C. Chan, Associate Professor, Department of Applied Social Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University over the last decade. The QMN aims to collaborate with the universities to launch the 'Transforming into a quality  mentor' program to train and support those interested in becoming a youth mentor. Its long-term goal is to build a reserve group of mentors so that mentoring experience and skill could be passed on, encouraging more enthusiasts to take part in mentoring and promote a culture of mentorship in Chinese societies.
 
