
[date]2011.11.02[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Admission Talks for HKDSE students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold a series of admission talks in various districts during the month to provide first-hand information on the admission selection mechanism to students who will be sitting for the first Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Examination in 2012. The schedule is as follows:
Date
Time
Venue
11 NovemberFriday
5:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m.
Jockey Club AuditoriumThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon
12 NovemberSaturday
3:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
SMKMCF MA Ko Pan Memorial College17 Shek Pai Tau Road, Tuen Mun, N.T.
19 November Saturday
11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
Tseung Kwan O Government Secondary School2 King Yin Lane, Tseung Kwan O, N.T.
25 NovemberFriday
4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Carmel Holy Word Secondary School10 Tai Wo Road, Tai Po, N.T.
26 NovemberSaturday
11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
King's College63A Bonham Road, Hong Kong
As places are limited and will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis, interested students are encouraged to enrol via PolyU's online registration system at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/as/admissiontalk/student.html
In addition, the University will arrange a Talk for Secondary School Teachers on 11 November (Friday) from 2:30 - 4:00 p.m. at PolyU's Jockey Club Auditorium to provide more information on the characteristics of its four-year curriculum as well as the admission selection criteria of its full-time undergraduate degree and sub-degree programmes. Interested teachers are welcome to reserve their seats via PolyU's online registration system at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/as/admissiontalk/teacher.html
Under the new four-year undergraduate degree curriculum, PolyU will adopt a flexible admission system which allows students to be admitted to its Broad Disciplines and gives them the flexibility to decide on a specific major after the first year of study. HKDSE applicants may choose from PolyU's eight new Broad Disciplines Programmes on top of other choices. These Broad Disciplines are grouped by the category of Applied Sciences, Business, Computing, Construction and Environment, Engineering, Hotel and Tourism Management, Language, Culture and Communication, and Social Sciences.
