
[date]2011.11.11[/date]
[title]PolyU co-hosts Joint International Symposium on Deformation Monitoring[/title]
About 200 leading experts, scholars, researchers and industry practitioners from 27 countries and regions gathered at Harbour Grand Kwoloon Hotel, Hong Kong from 2 - 4 November to participate in the Joint International Symposium on Deformation Monitoring 2011.
The symposium was jointly organized by the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), International Federation of Surveyors (FIG) Working Group 6.1: Deformation Measurement, International Association of Geodesy (IAG) Sub-Commission 4.2: Applications of Geodesy in Engineering, IAG Sub-Commission 4.4: Applications of Satellite and Airborne Imaging Systems, and Engineering Surveying Sub-Society, Chinese Society for Geodesy, Photogrammetry and Cartography.
The opening ceremony of the three-day symposium was officiated at by Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education), Mr Wong Chung-hang, Deputy Director of Lands Department of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government, Professor Gethin Roberts, representative of FIG, and Professor Guenther Retscher, representative of IAG. 
Six prominent international and local experts were invited to deliver keynote speeches at the symposium, including Professor R.F. Hanssen of Delft University of Technology, the Netherland; Dr M. Shimada of Earth Observation Research Center, Japan; Professor C.K. Shum of Ohio State University, US; Professor Y.Q. Chen of PolyU's Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics; Professor W. Lienhart of Graz University of Technology, Austria; and Professor Y.X. Yang of Xian Research Institute of Surveying and Mapping, China and Academician of Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Structural failures such as collapses of bridges and buildings and geohazards caused by events such as landslides, ground subsidence and earthquakes are world-wide problems that often lead to significant economic and life losses. It is therefore important to carry out systematic research to better understand and manage these problems. The symposium provided a forum for sharing latest research results, ideas and experiences in monitoring deformations of both natural phenomena and man-made structures.
The symposium gained financial support from PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Environment (FCE) and some corporations.
For more details of the symposium, please visit its official website at URL: http://dma.lsgi.polyu.edu.hk/index.html
