
[date]2011.07.02[/date]
[title]PolyU honours awardees of the "Youreable" Fashion Design 2011[/title]
The "Youreable" Fashion Design 2011 organized by the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has come to a fruitful close. An award presentation ceremony was held today (2 July) at the Student Halls of Residence to pay tribute to the elderly and disabled participants for their hard work.
Co-organized by the Hong Kong Federation of Handicapped Youth (HKFHY), Caritas Hong Kong Services for the Elderly, The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council ' College for Adults with Special Educational Needs, St James' Settlement, SAHK (formerly known as The Spastics Association of Hong Kong), Direction Association For The Handicapped and Shine Skills Centre, the event provides the elderly and the disabled with an opportunity to unleash their talents in fashion design and apparel making. It also helps foster community care and social inclusion through teaming up the participants with others in the community.
A total of six awards were presented at the ceremony officiated by Mr Li Yu, Director of Social Work Department, Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR; Mr Herman Hui Chung-shing, Chairman of Rehabilitation Advisory Committee; Mr Stephen Sui, Commissioner for Rehabilitation, Labour and Welfare Bureau; Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre. The awards were given to the Most Popular Sketch Design, Best Design Concept, Most Creative, Best Potential, Outstanding Performance and Best Design.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Yang said, "We are glad to see that our students have shown their concern for people with special need by contributing their expertise to this meaningful event. Under the technical guidance and support of our ITC students, participants are able to design and make garments for their loved ones."
Among the 200 finished products, 22 have been selected and the loved ones of the elderly and disabled participants dressed in these outfits at a catwalk show. Other activities of the ceremony include a special performance by HKFHY.
Established in 2007, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia which promotes the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the disabled and the elderly. The Centre has brought together multi-disciplinary experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals.
