
[date]2011.10.31[/date]
[title]PolyU DBA nurtures scholar-leaders[/title]
The Graduate School of Business (GSB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has produced a new generation of "scholar-leaders" who combine leadership with research to excel in the globalizing world.
Speaking at the DBA (Doctor of Business Administration) graduation reception on 27 October, PolyU Executive Vice President Mr Nicholas W. Yang stressed that PolyU DBA graduates could benefit from the best of both worlds ' research and professional development.
Vice President (International and Executive Education) and GSB Director Professor Judy Tsui congratulated the graduates as "scholar-leaders" who are not only leaders in their fields or professions, but also have acquired a scholarly framework to help them adapt to rapid changes and stand out from their peers.
Professor Howard Davies, Acting Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business, to which GSB belongs, added that the graduates' research abilities and skills would enable them to combine science with the art of leadership and management so that they could enhance their contribution to their organizations and professions.
This year's twelve DBA graduates are senior executives from diverse trades and fields including public service, education, public utilities, retailing, business consultancy, the food and beverage industry. The Best Thesis Award winner is Mr Chan Wai Cheung, IT Project Director with The University of Hong Kong.
Among the graduates is a young entrepreneur who pioneered the business brokerage industry in Hong Kong. Mr Edwin Lee, Founder and CEO of Hong Kong Business Intermediary Co. Ltd, is a winner in the 2011 Ten Outstanding Young Persons selection. Apart from promoting entrepreneurship, Lee and his company sponsor the physically challenged in seeking open employment and development. His DBA research focused on entrepreneurial motivation and decision making.
PolyU's Graduate School of Business is the first graduate business school established in Hong Kong. Its flagship programmes DBA and DMgt (Doctor of Management) are accredited by the UK-based AMBA (Association of MBAs). The programmes are offered in collaboration with the IMD (International Institute for Management Development) in Switzerland, the Sauder School of Business at the University of British Columbia in Canada, and the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester in the US.
