
[date]2011.06.08[/date]
[title]PolyU launches Study Tour on Space Technology for University Students[/title]
The territory's first ever first Study Tour on Space Technology for University Students supported by the China Astronaut Research and Training Center (CARTC) has kicked off today (8 June). This event is jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), CARTC and Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT).
A special ceremony was held on PolyU campus to mark the commencement of this exchange activity. Officiating at the event were Mr Zhang Xueli, Deputy Director General of Youth Department of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR; Professor Timothy W.Tong, PolyU President; Professor Alex Wai and Professor Angelina Yuen, both being Vice-Presidents of PolyU.
The study tour aims to help university students deepen their knowledge of national developments, especially in the field of the space technology. Participants will be given opportunity to experience the training of Chinese astronauts on site, understand the latest development of the country's space technology, and thereby cultivate their interests in space science.
Professor Timothy W. Tong said PolyU took part in several space missions over the past decades. The University is also proud to have made a contribution to national space projects. He added that the agreement between PolyU and the China Academy of Space Technology in June 2010 has paved the way for PolyU to join China's lunar exploration programme and set up a joint laboratory. The good relationship between PolyU and mainland space authorities also gave rise to this study tour.
The study tour is open to students of eight UGC-funded institutions. The six-day programme includes a site visit to CARTC and the National Astronomical Observatory. Besides, the 34 participants will be given opportunity to meet with Chinese astronauts in person.
The study tour led by PolyU Vice-President (Research Development) Professor Alex Wai will depart for Beijing on 20 June. Professor Wai also made a speech today on the topic of "PolyU and Space Technology" to the participants.
Upon their return, all participants are required to take part in the project-based learning exercise so as to deepen their knowledge of national space technology.
