
[date]2011.11.21[/date]
[title]PolyU alumna Gigi Leung supports charity auction of motorcycle[/title]
Famous singer Ms Gigi Leung Wing-kei, who is also an alumna of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) in the design discipline, has returned to her alma mater today (21 November) to support a charity auction by signing her name on a famous British-branded motorcycle which has been upgraded by PolyU postgraduate students. The upcoming charity auction was introduced at a press briefing hosted by Ir Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development); Dr Stephen O'Brien, Director of PolyU's Industrial Centre (IC), and Mr Johnnie Siu, owner of Man Wai Motorcycle Centre.
The press event came to a climax with the autograph session by Ms Gigi Leung on the newly refurbished motorcycle. The net proceeds of this charity auction will go half-half to support PolyU and the Oxfam Hong Kong's education development projects for local community
The motorcycle is donated by Man Wai Motorcycle Centre to support PolyU IC's teaching and training activities relating to the MSc in Automotive Engineering Design Programme. The motorcycle is an 865cc parallel-twin engine Triumph Bonneville Thruxton cafe racer before modification. With the concerted efforts of PolyU students and staff members of both Man Wai and IC, the motorcycle has been upgraded and customized with a new look for charity auction.
"The whole idea is about education. Both our students and staff members have learned much from the motorcycle's upgrading and customization process. We want to make the best use of our fruitful learning outcome to benefit the university and others," said Dr Stephen O'Brien, Director of PolyU IC.
PolyU Vice President (Research Development) Ir Professor Alex Wai thanked Man Wai for its support to the University's MSc programme. "PolyU is privileged to enjoy continuous support from its industrial partners and community in forging ahead with its teaching and research development activities. This benefaction has not only enriched the learning experience of our students, but also supported other worthy causes."
Ms Gigi Leung called upon interested bidders to give their generous support. "This charity event has a very special meaning to my alma mater, which will be celebrating its 75th anniversary next year. I am proud of being a graduate and I also hope that more and more people can be given the opportunity to receive better education. Together, we can create a better world for our future generations," she said.
The charity auction is scheduled to be held in January 2012 on the university campus.
