
[date]2011.11.18[/date]
[title]PolyU Partner State Key Laboratory holds International Conference for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology[/title]
More than 300 delegates from different countries and regions are gathering in Hong Kong from 16-18 November 2011to attend the 4th International Conference of Asian Society for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology (ASPEN 2011).
The three-day conference was opened on 16 November by Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Professor Hu Xiaotang, Vice-President of Tianjin University, Professor Jin Guofan, Academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, Tsinghua University, and Professor W.B. Lee, Conference General Chair and President of ASPEN.
Organised by PolyU's Partner State Key Laboratory of Ultra precision Machining Technology of and co-organised by the Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society (CMES), Japan Society for Precision Engineering (JSPE), Korean Society for Precision Engineering (KSPE) and the State Key Laboratory of Precision Measurement Technology and Instruments of Tianjin University and Tsinghua University, ASPEN is a consortium of academic societies in the Asian region to promote collaboration among scientists and researchers in Asia.
Some of the major topics discussed in the conference included Precision/ultra-precision machining, Non-traditional machining, Manufacturing systems and machine tools, Nano &amp; micro metrology and surface characterization, etc.
Distinguished speakers were invited to share their ideas and experience during the conference. Professor Paul Shore, President of The European Society of Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology, spoke on Large Scale Optics; Professor Seung-Woo Kim, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology talked about Metrology for Space Missions; and Professor Tamio Arai, Former President of JSPE gave a talk on Assembly Technology.
A special session for young scientists was arranged to encourage innovative discussion on the subject. Best paper awards were also conferred. This year, over 300 overseas delegates from more than 50 institutions and organizations joined the conference.
