
[date]2011.07.13[/date]
[title]The 5th Cross-strait Conference on Structural and Geotechnical Engineering takes place at PolyU[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and co-organized by Zhejiang University and National Taiwan University, the 5th Cross-strait Conference on Structural and Geotechnical Engineering was being held on the university campus from 13 to 15 July, drawing around 200 participants.  The three-day conference was opened today (13 July) by Ir Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development); Professor Jin-Guang Teng, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use; and Professor Y. Q. Ni, Co-chairman of the conference organizing committee. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony, Professor Wai said, "Nurturing close relationships between the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau has become more important than ever in today's globalized world. This large-scale conference therefore provides an excellent platform for structural and geotechnical engineering professionals and scholars to further academic exchanges and cooperation, as well as to review trends in academic development and engineering application."
Some of the major topics covered in the forum included:
High-rise Structures
Bridge Structures
Emerging Structural Materials and Systems
Wind-resistant Structures, Seismic Design and Control
Structural Health Monitoring, Assessment and Retrofit
Environmental and Geotechnical Issues
Seismic/Earthquake Engineering
Eight academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering have been invited to deliver keynote speeches during the conference. They include:
Prof. Shi-Lin Dong, Zhejiang University, China
Prof. Xiu-Run Ge, Institute of Rock and Soil Mechanics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China
Ir. Prof. Chack-Fan Lee, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Prof. Ke-Jian Ma, Guizhou University, China
Prof. Zu-Yan Shen, Tongji University, China
Prof. Man-Chung Tang, Chairman of the Board, T Y Lin International Group, USA
Prof. Yeong-Bin Yang, President, National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
Prof. Ying-Ren Zheng, Logistical Engineering University, China
PolyU is grateful to Kwang-Hua Fund for College of Civil Engineering, Tongji University for providing strong financial support to this conference.
For more details and programme of the conference, please visit its official website: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/fclu/SGE5/index.html
