
[date]2011.05.30[/date]
[title]PolyU and Squina "Loving Heart" further promote ocular health for Hong Kong elderly[/title]
The School of Optometry of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Squina "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team jointly launched a "Comprehensive Eye Check Project for the Elderly" in October 2010 to provide primary eye care services for 500 elderly from Po Leung Kuk Elderly Centres. The project has received overwhelming response from the general public. With the generous support of "Loving Heart Fund", PolyU and Squina "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team will extend the collaboration and an extra 2,500 elderly will be benefited from the project.
According to the collaboration agreement, PolyU's School of Optometry will provide comprehensive primary eye care services for more elderly people in need. It is important for all members of the society to have regular eye check-ups so as to avoid unnecessary deterioration of vision. This is especially crucial for elderly people as eye examinations can make early detection of any age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma and cataract possible. Furthermore, a series of ocular health education seminars will be organized to make people aware of ocular issues among the elderly and the importance of vision care.
A special ceremony to announce the extended collaboration was held on the PolyU campus today (30 May). Speaking at the occasion, Dr Leong Che-hung, Chairman of Elderly Commission, was delighted to see that various sectors of the community have contributed significantly to the project. He said, "The project combines the efforts of the social welfare, commercial and education sectors in promoting a caring culture and an inclusive society. Through this meaningful initiative, we would like to call on the public to care for the elders and pay more attention to their needs."
To celebrate the extension of the project, Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, Chairman of "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team, remarked, "By providing correct information on eye care, we hope elderly people could clearly understand its importance and we also find regular eye check as an effective way to prevent serious eye diseases. Our volunteers will accompany the elderly for comprehensive primary eye care examinations. It proactively promotes intergenerational harmony and caring in the community."
Dr Allen Cheong, Assistant Professor of the School of Optometry, shared her views on common elderly eye diseases found in around 400 elderly who have joined the project. She explained that refractive error is the principal cause of visual impairment which can be substantially reduced by wearing appropriate refractive corrections. For uncorrectable visual impairment, the major causes are cataract, corneal abnormalities and glaucoma. She stressed that ocular health is vital to everyone, especially for the elderly. Regular and comprehensive check-ups help to prevent severe eye diseases and eyesight deterioration if symptoms can be found at an early stage. The optometrists would refer the elderly to the appropriate specialists for further examinations or timely treatment should any symptoms of eye diseases be detected.
About the School of Optometry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
The School of Optometry runs Hong Kong's only degree programme in Optometry leading to professional qualification as optometrists. Apart from nurturing talents to meet the needs of society, the School also provides eye care service for the general public through its four clinics: The Optometry Clinic at PolyU, the community clinics at the Integrated Community Health Centre (ICHC) at Lai King, at Our Lady of Maryknoll Hospital in Wong Tai Sin and at the Sik Sik Yuen - The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Optometry Centre.
About "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team
Founded by Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, BBS, JP, Chairman and CEO of Squina International Group Limited, in 2008, the "Loving Heart" Volunteer Team is made up of some 700 members, of which most of them are staff members, healthcare practitioners and students. It has been dedicated to providing thorough voluntary service for the needy in the community, with an emphasis on the healthcare service of the elderly. A number of health assessment, health and ocular health seminars, and home visits have been organized for the elderly over the past years.
