
[date]2011.10.24[/date]
[title]PolyU launches Beyond Entrepreneurship Forum[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the "Beyond Entrepreneurship Forum: How to develop an innovation-driven venture" has attracted more than 280 aspiring young entrepreneurs and founders of start-up companies, including a group of over 40 investors and entrepreneurs from the Silicon Valley who are collectively known as "Geeks on a Plane" (GOAP).
This forum aims to encourage the younger generations to set up innovative and impactful ventures with high economic, social and environmental values, and at the same time to co-create a congenial environment for Hong Kong to nurture more high-impact entrepreneurs.
In his welcoming address, PolyU Executive Vice President Mr Nicholas W. Yang said, "As implied by the name of the Forum, we hope to inspire the youth to step beyond convention, to think beyond short-term profit, and to consider beyond their local market, so that ultimately, they can develop a successful business that can bring benefits to the society at large."
The Forum today (24 October) began with two keynote speeches by Mr Jonathan Siegel representing the Geeks on a Plane; and PolyU alumnus Dr Johnny Ng, Chairman of Goldford Venture. These two elite entrepreneurs from both overseas and local have shared their own success stories and insights on entrepreneurship.
It was followed by two experience sharing panel discussions from local entrepreneurs and GOAP respectively. The Forum concluded with an interactive co-creation session where participants actively involved in the discussion on how to build a more vibrant ecosystem for nurturing more innovative and high impact entrepreneurs in Hong Kong. This forum not only provided a great networking opportunity to connect the venturous minds from the East and the West, but also served as an information exchange platform among the elite entrepreneurs.
Beyond Entrepreneurship Forum is one of the signature programmes in the "PolyU Entrepreneurship Parade" which is an initiative of PolyU to cultivate a "Do-well Do-good" entrepreneurship culture among PolyU students and graduates, and to nurture socially responsible entrepreneurs and leaders of tomorrow.
This event was held at the Harbour Plaza Metropolis Hotel. For more information of the Forum, please visit http://www.beyond-entrepreneurship.com.
