
[date]2011.06.24[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour five distinguished personalities at 17th Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon five prominent figures in recognition of their distinguished accomplishments and contributions at its 17th Congregation to be held on 29 October (Saturday).
This year's honorary degree recipients include: Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing, Chairman and Chief Executive of Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited; Professor John Nash, Nobel Laureate in Economics; Mr Ng Wing-hong, Director of Strong Fine Holdings Company Limited; Professor Yang Wei, President of Zhejiang University; and Professor Henry T. Yang, Chancellor of the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing is Chairman and Chief Executive of Gold Peak Industries (Holdings) Limited and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Hotel ICON Limited. He has been a staunch supporter of local creative industries in his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Hong Kong Design Centre and Chairman of CreatSmart Initiative Vetting Committee. With Mr Lo at the helm of PolyU Council from 2004 to 2009, he has been instrumental in setting the University on its way and fostering collaboration with the society and industries. He was honoured with the Gold Bauhinia Star by the HKSAR Government in 2001 for his contributions to the promotion of innovation and technology in Hong Kong.
Professor John Nash, Jr. is a renowned and well-respected scholar, distinguished as one of the foremost mathematical researchers and theorists of the 20th century. Senior Research Mathematician at Princeton University, Professor Nash received the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1994, in recognition of the "profound effect on the way economic theory has developed in the last two decades, following his analysis of equilibria in non-cooperative games and other contributions to game theory". In April 2009, Professor Nash shared his insights on "Ideal Money and Asymptotically Ideal Money" at the "Nobel Laureates Forum", a highlight of the Presidential Inauguration at PolyU. He also had an open dialogue with thousands of PolyU students and secondary school students, enlightening them with his life experience and his economic analysis.
Mr Ng Wing-hong is one of the first alumni of the then Government Trade School, the earliest predecessor of PolyU. At the age of 15, he quitted schooling to learn the trade of construction from his father. Being fully aware of the need for further education, he began his construction studies in the School's Department of Building in 1937. Upon graduation, he devoted the next 50 years to developing his business in construction. Now in his nineties, Mr Ng still maintains a strong tie with his alma mater. As a tribute to his commitment to the University, PolyU conferred on him the title of University Fellowship in 2005, named a teaching block on campus after him in 2008, and presented him with the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award in 2009.
Professor Yang Wei is the President of Zhejiang University and a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He has made important contributions in the fields of fracture mechanics, Mechatronic Reliability, and Micro/Nanomechanics, and has authored and co-authored 11 books and over 200  technical papers in internationally refereed journals. His distinguished academic career has earned him many awards, including Chinese Young Scientists Award and Second Class and Third Class National Natural Science Awards. Professor Yang exchanged ideas related to his area of expertise with PolyU staff and students when he was honoured with PolyU's Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholar in 2009. He has also been appointed to PolyU International Advisory Board since November 2010.
An eminent scholar in aerospace engineering, Professor Henry T. Yang is Chancellor and Professor of Mechanical Engineering of the University of California, Santa Barbara. He was formerly the Neil A. Armstrong Distinguished Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics at Purdue University, where he also served as the Dean of Engineering for ten years. Among the honours he has received are the Benjamin Garver Lamme gold medal from the American Society of Engineering Education and six honorary doctorates. With his rich experience in research and university administration, Professor Yang has been appointed to PolyU International Advisory Board since November 2010.
