
[date]2011.09.22[/date]
[title]One hundred PolyU students to join study tour to Guangzhou[/title]
This year marked the 100th Anniversary of China's 1911 Revolution. The Federation of Hong Kong Guangdong Community Organisations (FHKGCO) and The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have jointly organized a study tour for 100 PolyU students to visit the sites of revolution in Guangzhou and other parts of the city, hoping to enhance their understanding of modern Chinese history and the recent development of the Pearl River Delta Region.
The delegation will be led by FHKGCO Vice-Chairmen Mr Lam Kwong-yu, Ms Yeung Chi-hung and Dr Wong Chi-ho; and PolyU Vice President Professor Angelina Yuen. The 100 students will depart from the university campus together with Professor Yuen and Professor Huang Chu-ren, Dean of the Faculty of Humanities on 24 September (Saturday) to embark on the three-day study tour. They will first visit the former residence of Dr Sun Yat-sen in his hometown Cui Heng Village. The students will also have a chance to visit the Tomb of 72 Revolutionary Martyrs at Huanghuagang as well as the Whampoa Military Academy.
In order to enhance their underpinning academic foundation to ensure that participating students can take full benefit of this study tour, they are required to attend a lecture on the 1911 revolution by Professor Chak Chi-Shing of PolyU's Department of Chinese Culture.
Apart from visiting the former sites of revolution, participants will go to the top of Canton Tower for a bird-eye's view of the Guangzhou City. They will be briefed on the use of advanced optical fibre technology developed by PolyU experts for monitoring the structural health and safety of this tallest TV tower in the world. PolyU students will also meet with their counterparts from Sun Yat-Sen University, the university named after the leader of the 1911 revolution that ended China's monarchies, for exchange and discussion.
This large-scale study tour is co-ordinated by PolyU's Faculty of Humanities, which is also responsible for the recruitment of participants and pre-event lecture. The itinerary is arranged by the Faculty together with the University's Alumni Affairs and Development Office and the Chinese Mainland Affairs Office. The participating students came from different departments and most of them are undergraduate students. The delegation will return to Hong Kong in the afternoon on 26 September (Monday).
