
[date]2011.08.29[/date]
[title]PolyU student-athletes shine in major games[/title]
This year student-athletes of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have brought glory to Hong Kong with their spectacular performance in the 26th Shenzhen Summer Universiade 2011 and national games.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong warmly congratulated the student-athletes on their outstanding performances at a celebration party held on the university campus today (29 August). Mr Pang Chung, Honorary Secretary General of the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China (SF&amp;OC), and Mr Kenneth Fok, Honorary Deputy Secretary General of SF&amp;OC and Honorary Manager of Swimming Team, Hong Kong, China Delegation for the 26th Shenzhen Summer Universiade 2011, also attended this event.
During the Shenzhen Summer Universiade, the Hong Kong, China Delegation has brought home three bronze medals. The first medal was taken by Miss Au Yeung Wai-sum, a current student of MSc in E-Commerce, in Women's Individual Sabre. Miss Angel Wong, a graduate in Fashion and Textiles, earned the second bronze medal in Women's vault. Associate degree student Mr Lai Chun-ho snatched another bronze medal with his teammates in Men's 4x100 metres Relay.
Dr Patrick Chan, Head of the Hong Kong, China Delegation and Section Head (Physical Education) of PolyU's Student Affairs Office, said a total of 23 student-athletes from PolyU were shortlisted to represent Hong Kong in 9 events, including artistic gymnastic, athletic, basketball, beach volleyball, fencing, swimming, Taekwondo and Men's and Women's volleyball. He is pleased to note that all medallists were born and raised in Hong Kong. Another 10 PolyU staff and alumni also supported the Summer Universiade as team managers, coaches and physiotherapists.
Meanwhile, PolyU Badminton Team has achieved the best-ever result in the 15th All China Universities Badminton Championship held in Kunming, Yunnan Province from 28 July to 2 August by earning a champion in Men's Team Division A and two first runners-up in the Women's Doubles and Women's Team Division A.
PolyU has been actively supporting sports development of Hong Kong. In the 2011/12 academic year, around 60 students are admitted to the University through the Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme. The Scheme was introduced in 1998 and since then, some 450 outstanding sportsmen have been admitted to PolyU.
