
[date]2011.09.24[/date]
[title]Design for Elderly Competition 2012 kicks off at PolyU[/title]
With the support of the Education Bureau and Hong Kong Science Museum, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Senior Citizen Home Safety Association and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (Hong Kong Branch) have jointly organized "Design for Elderly Competition 2012" to encourage the younger generation and young engineers to show their creativity and concern for the elderly by developing innovative products or ideas.
An opening ceremony was held on the PolyU campus today (24 September) to mark the launch of the competition. Speaking at the occasion, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said, "PolyU is a university where innovation meets application. This event serves as an ideal platform for the younger generation to put their innovative ideas into practice and develop products that will make life easier for elderly people."
A knowledge session was arranged during the ceremony. Professor Alfred Chan, Chairman of Elderly Commission, Professor Kan Tai-keung, Founder and Creative Director of Kan and Lau Design Consultants, and Ir Edmund K. H. Leung, Past Chairman of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (Hong Kong Branch), were invited to share their professional views on designing elderly products from the aspects of elderly issue, design and engineering.
Ms Carmen Ng, Chairperson of the Organizing Committee, also encouraged participants to unleash their creativity by joining this meaningful competition. She said, "Through visits and sharing sessions, participants can gain a deeper understanding of the needs of the elderly. The event helps to promote a caring culture and a harmonious society."
Since its launch in 2003, the "Design for Elderly Competition" has gained staunch support from various organizations. The competition is open to secondary school students, tertiary students and young engineers aged under 35. This year, participating teams can choose between two themes: Product Design for Elderly and Innovative Ideas Presentation. Award winners will be selected based on the following judging criteria: methodology, product design/innovative ideas, presentation skills, originality and team work.
The deadline for the submission of application is 11 November 2011. For more information, please visit the official website at URL: www.designelderly.org.hk/
