
[date]2011.06.02[/date]
[title] PolyU President led senior delegation to visit Shanghai and Hangzhou[/title]
Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has recently led a senior delegation to visit Shanghai and Hangzhou. The delegation has met with PolyU alumni in the cities and Mr Jin De-Shui, the newly-appointed party secretary of Zhejiang University. They have also signed two agreements with Tongji University. 　The delegates included Mr Victor Lo, Court Member; Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); Professor Teng Jin-Guang, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Land Use; Professor HC Man, Associate Dean of the Faculty of Engineering; Professor Tak Lee, Associate Dean of the School of Design; Professor Kaye Chon, Dean of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management; Ms Kitty Yam, Director of Alumni Affairs and Development; and Dr Laura Lo, Director of Chinese Mainland Affairs. The delegation first went to Tongji University in Shanghai, where Professor Tong and their President Professor Pei Gang signed two agreements for the joint supervision of PhD and MPhil students. Both parties will set up a steering group to follow the students' learning progress so that they can meet the requirements of both sides.
On the same occasion, Vice President Professor Angelina Yuen also signed a tripartite cooperation agreement valued at RMB 8 million with Tongji University Vice President Professor Wu Jiang and Professor Ding Jie-Ming, Director of the University's Architectural Design and Research Institute. This consultancy project agreement will provide a framework to bring together the expertise of both institutions for monitoring the structural behaviour of Shanghai Center Tower.
After leaving Shanghai, the delegation led by Professor Tong went to Hangzhou and visited Mr Jin De-Shui, the newly appointed Party Secretary of Zhejiang University. They discussed ways to further the cooperation between both institutions. Professor Tong also met with 12 PolyU PhD graduates who are now teaching at Zhejiang University. All of them had taken up research posts at PolyU and they now play an important bridging role across the border. The visit concluded with a dinner party hosted by the alumni of PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management. The event was joined by over 140 local alumni and community leaders. Professor Tong and Dean Chon also introduced the latest development of the teaching and research hotel (Hotel ICON) on this occasion. 　　The quality control master courses jointly offered in Hangzhou by PolyU and Zhejiang University have been well received by the local people. The first batches of alumni now play a key role in the construction of Shengzhou, a city near Hangzhou. Professor Angelina Yuen also made a special trip to meet with Mr Sheng Qiu-Ping, an alumni of the programme and now Party Secretary of Shengzhou.
Despite his hectic schedule, Professor Tong also spared some time to meet with some PolyU students who were joining exchange activities in Shanghai.
