
[date]2011.10.13[/date]
[title]PolyU takes steps to promote language science by hosting a major conference and setting up the PolyU– Tsinghua U Centre for Language Sciences[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is taking a two-pronged approach to advance the study of language sciences. The University's Department of English is hosting the 7th International Symposium on Teaching English at Tertiary Level (ISTETL) from 13 to 14 October 2011. This occasion will also see the inauguration of the PolyU' Tsinghua U Centre for Language Sciences by PolyU and Tsinghua University.
Following the successful convening of the previous six symposia in the same series, the 7th ISTETL will be taking place under the joint organisation of the Department of English, PolyU; and the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures of Tsinghua University, Beijing. The School of International Studies of Zhejiang University also contributed to this Symposium as a co-organiser.
The 7th ISTETL has provided a platform for academics to discuss and probe into various challenging issues pertaining to teaching English at tertiary level. Contributions were invited from a large number of English language education experts, researchers, scholars and doctorate students. Honourable speakers include Professor Alister Cumming from the University of Toronto, Professor Christian M.I.M. Matthiessen from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and three renowned experts on language assessment from the Chinese mainland: Professor He Lianzhen, Professor Jin Yan, and Professor Zou Shen.
The inauguration of the PolyU-Tsinghua U Centre for Language Sciences (PTCLS) is a milestone signifying a further strengthening of intercollegiate relations between the two departments on the basis of the existing close academic collaboration for more than a decade at multiple levels.
PTCLS is another outcome of the continued efforts by PolyU's Faculty of Humanities after the establishment of PolyU ' Peking U Research Centre on Chinese Linguistics. The launch of PTCLS not only testifies to the long friendship and frequent exchange between PolyU and Tsinghua University, but also manifests the on-going diversified co-operation between the two institutions in the area of language sciences.
"The Centre was inaugurated at a time when the Faculty of Humanities, PolyU, just launched its professional doctorate programme, Doctor of Applied Language Sciences (DALS). These two initiatives will certainly further enhance the research culture of the Faculty of Humanities at PolyU, especially in the domain of language sciences," said Professor David Qian, Professor of the Department of English and Director of PTCLS.
PTCLS is operated by two parallel Centre Offices in Hong Kong and Beijing respectively. The mission of PTCLS is to promote, facilitate, host and organize academic activities between the two Departments, to deepen our understanding of the nature, development, learning, teaching and use of English as a second or foreign language or as an international lingua franca, in classrooms, professional workplaces and other speech communities.
The Centre will disseminate its research findings from joint research projects on applied linguistics and on English language teaching and learning through running a series of international symposia, roundtables, seminars and workshops so as to enhance academic exchange and exercise positive influence on researching and teaching English at the tertiary level in Asia and beyond.
 
