
[date]2011.11.17[/date]
[title]PolyU kicks off celebrations for 75th Anniversary[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be celebrating its 75th anniversary next year with the theme "Innovation and Application for the Future". The kick-off ceremony held today (17 November) on its campus was well attended by around 500 guests from all sectors of the PolyU community, including students from the first cohort in 1937.
The ceremony was hosted by the Honourable Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Chairman of PolyU Council; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. Mr Edward Cheng Wai-sun, Chairman of the University Grants Committee (UGC), was the Guest-of-Honour.
On this memorable occasion, Mr Edward Cheng delivered his maiden speech in the public as UGC Chairman. He said, "The future of Hong Kong so much depends on the quality of our graduates, and we are fortunate to have the contribution of PolyU in the past 75 years. I would like to congratulate Marjorie and Professor Tong, and PolyU's Council members, staff, students and alumni on their outstanding achievements."
He also paid tribute to PolyU colleagues for their drive to establish and strengthen global links, which include partnerships with more than 560 institutions in over 40 countries and regions. "I am also impressed by your determination to expand the horizon of students not only by providing exchange opportunities, but also by creating a more internationalised campus through various initiatives," said Mr Cheng.
Mr Cheng also called upon fellow faculty members of PolyU to capture this valuable opportunity offered by the four-year curriculum (which will be implemented in 2012), to enhance and broaden PolyU's education for the undergraduates.
Professor Tong is pleased to note that over the past 75 years, the institution has grown from its humble beginning as a government trade school with some 70 students in the early days to the present 30,000, the largest among publicly-funded universities in Hong Kong.
"Today, PolyU has nurtured more than 300,000 graduates, many of whom have become movers and shakers in business and industry, and influential leaders in their professions. Our research and innovations have won applause and honour around the world while meeting the evolving needs of our society." He also registered a vote of thanks to the able leadership of past Council Members and his predecessors, as well as the dedication and support of staff members, students and alumni.
PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) Professor Angelina Yuen, Executive Chairman of the 75th Anniversary Celebrations Organising Committee, said the celebratory activities would be grouped under three key areas, namely Knowledge Transfer, Innovation and Technology, and Community Services.
The special occasion has brought together community leaders with distinct contribution for the advancement of the Institution in different eras. They included former Council Member Dr Jack Tang, whose late father Dr Tang Ping-yuan chaired the Planning Committee for the then Hong Kong Polytechnic; and Professor Roy Chung, Chairman of PolyU Court. In addition, about 30 Consul Generals and the senior representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in HKSAR and the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government also attended the event.
A video rekindling the illustrious history and achievements of the Institution was shown to the audience comprising community leaders, friends and partners, alumni, as well as staff and students during the ceremony. Alumni from all over the world and the current students sent in their best wishes for PolyU through a video.
The kick-off ceremony will be followed by a series of celebratory activities running from January 2012 till the end of next year. PolyU has also set up a special website for its 75th Anniversary. For details and information on upcoming events, please visit URL: 75.polyu.hk
Members of the public are also welcome to visit the Exhibition on PolyU's History on the university campus from now until 31 December 2012.
The Institution has progressed from its earliest days as the Government Trade School, founded in 1937, to become the Hong Kong Technical College after World War II, eventually becoming the Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1972, Hong Kong's first and largest tertiary institution providing technical education at post-secondary and degree levels. Since 1994, PolyU has assumed the full status of a university.
