
[date]2011.11.05[/date]
[title]PolyU opens the "door" to its House of Innovation in cyberspace[/title]
With a strategic emphasis on applied research and innovation, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently established a technology showroom on the cyberspace namely "Virtual House of Innovation (HoI)". The platform has been launched earlier this month and it will be showed to the public at the PolyU booth during the 2011 InnoCarnival held in the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks.
The Virtual HoI is a computer simulation of the physical one on campus, integrated with the elements of "Education", "Excellence", "Experience" and "Entertainment', showcasing the University's innovation and research output in recent years.
In fact, PolyU is the first local educational institution with a virtual technology museum, which gathers the University's wide range of expertise and state-of-the-art technologies grouped in eight categories, including Engineering and Applied Physics, Construction and Environmental Technology, Biotechnology and Healthcare, Telecom and Information Technology, Textile and Fashion, Design, Space Walk, and Green Innovation.
Located in the heart of PolyU campus, the HoI in reality has long been serving as a promotional platform for PolyU to showcase its diverse range of expertise and application-oriented innovations, thereby facilitating knowledge and technology transfer from the University to the community. The Virtual HoI will now help to extend its geographical reach of audience, both locally and globally. Not only does the local public can pay a visit to PolyU's showroom, but the overseas visitors can also access this online museum anytime and anywhere, thus enjoying a truly self-guided tour service around the clock.
The University hopes that this online showroom can enable the general public to experience and appreciate PolyU's achievement in applied research, thus enhance their interest and support in innovation and technology.
To arouse interest of the youngsters, two interactive educational games have been incorporated in the Virtual HoI so that they can learn while enjoying the game. A lovely ambassador, Dr HoI, has also been created to protect the "treasures" (i.e. the University's intellectual properties) inside the Virtual HoI. Dr HoI is expected to attract young children.
The official website of PolyU's Virtual HoI is at URL http://www.pdo.polyu.edu.hk/virtualhoi/
 
