
[date]2011.06.30[/date]
[title]Community Weather Information Network wins Royal Meteorological Society award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Observatory (HKO) have jointly won the 2010 Vaisala Award for Weather Observing and Instrumentation by the Royal Meteorological Society (RMetS) for their joint project  "Community Weather Information Network (Co-WIN)". This prestigious award was presented to the Director of the HKO, Mr Shun Chi-ming, and the Head of the Department of Applied Physics of HK Poly U, Professor Helen Chan, at the RMetS Conference on June 29 (UK time) in Exeter, UK.
The RMetS's Vaisala Award, presented every two years, was given to the HKO and HK Poly U in recognition of their joint effort in raising community awareness toward weather and climate through the establishment of Co-WIN in Hong Kong. In its citation for the award, the RMetS highlighted Co-WIN's success in enabling people of all ages, in particular schoolchildren, to appreciate the elements through hands-on activities in running weather stations. Apart from weather-data sharing, Co-WIN also provides a platform for the exchange of observational experiences and for the organisation of related educational activities. The RMetS also recognised Co-WIN's achievement in demonstrating how groups can work together to deliver high-quality community education on weather and climate for the benefit of all.
Mr Shun said, "The Vaisala Award represents the culmination of creativity and innovation by two former Directors of the Observatory, Mr Lam Chiu-ying and Dr Lee Boon-ying; the dedication and passion of HK Poly U's Department of Applied Physics, led by Professor Helen Chan, to provide quality lifelong learning experiences; and the enthusiasm and solidarity of all Co-WIN members in the pursuit of excellence in science education."
Co-WIN is a collaborative effort of the HKO, HK Poly U and the Hong Kong Joint-school Meteorological Association. The number of Co-WIN members has nearly tripled since it was established in August 2007, from 35 to 98 at present. Co-WIN members now span a wide spectrum of the community, covering primary and secondary schools, an elderly centre, the Scout Association of Hong Kong and WWF Hong Kong. Organisations interested in joining Co-WIN are invited to visit Co-WIN's website at weather.ap.polyu.edu.hk/aboutus.php.
