
[date]2011.09.19[/date]
[title]PolyU dedicates Learning Resources Centre to The Yuen Yuen Institute[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (19 September) named the Learning Resources Centre of its School of Nursing after The Yuen Yuen Institute in recognition of its ardent support and recent donations of $2.25 million to the University.A commemorative plaque was unveiled during the ceremony, by Dr Gloria Tam, Deputy Director of Health, Department of Health of HKSAR; Dr Chan Kwok-chiu, Mr Tang Kam-hung, both Vice Chairmen of The Yuen Yuen Institute; Ms Cheung Mui-kwai, Mr Henry Tong Sau-chai, both Directors of The Yuen Yuen Institute; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President; Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement &amp; Partnership), Professor Maurice Yap, Dean, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Professor Samantha Pang, Head, School of Nursing, PolyU.Addressing the ceremony, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, said, "We are grateful for the generous support from The Yuen Yuen Institute which has provided our School of Nursing with impetus to its future development. The naming of this Learning Resources Centre serves the dual purpose of expressing our gratitude and encouraging our students to strive for continuous improvement in their career as health care professionals."The donation is the second major support received from The Yuen Yuen Institute to the School of Nursing since 2007 when the School's Chinese Medicinal Nursing Laboratory was also named after the Institute. The donation will support the further development as well as upgrading the learning resources of the School. The Learning Resources Centre is home to a wide collection of learning materials including books, theses, and serial titles. A plasma television, DVD player, VCR, desktop computers and printers are equipped to facilitate learning activities such as self-study, research and group discussion.Over the years, The Institute has provided strong support to PolyU in grooming nursing professionals. Since 2008, the School of Nursing's Ageing and Health Research Group has fostered a strong collaboration with The Yuen Yuen Institute. A model nursing home project for The Yuen Yuen Nursing Home has also been conducted since 2007 and it will be extended to other locations in the coming years. The School also provides advisory and consultancy roles on nursing services on elderly healthcare for the Institute. 
