
[date]2011.11.04[/date]
[title]Professor John Nash in dialogue with hundreds of students[/title]
Professor John F. Nash Jr., Nobel Laureate in Economics in 1994, today (4 November) had an Open Dialogue with hundreds of Hong Kong students at the newly opened Auditorium of Diocesan Girls' School. Hosted by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), this event has enlightened many students with Professor Nash's wealth of knowledge and his life experience.
Addressing the full house of audience, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong said the University was keen to enrich students' experience through worthwhile activities like the Open Dialogue, which would prepare students to rise up to future challenges in this competitive world.
It was the second time that Professor John Nash visited the University within three-year's time. He has made a special trip to receive the conferment of honorary doctorate at the 17th Congregation of PolyU on 29 October (Saturday). The Open Dialogue was the only event dedicated for secondary students during Professor John Nash's brief stay in Hong Kong.
The participants, ranged from senior forms to university, showed great curiosity on the research of Professor Nash as well as his own legendary life. The participants found Professor Nash ingenious and friendly and were thrilled to have this life-time opportunity to meet this distinguished economist. They also put forward many interesting questions for the world renowned economist and were provided with insightful answers.
Professor Nash is a world-renowned and esteemed scholar, distinguished as one of the foremost mathematical researchers and theorists of the 20th century. He was awarded a Nobel Prize in Economics in 1994, in recognition of the 'profound effect on the way economy theory has developed in the last two decades, following his analysis of equilibria in non-cooperative games and other contributions to game theory'.
In view of the overwhelming response, the University has also arranged live broadcast for local secondary schools to see the Open Dialogue in their own premises. RTHK will also recap the Open Dialogue and show it on the Saturday Programme via ATV Home Channel.
 
