
[date]2011.10.29[/date]
[title]PolyU President salutes achievements of graduates[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has sent forth about 10,800 graduates at its 17th Congregation. The ceremony was held today (29 October) on the university campus, with PolyU Council Chairman the Honourable Marjorie Yang Mun-tak and President Professor Timothy W. Tong presiding over the event.
Speaking at the Congregation, Professor Tong said, "I am pleased to note that the total number of graduates groomed by the university and its forerunners has exceeded 300,000. Many of them have become movers and shakers in business and industry, and leaders in their professions. They have not only contributed to the economic prosperity and social well-being of Hong Kong, but have also facilitated the urbanisation and industrialisation of the Pearl River Delta."
The Congregation also saw the conferment of honorary doctorates upon five prominent figures in recognition of their distinguished accomplishments and contributions. The honorary degree recipients are: former Council Chairman of PolyU Mr Victor Lo Chung-wing; Nobel Prize winner Professor John F. Nash, Jr.; the loyal PolyU alumnus Mr Ng Wing-hong; Professor Henry T. Yang, Chancellor of the University of California, Santa Barbara; and Professor Yang Wei, President of Zhejiang University. (Please see attachment for details.)
Professor Tong said the university was delighted to honour these five distinguished academics and business leaders who have made significant contributions to the well-being of the world each in their own expert areas and are well deserved of this academic accolade. Among them, Mr Ng Wing-hong, 95, is also an alumnus of the first cohort of graduates in 1939.
Meanwhile, PolyU's teaching programmes have been moving with the times and coping with great social and economic changes in Hong Kong and the region over the decades.
In the early years, when Hong Kong industries were expanding, the institution educated tens of thousands of professionals in the fields of construction, engineering, navigation, commerce and textiles. As our society has progressed, PolyU has also nurtured a great number of health care, social services and management professionals. To support Hong Kong in its development into a major global centre of commerce, PolyU has expanded its programmes to include language and translation, logistics, design and tourism.
With the advent of a fast-changing and complex globalised economy, the university has moved beyond the provision of professional and academic education of students, striving to provide a variety of learning opportunities for students to develop their all-round abilities, thus enabling them to be more competitive. 
Looking ahead, Professor Tong said PolyU is determined to scale new heights with its fine-tuned vision which reads as follows: "Be a leading university that excels in professional education, applied research and partnership for the betterment of Hong Kong, the nation and the world."
The university also devotes a great deal of effort to research. "PolyU is a place where innovation meets application. Our research is meant to serve the practical needs of society," said Professor Tong, "the research (of research postgraduates) has contributed, or has the potential to contribute, to the well-being of the community."
The Congregation has sent forth altogether 144 Doctor of Philosophy, 26 discipline-based Doctor's degree, 71 Master of Philosophy, 3,851 Master's degree, 5,018 Bachelor's degree, 105 postgraduate diploma and certificate and 1,580 sub-degree awards.
