
[date]2011.10.27[/date]
[title]PolyU names logo square after Dr and Mrs Chan Sui-kau[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) named its Logo Square after philanthropists Dr and Mrs Chan Sui-kau in recognition of their benevolence and generous donation to support PolyU's long-term development.
At a naming ceremony held today (27 October), Dr Chan Sui-kau, Founding Chairman of Yangtzekiang Garment Limited, presented a donation cheque of $8 million to Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. A commemorative plaque was also unveiled during the ceremony by Dr Chan Sui-kau, his wife Mrs Chan Lam Moon-chun, Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council, and Professor Tong. 
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Dr and Mrs Chan and the Chan's family for their ardent support to the university over the years. The contribution is an endorsement to the efforts that PolyU has made and it will guide us further to become a leading university in offering professional education, advancing applied research as well as maintaining close partnerships with the business and industry."
Dr Chan Sui-kau is a prominent philanthropist and founder of Yangtzekiang Garment Limited and the YGM Group. Dr Chan and his family have a long affiliation with the university and Dr Chan was also a founding member of PolyU Court. Over the years, the Chan's family has made substantial contributions to PolyU. In 2002, PolyU named a building on campus after his brother the late Mr Chan Sui-wai in recognition of the generous donation from the Chan's Family Charity Trust to support the university's future development. In 2009, Dr Chan further donated to PolyU to set up a Centre for Sports Rehabilitation in Guangzhou.
A leading industrialist in the textile and apparel industry, Dr Chan was elected President of the Federation of Hong Kong Garment Manufacturers in 1977 and he is currently its Life Honorary President. He also helped found the Textile Council of Hong Kong in 1988, serving as its first Chairman and he remains its Honorary Chairman today. He was appointed a Justice of the Peace in 1983, awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star in 2002 and in 2008 he was awarded HKSAR's highest honour - the Great Bauhinia Medal. He holds Honorary Doctorates from PolyU, City University of Hong Kong and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
Located in the heart of the PolyU campus, Chan Sui Kau and Chan Lam Moon Chun Square boasts a net floor area of around 850 square metres.
