
[date]2011.09.10[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold 19th Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, held its Nineteenth Congregation today (10 September) on the PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated by Professor Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director of WMG (formerly known as Warwick Manufacturing Group) and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. Ir Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council, was the Guest of Honour. This year, the Congregation saluted a total of 96 graduates.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong congratulated both the graduates on their successful completion of the programme and awardees of the Coils Electronics Co., Limited Scholarships and Kolinker Industrial Equipments Limited Scholarships on their excellent academic performance. He said, "The programme serves to sharpen the professionals' competitive edges by equipping them with advanced technological expertise and management skills. After 20 years of close collaboration, we have proudly sent forth more than 1,900 graduates. I am confident that our graduates will make the best use of the knowledge and experience acquired through the programme, and contribute to making the society a better place for everyone." During the ceremony, Mr Lam Wai-chun, Chairman and Executive Director of CEC International Holdings Limited, was re-appointed Industrial Fellow of the University of Warwick.
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, leadership and excellence, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management, service design and delivery.
