
[date]2011.07.11[/date]
[title]Study Tour on Space Technology for University Students draws to a close[/title]
Thirty-four students of eight local tertiary institutions have paid a visit to the China Astronaut Research and Training Centre (CARTC) in Beijing organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) this summer. During the study trip, the participants were given the opportunity to experience the training of Chinese astronauts on site and met with three national astronauts in person.
The territory's first ever Study Tour on Space Technology for University Students was jointly organized by PolyU, CARTC and Beijing Institute of Technology. A Closing Ceremony was held on the university campus today (11 July) with the presence of Mr Zhang Xueli, Deputy Director General of Youth Department of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR and Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development).
The objective of this study tour was to help university students deepen their knowledge of national developments, especially in the field of the space technology. Participants were given the opportunity to experience the training of Chinese astronauts on site, understand the latest development of the country's space technology, and thereby cultivating their interests in space science.
Led by Professor Alex Wai, the six-day study tour included an open dialogue with mainland aerospace experts during which student participants could gain a better understanding of the development of national space technology, training principles and programme of astronauts, and issues related to space bio-medicine.
In addition, student participants could get a taste of space food and have a try of the escape chute used for training at CARTC. Fei Junlong, Nie Haisheng and Liu Boming, astronauts of Shenzhou-6 and Shenzhou-7 Manned Space Flight Missions, also shared their flight experience with the students in an exchange session.
Upon their return, all participants took part in the project-based learning exercise so as to deepen their knowledge of national space technology.
Over the years, PolyU has built up a strong credential for active participation in space research and is proud to have made a contribution to national space projects. The good relationship between PolyU and mainland space authorities gave rise to this study tour.
