
[date]2011.06.01[/date]
[title]PolyU Design Show demonstrates students' flair in design[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s School of Design Annual Show was opened today (1 June) by internationally renowned designer Mr Henry Stenier, Founder of Steiner Co. and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
The Show has put on display the final-year projects of the students from the School's Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Design, Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Digital Media, Higher Diploma in Multimedia Design and Technology, and Higher Diploma in Product Innovation Technologies, covering a range of specialisms including advertising, digital media, environment and interior, industrial and product, or visual communication design.
Addressing at the ceremony, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, said, "The Annual Show is one of the biggest design events in Hong Kong. It is a celebration of our students' innovation and passion for design. It also provides a platform for our students, industry partners and members of the public to share their views on the making of good design."
Out of about 180 projects displayed at the Annual Show, 14 projects from each discipline were named Best of Show. These include the "Game Commune", a charity casino designed for Sai Wan to stimulate interactive ageing. "Lost in Mixmatch Strangeland", a set of character toys designed to help build confidence in children through sensory experimentation and story-telling. "The Listening Project", a visual design formed by reflections of recorded fragments of urban sounds, with an aim to visualizing intangible experiences of our culture, to name but a few.
The Annual Show at the InnoCentre in Kowloon Tong is free and open to the public. Guided tours are available and groups are advised to register early at the event website. Details are as follows:
PolyU Design Annual Show 2011
Dates: 1 - 14 June
Hours 11:30 a.m. - 8:30 p.m. (Daily)
Exhibition venue: InnoCentre (Ground Floor, 72 Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon Tong)
Event website: http://www.as2011.info/
About PolyU's School of Design
Being the sole provider of design education at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in Hong Kong, the School of Design has been an important hub of design education and research since 1964. The School, ranked as one of the Top 30 design schools in Asia and in the world by BusinessWeek, is poised to play a key role in nurturing new generations of designers and driving the design industry in the region.
A new complex will be built on campus to further drive the development of Hong Kong as a design hub in Asia. The complex, tentatively named "Innovation Tower", will be the first permanent architectural work in Hong Kong of Ms Zaha Hadid, one of the most influential figures in the world of modern architecture. It is targeted for completion by mid 2012.
Famous designers who graduated from PolyU's School of Design include world-renowned fashion designer Ms Vivienne Tam, Oscar-winner and Director for Shrek Mr Raman Hui, founder of international luxury jewellery brand Qeelin Mr Dennis Chan, designer of the Saab Aero-X concept car Mr Anthony Lo, and Partner of Kan &amp; Lau Design Consultants Mr Freeman Lau, amongst others.
