
[date]2011.09.07[/date]
[title]PolyU promotes service learning among business students[/title]
To widen students' vision and broaden their horizons, the Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been engaging students in service learning.
Speaking at a community service recognition ceremony today (7 September), President Professor Timothy W. Tong said that PolyU is committed to nurturing all-round students. Apart from fostering students' academic development, the university aims to instil in them a serving heart and a sense of social responsibility.
The recognition ceremony was hosted by the Faculty of Business to acknowledge individual and organizational participants of their community service project named FB CARES. Since its launch in September 2010, 140 business students have been working with the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, The Boys' &amp; Girls' Clubs Association of Hong Kong, The Hong Kong Council of Social Service, The Hongkong Federation of Youth Groups, Footprint, Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital, Shatin Hospital, ORBIS and other organizations to serve children, the youth, the elderly, cancer patients and others.
The Faculty's Acting Dean Professor Howard Davies, who saw the students' personal and spiritual growth through planning, organizing and participating in community services, expressed his appreciation for support from all parties. He remarked that the project witnesses the collaborative efforts of community leaders, Non-governmental organizations, corporations, staff, alumni and students to arouse social conscience and to work for a stronger and better community.
Mr Lee Jark Pui, SBS, JP, Chairman of the Agency for Volunteer Service, is also Honorary Advisor to FB CARES. He stressed that to develop a sustainable community and an equitable society, we need young people to contribute their energy and talent to inspire and invigorate the community spirit. He invited the students and organizations to share their enthusiasm and experiences with volunteers around the world by taking part in activities of the International Volunteer Day and the 10th anniversary of the International Year of Volunteers.
Management student Terrence Cheung found that community service contributed to his personal development. "I learned more about the needs of the society. I also improved my communication skills and applied critical thinking to analyzing a situation," he said. Iris Poon, an international shipping and transport logistics student, became aware that there could be different ways of solving a problem. "You've got to be attentive and willing to spend time to talk with people before you can help them," she said.The project exhibition staged on the PolyU campus runs until 9 September noon. It features eleven items under the project.-  The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA): ACCA Charity Fun Day  and Elderly Home Visit-  The Boys' &amp; Girls' Clubs Association of Hong Kong: Child Development Fund  Project ' Growing Partners-  The Hong Kong Council of Social Service: Citi Community Intern Programme 2010-11-  The Hongkong Federation of Youth Groups: Lunar New Year Carnival, Youth Volunteer  Network-  Footprint: The Hong Kong Green Youth Ambassador Programme -  Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital: HandinHand Service Project for discharged  cancer survivors-  Shatin Hospital: Part-time Home Helper Service for families with elderly patients  discharged from the hospital-  ORBIS: Student Ambassador Campaign 2010-11 Fund Raising
