
[date]2011.06.08[/date]
[title]Elite students gear up for Global Student Challenge[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) as a major initiative to embrace internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship, PolyU Innovation and Entrepreneurship Global Student Challenge (GSC) 2011 has attracted more than 190 teams from secondary schools and universities from 27 countries and territories.
Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (International and Executive Education) and Chairman of GSC Organizing Committee, said, "We are extremely pleased to host this competition which provides a unique opportunity for students to develop innovative and entrepreneurial potential and broaden their global perspective and networks."
In view of the growing importance of corporate social responsibility in the business community and the emergence of social enterprises, a sub-theme of Corporate Social Responsibility / Social Enterprise was added this year along with Health and Wellness, Lifestyle and Environment &amp; Sustainability. Participants have an option of choosing to work on their business proposals under any of, or none of the four sub-themes.
A PolyU team has advanced to the Semi-Final of GSC on 13 June with their innovative product R-Water which can effectively purify wastewater. With the use of PolyU-developed "smart core-shell nano-sorbent" technology, wastewater can be purified and reused after its soluble pollutants are absorbed by chitosan and nano-sorbent. Their mission is to combat severe water scarcity and pollution problems across China, providing economic, reliable and sustainable water for mainland industries.
The PolyU team is among the 30 finalist teams in the University Division. Another 30 teams have also been shortlisted for the Secondary School Division (full list of GSC 2011 Shortlisted teams). They will present their innovative business proposal to the panel of judges at the Semi-Final, competing for a place in the Final to be held on 16 June.
The judging of business proposals are based on four criteria: innovation and creativity, technical soundness, organizational plan and management structure, and projection of financial performance. The participating teams will also be judged during their presentation performance by their effectiveness of delivery, time management and Q&amp;A session.
In addition, all finalist teams are required to produce a 60-second video for their business products/services in the format of "Elevator Pitch". The video will be broadcast at the Semi-Final, Final and the Gala Ceremony on 16 June evening.
Winners of Gold, Silver, Bronze, Commendation Awards as well as the Theme Award and Best of the Best Commercial Award for each division will be selected and announced at the Gala Ceremony. The awardees will each receive a cash prize, a trophy and a certificate. 
During their stay in Hong Kong, GSC participants will have ample opportunities interacting with their peers through an array of activities accompanied by PolyU Student Ambassadors. The comprehensive excursion programme range from educational visits to the Hong Kong Science Park and Cyberport to fun occasions such as Ocean Park visit, Harbour Cruise and Tai-chi experience.
The University is grateful to the following sponsors for their ardent support to the GSC:
Diamond SponsorDr Margaret Choi Lee Wai-lai
Emerald SponsorsChevalier Group The Mira Hong Kong
Official CarriersCathay Pacific Airways LimitedHong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited
For more details about GSC 2011, please visit the official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/polyuchallenge
