
[date]2011.11.18[/date]
[title]PolyU to give recognition to HKDSE students with good OEA during admission selection[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (18 November) announced that they will give recognition to HKDSE students with good "Other Experiences and Achievements" (OEA) during admission selection. In addition to the regular rounds of admission interviews which may be conducted by individual Broad Disciplines and programmes, special admission interview arrangements will be made for the first cohort of HKDSE applicants to recognize their good OEA performance. 
PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Professor Walter W. Yuen said the University is now working on the development of a fair and transparent framework for short-listing HKDSE applicants with good OEA for special admission interview. The criteria are applicable to those who have chosen PolyU programmes(s) as their Band A choice(s) in the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS).
"We hope that the interview arrangement will provide HKDSE students, who have done well in their OEA and with all-round development, with an additional opportunity to demonstrate their talents and potentials for pursuing tertiary education to our academic colleagues. With this objective in mind, the outcome of these special interviews will only bring about positive impact on the selected applicants' overall admission results. For those who have performed well in the interviews, bonus marks will be given, which will be added to the applicants' admission scores to enhance their chances of admission," stressed Professor Yuen.
Mr CK Wan, Head of PolyU's Office of Secondary School Relations and Outreach, further explained that whilst PolyU will continue to give special consideration to applicants who have very exceptional achievements in well-recognized international competitions, e.g. Medallists or representative in the Olympics or the East Asian Games, by giving them direct offers as long as they can fulfil the general entrance requirements of PolyU. The new interview arrangement is introduced for those who have also achieved good results in well-recognized academic or non-academic competitions, e.g. Honourable Mention or Special Prize in International Olympiads of Mathematics and Science, or have demonstrated all-round development.
The criteria for short-listing candidates will be based on the information provided by applicants in the OEA section of the JUPAS application form. Applicants who possess the above-mentioned achievements will be automatically selected for interviews for most of the UGC-funded degree programmes offered by PolyU.   
The University plans to conduct the above admission interviews before the announcement of HKDSE results. In order not to disturb the hectic study schedule of NSS students who will be sitting for the first HKDSE, the interview will be arranged after the Diploma examination in the middle of May 2012.
More details about the interview arrangement of individual faculties/schools and departments will be announced in the website Study@PolyU (URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/study) in due course.
In addition, PolyU will be offering a series of eight-week summer courses in Mathematics on a self-financed basis for those HKDSE applicants who have not taken the M1 / M2 module in the New Secondary School (NSS) Curriculum and who have chosen relevant PolyU programmes as their JUPAS Band A choices.
"Students may enrich their mathematical knowledge and skills in a less stressful environment after finishing their HKDSE examination," said Dr Chan Chi-kin, Associate Head of the University's Department of Applied Mathematics. 
The course aims to better prepare NSS students for some university majors which require the knowledge of statistics, calculus and algebra. Students might choose up to four out of six units and complete each unit in two-weeks' time, with 30 contact hours for each unit.
The courses will be arranged after the HKDSE examination and before the announcement of HKDSE result, which means between the period of 14 May to 6 July 2012.
