
[date]2011.11.24[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the Chinese mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (24 November) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme". The ceremony was presided over by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. The distinguished scholars are Professor Wang Xifan, Professor of Xi'an Jiaotong University; Professor Lin Guoqiang, Professor of Shanghai Institute of Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences; Professor Jiang Boju, Professor of Peking University; Professor Yuan Xingpei, Professor of Peking University; Professor Liu Jingnan, Professor of Wuhan University; and Professor Zhong Wanxie, Professor of Dalian University of Technology. All the scholars, except Professor Yuan Xingpei who is a cultural and historical scholar, are either Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences or Members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, are presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on the PolyU campus. They also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics. Professor Wang Xifan is a renowned power system specialist who has a wide range of research interests including power system analysis, generation planning and transmission system planning, reliability evaluation, power market and novel transmission schemes. Through studying the technical and economic aspects of the power system of the Three Gorge Project, he has proven a series of theories in support of the planning and reliability studies of the massive project and thus been recognized as the founder of Power System Planning studies in China by using modern operational research theories. His research achievements have earned him the First-class Natural Science Award of the Ministry of Education, the Fourth-class National Natural Science Award, and the First-class Science and Technology Progress Award of the Ministry of Education.
Professor Lin Guoqiang is a distinguished scholar in the field of organic chemistry. He studies the structural elucidation and syntheses of biologically active natural products, asymmetric syntheses of bioactive and drug molecules, and biotransformation and its applications. He has been an Executive Board Member for international publications Tetrahedron and Tetrahedron Letters since 1992, and Director of the Division of Chemical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China since 2006. Among his numerous awards are the honorary title of 'Outstanding Professor' of the Graduate School, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the Science and Technology Progress Award of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation.
Professor Jiang Boju has been studying topological fixed point theory and low-dimensional topology for a long time. In the 1960s, he introduced the notion of track group and made a breakthrough in the computation of the Nielsen number. In the past decade, he and a co-author applied Nielsen theory to solve the braid-forcing problem in two-dimensional dynamics, which brings a kind of order into the tangling periodic orbits of a system. His achievements have won him the National Natural Science Award of China, the Chern Prize in Mathematics, the Hua Loo-Keng Mathematics Prize, and the Science and Technology Progress Award of the Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation.
Professor Yuan Xingpei specialises in the literary studies of Wei &amp; Jin Dynasties and Southern and Northern Dynasties. His major work History of Chinese Literature (four volumes, chief editor) is the textbook most commonly used in mainland universities. His research interests encompass the work of Tao Yuanming and the Chinese civilization. His massive publication of History of Chinese Civilization (four volumes, co-edited) was first made in 2006 and its English edition will be launched by Cambridge University Press in 2012. Professor Yuan was presented with the Teaching Achievement Award by the Ministry of Education, Chinese National Book Prize, Outstanding Prize of Beijing Social and Scientific Works, Beijing Outstanding Teacher Award, and the First Cai Yuanpei Award of Peking University.
An expert in geodesy and surveying engineering, Professor Liu Jingnan conducts research in geodetic theories and applications including national coordinate system establishment and GNSS technology and software development. Under his leadership, the Comprehensive Software on GPS Satellite Positioning Data Processing and other significant projects have been accomplished. He received twice the National Science and Technology Progress Award, several provincial Science and Technology Progress Awards and the First-class Teaching Award of the Ministry of Education. To date, he has published more than 150 academic papers and has been the supervisor of more than 140 postgraduates.
Professor Zhong Wanxie has long been engaged in engineering and computational mechanics. He applied the group representation theory to the symmetric structural analysis, which has been used for television tower and water tank series design. He proposed the parametric variational principle in combination with the corresponding parametric quadratic programming method, with which a number of soil mechanics problems, elastic-plastic, frictional contact, lubrication non-linear problems were solved. In recent years, he proposed the analogy between analytical dynamics and analytical structural mechanics based on the symplectic mathematics. The many awards received by Professor Zhong include the Science and Technology Progress Award of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation, the Second-class National Natural Science Award, and the Lifetime Achievement Award of the International Computational Conferences for Engineering and Sciences.
 
