
[date]2011.06.09[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage Fashion Show 2011[/title]
Twenty-four graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at the PolyU Fashion Show 2011 held today (9 June) at Hotel InterContinental Hong Kong. The graduates are either from the Bachelor of Arts (Hons) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles or the Higher Diploma Scheme in Fashion and Textile Studies.
The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order):
Mr Mark Baumann, Visual Director, Lane Crawford (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Ms Irene Chan, Fashion Editor, Milk X Monthly Magazine
Mr Silvio Chan, Creative Director, Alternatif Fashion Workshop
Ms Lu Lu Cheung, Creative Director, Rolls Group Ltd.
Mr Joseph Chow, Editor-in-chief, ELLE     
Mr Boon Ho, Vice President of Sales, Global Sourcing Regions, Retail Branding and  Information Solutions, Avery Dennison Hong Kong B.V.
Ms Johanna Ho, Creative Director, I Limited
Ms Ning Lau, Head of Marketing &amp; Communications, JOYCE 
Mr Walter Ma, Vice-Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the fashion show, the students also competed for the following prizes:
Overall Grand Awards - Winner, First Runner-up &amp; Second Runner-up
Most Promising Young Talent Awards sponsored by Lane Crawford (Hong Kong) Ltd. 
SAGA Travelling Scholarship sponsored by Saga Furs of Scandinavia
Design Excellence Award sponsored by Tungtex (Holdings) Company Limited
Best Use of Synthetic Leather Award sponsored by LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited 
The Best Eyewear Accessorised Collection sponsored by LensCrafters
Outstanding Menswear Award sponsored by Esquel Group 
The Best Innovation Award sponsored by LAMPO ZIPPER by Ditta Giovanni Lanfranchi  SpA (Italy)
Australia Study Tour Scholarship sponsored by Flinders Merino 
Best Use of Australian Merino Award sponsored by Australian Wool Innovation Limited 
Best Marketability Award sponsored by MOISELLE International Holdings Ltd. 
The Best Application of Technology Award sponsored by Lectra  
Best Use of Colour Award sponsored by KINJI COMPANY LIMITED
Best Accessorised Collection Award sponsored by Rich Truth Limited 
Creativity Award sponsored by Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
 
