
[date]2011.06.01[/date]
[title]International Forum on China Hotel Brand Development takes place at Hotel ICON[/title]
Organized and hosted by the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Fourth International Forum on China Hotel Brand Development was kicked off today (1 June) at PolyU's teaching and research hotel, Hotel ICON. This unique forum was pioneered by the SHTM in 2007 and it is the first time that it takes place in the vibrant city of Hong Kong.
The forum was founded in response to the fast expanding opportunities in the hospitality industry in China. Being the only annual forum exclusively focusing on the development of hotel brands in the country, it has been successful in providing an interactive platform for industry practitioners and academics to share experience and exchange views. This year's forum takes the theme "New Vision, New Market and Brand Innovation".
"I am pleased to note that, due to our location and history, our School is uniquely positioned to play a leading role in facilitating the development of China's hospitality industry," said Professor Kaye Chon, Dean and Chair Professor of SHTM. "We see hosting the forum as one way to engage our industry partners, researchers and academics to collaborate closely in enhancing the international competitiveness of hotel brands in China."
SHTM is delighted to receive the usual strong support from K. Wah Group being the title sponsor of the forum. It is also supported by China Tourist Hotels Association, Hong Kong Hotels Association, The Federation of Hong Kong Hotel Owners and Institute of Hospitality.
Some of the key topics featured at the forum include:
Views from the top leaders of the hotel industry in the region
Mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau's hotel markets outlook in 2011 and beyond
Hotel brand development and management in the new competitive market environment
Brand innovation: Integrating different perspectives and different approaches
Branding experience and strategic plans of leading international and domestic brands in China
Investing in brands: Finding the 'best' brand for your hotel
Developing future leadership for the hotel industry of tomorrow
Experts in the hospitality industry will share their views in the forum, just to name a few: 
Dr Che-woo Lui, Chairman of The Federation of Hong Kong Hotel Owners and Chairman of K. Wah Group
Mr Xu Jinzhi, Vice Chairman, China Tourist Hotels Association
Mr James Lu, Executive Director, Hong Kong Hotels Association
Mr Paul Foskey, Executive Vice President, International Hotel Development, Marriott International
Mr Stephen Ho, Senior Vice President, Acquisitions and Development, Starwood Asia Pacific Hotels and Resorts
Mr Nong Xia, Senior Vice President, Real Estate and Development, Hyatt Hotels Corporation
Mr Romain Chan, Group General Manager, Miramar Hotel and Investment Co., Ltd.
Mr Paul Walters, Vice President ' Brands, Langham Hospitality Group
Mr Frankie Chan, Vice President ' Development (Greater China), Regal Hotels International
Ms Alison Yau, Director of Business Development, Rhombus International Hotels Group Inc.
Ms Katherine Wong, General Manager, Prince Hotel
China has become one of the most visited destinations in the world. Recent statistics from the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) estimated that China would attract 130 million inbound tourists in 2020, with an average growth rate of 7.8 per cent from now until 2020.
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 60 academic staff drawing from 18 countries, the School offers programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. It was awarded the 2003 International Society of Travel and Tourism Educators Institutional Achievement Award in recognition of its significant contribution to tourism education, and is designated by UNWTO as one of its global Education and Training Centres.
 
