
[date]2011.07.07[/date]
[title]PolyU Engineering summer camp promotes green living[/title]
About 300 secondary four to six students from 13 secondary schools took part in a three-day summer camp organized by the Faculty of Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 5 to 7 July.
Themed "Engineering Goes Green, Brings a Better Life", the camp sought to enhance participants' understanding of various engineering disciplines and professions, as well as to develop their communication and leadership skills. Students could also get a taste of university life by staying in the Students Halls of Residence.
Faculty of Engineering Acting Dean Professor Charles Surya said, "In today's knowledge-based economy, we believe that innovation is the key for our future. In view of that, the camp consists of a wide range of activities which aims at promoting students' learning of engineering knowledge and stimulating their imagination and creativity. Moreover, students can gain better insights on their planning for future studies and careers."
During the camp, students have to work on a variety of innovative projects and selected works would be showcased at the closing ceremony held today (7 July). These included wearable computing and robotics, environmentally friendly CD player, 3D object modelling and animation, electric motor, energy saving light, logistics simulation and solar amphibious vehicle.
The participants were given a chance to interact with renowned business leaders, senior engineers, alumni and faculty members by joining the High Table Dinner. The dinner was graced by the presence of Mr Franklin So, Managing Director of Agilent Technologies and Founding Sponsor of the summer camp.
In addition, the Faculty has arranged field visits to leading corporations in town, namely Agilent Technologies Hong Kong Limited, Asia Satellite Telecommunications HK Limited, Drainage Services Department, Electrical and Mechanical Services Department and Hong Kong Observatory, Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Co Ltd, Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute, Hong Kong Productivity Council, Microsoft Corporation, MTR Corporation, Office of the Telecommunications Authority and Tech Universe of Hong Kong Science Park.
This is the fifth year the Faculty of Engineering organized summer camp for secondary school students and teachers. Since its launch in 2007, the camp has been warmly received by participating schools and students.
