
[date]2012.01.20[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion talents present creative works in Knitwear Symphony 2012[/title]
Dr Judyanna Ng, Senior Lecturer of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), displayed her innovative design in an extraordinary and glamorous knitwear fashion show in Hong Kong "Knitwear Symphony 2012" staged on 18 January at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
Organized by the Knitwear Innovation and Design Society, the event aimed to showcase Hong Kong designers' talents and capabilities and to reinforce the city's position as the world's leading knitwear sourcing centre. It featured the latest knitwear collections of Dr Judyanna Ng and two other world renowned designers, Ms Johanna Ho and Mr Manix Wong, and three ITC graduates, who are representing their company.
More than 1,500 local and overseas fashion experts and representatives from the industry were drawn to the event.
About Dr Judyanna Ng and her collection Dr Ng's research and design interest is in the relationship between fashion and social/cultural context, fashion and knitwear design, as well as embroidery and accessories design. She obtained her Master's degree in Fashion from Domus Academy in Milan and PhD from PolyU in 2004. Dr Ng has been invited to present her collection in the Knitwear Symphony for three consecutive years since 2009. In 2010, her collection was showcased in the 16th SpinExpo Shanghai and the 2nd SpinExpo New York. Dr Ng is currently the coordinator of the new specialism in Knitwear Design with Technology under PolyU's bachelor degree programme in fashion and textiles.
Dr Ng's new knitwear collection is a good blend of Orientalism and advanced technology. Inspired by the Japanese art of flower arrangement "Ikebana", this knitwear collection transforms age-old traditions to a neo aesthetic extremity. Inspirations from conventional kimono (traditional Japanese clothing) are reconstructed to form a 3-D knitted garment with the application of revolutionary WHOLEGARMENTTM technology. This collection is made of extra fine merino wool with new proportions and attention to detail. A final touch of neo Lurex yarn on each piece highlights the collection and presents a new interpretation of luxury.
Through the latest digital printing process, Japanese floral drawings are synchronized with organic patterns to create layering abstract visual. These complicated patterns and silhouette are expressed by the latest digital printing machine and seamless knitting machine from Shima Seiki (Hong Kong) Ltd., whereas the gloves and socks are knitted by their mini accessory knitting machine.
About Ms Cass Chow and her collection "Nouveau Couture"
Ms Cass Chow graduated from ITC's Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textile (Knitwear Design with Technology Specialism) in 2010. She is currently working in Chemtax Industrial Company Limited as Junior Designer.
The evening knitwear collection was inspired by Art Nouveau. Nature elements like birds and flowers are applied as design elements. All of the pieces are knitted with STOLL machines to emphasize the functions and features of different machine models. The designer hopes that this collection could bring about a new inspiration to the industry on how advance knitting technology could be combined with high-end luxury knitwear.
About Kay Chan, Charlotte Ma and their collection "Double Born"
Ms Kay Chan and Ms Charlotte Ma graduated from ITC's Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textile (Knitwear Design with Technology Specialism) in 2010. They are currently working in Shima Seiki (Hong Kong) Ltd. as Designer.
"Double Born" is a combination of double bond in chemistry and children born. The energetic characteristics of double bond imply the vivacity of children. WHOLEGARMENTTM technology and digital printing were applied on this 3-D seamless collection. Seamless accessories such as hats, dolls and gloves were presented. Stunning printing images with new techniques feature a new concept in kids' wear.  
