
[date]2012.04.16[/date]
[title]PolyU launches 2012 Chinese Mainland Rural Community Service Programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and YouChange China Social Entrepreneur Foundation (YouChange) have jointly launched the Hong Kong Youth Chinese Mainland Rural Community Service Programme. The three-year programme aims at enriching PolyU students' service-learning experience and cultivating their sense of social responsibility.
The 2012 programme is also generously supported by the Agricultural Bank of China and will cover five service trips to the rural villages of Chongqing, Inner Mongolia, Yunnan and Sichuan. About 200 PolyU students will be recruited and are expected to provide services like designing routes for eco-tourism, voluntary teaching, health service and day nursery for young children.
Witnessed by Mr Patrick Nip, Director of Social Welfare, Social Welfare Department of the HKSAR Government, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for this new initiative was signed today (16 April) on the PolyU campus by Dr Tang Min, Executive Vice Chairman of YouChange China Social Entrepreneur Foundation and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Angelina Yuen said, 'Committed to providing a holistic education, PolyU encourages students to actively participate in community service. With the launch of the Chinese Mainland Rural Community Service Programme, our students can learn more about China's rural and agricultural development, reflect on their service-learning experience, put theory with practice and develop a greater sense of social and national social responsibility.'
Dr Tang Min also announced the establishment of 'YouChange Social Enterprise Investment Fund' with PolyU on the occasion. The Fund aims to put students' proposed plans into action after their service trips, hoping to develop their entrepreneurial and innovative spirit.
To further promote the spirit of serving the community through the application of professional knowledge and skills, PolyU will introduce a credit-bearing 'service learning' requirement in the new four-year curriculum starting September 2012. It is anticipated that when the service-learning structure is implemented on full scale, PolyU will have around 3,000 students participating in some 70 projects per year.
 
