
[date]2012.02.29[/date]
[title]PolyU presents Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards[/title]
A total of twelve winners of the 2012 Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards have been presented with the coveted prizes by the Honourable Mr Jasper Tsang Yok-sing, President of the Legislative Council, HKSAR; Ms Yin Xiaojing, Deputy Director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the HKSAR; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) at a gala dinner held on 28 February 2012. This event is also a major activity of PolyU 75th anniversary celebrations.
First launched in 1997, the Bauhinia Cup is organized by PolyU with an aim to accord public recognition to outstanding entrepreneurs from the private sector on the Chinese mainland who have made significant contributions to business and industry and in the course of technological and social development. It also provides a valuable opportunity for entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and the mainland to exchange their experiences and explore further business opportunities. Over the past 15 years, the Bauhinia Cup Awards scheme has honoured a total of 129 outstanding entrepreneurs. Among the awardees are Dr Lu Guanqiu, Chairman of the Board of Wanxiang Group; Mr Liu Yonghao, Chairman of the New Hope Group; Mr Wang Chuanfu, Chairman of BYD Auto, to name but a few.
This year, the awardees' scope of businesses encompasses environmental technology, medical and pharmaceutical products, biotechnology, personal hygiene products, food and beverages, intelligent building, etc. (Please refer to the Appendix for the full list of awardees).
Speaking at the gala dinner, Professor Tong said, "With their distinct acumen and innovative ideas, the awardees have led their companies to go from strength to strength, thus contributing to the economic development of our nation. They are also mindful of corporate social responsibility and the importance of building a harmonious society. This spirit of entrepreneurship is also required for university students". He also thanked the co-organizers and mainland partners for their continuous support over the past 15 years.
Under the awards scheme, the portfolio of each candidate is assessed objectively by a Selection Committee comprising prominent community leaders and distinguished entrepreneurs from the mainland and Hong Kong. Nominations for the awards were invited from across the country. In the result announcement held in Beijing on 27 February, the awardees met with Mr Chen Changzhi, Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and Chairman of China Democratic National Construction Association, and Mr Chu Ping, Vice Chairman of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce. The awardees also attended a discussion forum hosted by PolyU during their stay in Hong Kong and met with local industry and business leaders. The Forum comprised two sessions respectively on the themes of "Technology Innovation and Corporate Sustainable Development" and "Management Innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility".
This year, Professor Cheng Siwei, former Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, serves as Consultant of the scheme. Other members of the Presidium include Mr Chu Ping, Vice Chairman of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce; Mr Duan Yongji, Executive Chairman of the Board of China Non-Governmental Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association; Mr Preston Chen, Executive Chairman of the Federation of Industries (Taiwan); Professor Roy Chung, Chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Mr Irons Sze, President of the Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Dr Jonathan Choi, Chairman of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce; Mr Anthony Wu Ting-yuk, Chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce; Mr Wang Shuifu, Executive Chairman of the Board of Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association; and PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. Serving as Co-Chairmen of the Organizing Committee are Dr Henry Tseng Chee, Managing Director of Kingtronics Holdings (HK) Limited; and Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
This major event is also supported by major business organizations in both Hong Kong and the mainland. Co-organizers include the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce, China Non-Governmental Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Association, Federation of Industries (Taiwan), Federation of Hong Kong Industries, The Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association.
The recipients of this award are invited to join the Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Association, which was established in 2002 with an aim to serve as a network for entrepreneurs and help promote the continuous economic development of the country.
