
[date]2011.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU Knowledge Management Research Centre introduces Knowledge Enterprise Award across the border[/title]
In a bid to promote the best practices of knowledge management, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has introduced through its Knowledge Management Research Centre (KMRC) the Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award to the Chinese mainland.
The award scheme has won the support of senior officials. Mr Cheng Lu, Member of the National Committee of Chinese People' Political Consultative Conference, Mr Xie Weimin, Counsel-Director of the Department of Policy, Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, and Mr Liu Honglu, Director of Liaison Department, All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce, officiated at the ceremony held in Beijing on 25 November.
The three organizations which were honoured on the Chinese mainland were namely China Merchants Bank Direct Banking Center, NetDragon Websoft Inc and Siemens Limited China. They together with Arup of Hong Kong were awarded the Asian MAKE winners. Other winners included Baoshan Iron &amp; Steel Co. Ltd., Tsingtao Brewery Co. Ltd, Ernst &amp; Young, Hong Kong, MTR Co. Ltd, Cafe de Coral Holdings Ltd, and The Kowloon Motor Bus Co. (1933) Ltd., to name but a few.On Hong Kong side, another award presentation ceremony was held in early November. Officiating at the Hong Kong MAKE Award presentation ceremony were Dr Samson Tam Wai-ho, Legislative Councillor and Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Vice President (International Affairs and Executive Education). Professor Tsui was pleased to note that the MAKE Award has been extended to the Chinese mainland, signifying a closer collaboration and development of PolyU in the Pearl River Delta and beyond.Each ceremony was followed by a Knowledge Management (KM) Forum where MAKE award winners shared their success stories on how they cultivate and utilize the knowledge and intangibles of their staff members and stakeholders for the creation of new products and services as well as how to enhance their performance through concerted effort of their employees.Both events in Hong Kong and Beijing have come to a fruitful close with over 250 participants coming from various sectors. With years of effort in promoting KM in Hong Kong and Chinese mainland, KMRC helps to bring local and mainland organizations be listed alongside with world renowned organizations and raise their level of KM practices to an international standard.The MAKE award is an international benchmark of best practice in knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by London KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management, and introduced to Hong Kong by PolyU in 2008. It aims to provide public recognition for companies and organizations with outstanding performance in the practice of knowledge management at the global, regional and national level.
