
[date]2011.12.28[/date]
[title]8th International Shibori Symposium kicks off on PolyU campus[/title]
More than 200 delegates from around the world are gathering in Hong Kong from now to 2 January 2012 to attend the 8th International Shibori Symposium (8ISS), which is jointly organised by the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the World Shibori Network (WSN) and Hong Kong Design Institute, and sponsored by Foshan Municipal Bureau of Culture, Radio, Film, TV, Press and Publication.
Themed "Technology Shaped by Creativity", the six-day symposium was officially opened today (28 December) on the PolyU campus by Ms Yoshiko I. Wada, President of World Shibori Network; Mr Dongtao Xu, General Director of Foshan Municipal Bureau of Culture, Radio, Film, TV, Press and Publication; and Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President.
"Each ISS has provided a unique opportunity for artists, artisans, designers and scholars to exchange ideas and discuss traditional textile practices — preserving tradition while also promoting new developments and contemporary adaptations. Through ISS we have built relationships leading to future collaborations," said 8ISS co-chairs Yoshiko I. Wada and Dr Kinor Jiang, Associate Professor of PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing.
The opening ceremony was followed by a plenary session where leading academics, designers and industry practitioners were invited to deliver keynote addresses. They will share their views and experience in the specialism of traditional and modern textiles, fashion and accessories; clothing science and culture; textile material and technology; dyeing and finishing; textile design, fashion design, and wearable art; functional and technical textiles; intelligent textile and clothing; digital technologies and green textiles; sustainable fashion and textiles.
The keynote speakers included Ms Rta Kapur Chishti, Founder of Ananda Delhi Textile Developments Pvt. Ltd.; Mr Michel Garcia, Founder of Assoc. Couleur Garance in Lauris, France; Mr Jack Lenor Larsen, Founder of LongHouse Reserve, U.S.; Ms Makiko Minagawa, Textile Director of Issey Miyake Design Studio, Japan; Professor Feng Zhao, Director, China National Silk Museum, Hangzhou; and Professor Xiao-ming Tao, Chair Professor of Textile Technology, PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing.
In addition, exhibitions of international and Chinese art in fashion and textile, workshops, demonstrations, poster sessions, pre- and post-tours to the Chinese mainland, and local excursion opportunities have been arranged for the participants. For more details and programme of 8ISS, please visit its official website at URL: http://8iss.wordpress.com/
WSN is a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to preserving and celebrating centuries old resist dye traditions and similar techniques across the globe by promoting knowledge and fostering culturally enriched environments.
