
[date]2012.01.10[/date]
[title]PolyU raises over $2M on the green[/title]
More than 50 golf teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, alumni and friends of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have rendered support to "PolyU 75th Anniversary UBS Invitational Golf Tournament" held last Friday (6 January) at Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan. The fun-filled event has raised over $2 million for the long-term development of the University.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong thanked all parties involved for making the event a success. He said, "The tournament, now in its ninth year, has not only kicked off the year-long celebratory activities for our 75th Anniversary, but also brought the University's friends and alumni together to go beyond just having a friendly match by supporting PolyU's vision in nurturing professionals for the community and the country. We are most privileged to enjoy the tremendous support from various sectors of the society in realizing our vision."
After a round of golf, the "Alumni Cup", "Industrial &amp; Business Cup" and "Elite Cup" awards went to PolyU Doctor of Management Class (Team 2), Golf 18 Club Limited and East Asia Holdings Limited respectively. Individual awards: the Best Gross Championship of Men's Individual went to Mr T. W. Wong (Duval course) and Mr M. C. Tsang (Leadbetter course) respectively.
This year, UBS AG was the title sponsor of the event. The tournament was organised by a Committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Peter Lau, Managing Director of Joyas International Holdings Limited. Other members of the Organising Committee included Convener Dr Dennis Ng, Managing Director of Polaris Jewellery Manufacturing Limited; four Honorary Chairmen Mr Lee Yuen-fat, Chairman of Ka Shui International Holdings Limited; Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of GEW Holdings Limited and Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; Dr Edward Chan, Managing Director of German Pool (Hong Kong) Limited; and Mr Anthony Leung, Managing Director of Continental Conair Limited.
Apart from raising funds for the University, the event helps to promote friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters. The net proceeds will be used to strengthen the University's teaching and learning facilities and to support the nurturing of professional talents for society.
