
[date]2012.04.20[/date]
[title]PolyU students present green kitchenware products at Hong Kong Houseware Fair[/title]
A wide range of kitchenware products designed by engineering students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) with industrial support are now showcased at the Hong Kong Houseware Fair, which is held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from now until 23 April 2012.
These innovative kitchenware products are all designed by PolyU students under the KitchenGala project, a unique industry-university project of the University and King's Flair Development Limited. The booth was opened today (20 April) by Mr Alex Wong, Managing Director of King's Flair Development Limited; Mr Johnson Ng, Senior Exhibitions Manager of Hong Kong Trade Development Council; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
According to Professor Alan Lau, Project Coordinator of the University's Department of Mechanical Engineering, the KitchenGala project aims to nurture students' creativity in product design and development with due consideration for environmental protection. This year, PolyU students have unleashed their talents in designing the following innovative kitchenware products: I.Dry, FounCo, Bambread, Warmish, DipDish, Jalent pot, Air Ring, Wine Saber and X-celerator.
"This innovative project is a shining example of our 'Outcome-based' Education programme," said Professor Lau. Apart from showcasing what they have learned on product design and development, the Hong Kong Houseware Fair also provides an arena for students to hone their skills in marketing products to potential buyers from all around the world.
It is hoped that the KitchenGala project will set a model to encourage further collaboration between the industry and PolyU in grooming practical dreamers of tomorrow to better serve the needs of the market and the society. "This is a win-win situation and we hope that our graduates can help the development of the industry in the long run," Professor Lau added.
This three-year project sponsored by King's Flair Development Limited was launched in 2010. It aims at encouraging more students to put their engineering design knowledge into real product design and development. Participating students are required to complete this project from creating their own design concept to fabrication of prototype. Not only their designs have to be functional, but marketability is also an important concern. Under this project, a series of technical visits and seminars have been organized. Meetings with different industrialists are also arranged for participating students to explore their ideas and prototype fabrication. For more information about these KitchenGala products, please visit the Booth (1D-C23) in Hall of Elegance of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
