
[date]2011.12.07[/date]
[title]PolyU to confer University Fellowship on six distinguished personalities[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer the title of University Fellowship on six outstanding individuals in recognition of their significant contributions to the University and the community.
The ceremony will be presided over by the Honourable Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Chairman of the University Council. It will be held at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus on 5 January 2012 (Thursday). The fellowship recipients are (in alphabetical order of last name):
Dr Aron HarilelaCurrently Director of Harilela Hotels Ltd, Dr Harilela is well known not only for his achievements in the commercial sector, but also for his keen support for the community. PolyU is one of the tertiary institutions which has benefited from Dr Harilela's generosity. In 2011, the Harilela family supported PolyU in the establishment of a scholarship in the School of Hotel and Tourism Management for nurturing talents for the hospitality industry.
Dr Simon Kwok Siu Ming, BBS, JPDr Simon Kwok is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sa Sa International Holdings Limited, a listed global cosmetics retailing empire he has built over the past three decades. Dr Kwok is a life member of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Development Foundation and has supported various fund-raising drives of PolyU.
Miss Cally Kwong Mei WanFamous artist Miss Cally Kwong is now Managing Director of Cally K Jewellery Limited. Despite her busy schedule, she is committed to philanthropic work, particularly in the area of education. She has generously supported the development of PolyU by taking up the chairmanship of Charity Dinners in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and participating in various fund-raising activities.
Mr Edwin Leong Siu HungMr Edwin Leong, Executive Chairman and Founder of Tai Hung Fai Enterprise Company Limited, is a successful entrepreneur with a warm heart. He has a firm commitment to the well-being of the elderly. Through the Tai Hung Fai Charity Foundation, he supported the establishment the PolyU-Henry G Leong Mobile Integrative Health Centre to provide free health checks and monitoring for needy elderly.
Ir Mak Chai Kwong, GBS, JPA civil engineer by profession, Mr Mak was the former Permanent Secretary for Development (Works) and was instrumental in the development of many major infrastructural projects in Hong Kong. He retired from the government in 2010 after 37 years of loyal service. He has spared no effort in serving the university community and served as the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Civil and Structural Engineering at PolyU between 2008 and 2011.
Mr So Chung PingMr So Chung-ping is currently Chairman of the Executive Committee of The Tsim Sha Tsui District Kai Fong Welfare Association. A highly-respected community leader, Mr So has devoted himself to serving the local community for more than 40 years, with genuine concern for education and elderly service. The Association, to which he belongs, supports PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences in nurturing social work students and arranging overseas exchange for the purpose of whole-person education.
Since its introduction in 2000, PolyU has conferred University Fellowship on a total of 63 distinguished personalities.
