
[date]2012.03.02[/date]
[title]PolyU's Centre for Leadership and Innovation hosts Inaugural Conference[/title]
The Centre for Leadership and Innovation (CLI) at the Department of Management and Marketing held the CLI Inaugural Conference: Leading Change and Innovation at Hotel ICON today (2 March) in celebration of the official opening of CLI and the 75th anniversary of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). More than 120 world-class scholars, researchers, industry representatives and business executives from various sectors attended the conference.
Themed "Leading Change and Innovation", the conference brought together prominent scholars and renowned business leaders from around the world to share cutting edge knowledge and experiences on improving leadership effectiveness, enhancing firm innovation and facilitating successful organization change.
"Innovation is recognized by most executives to be one of the major drivers of growth for their companies and organization. Success for an organization depends greatly on its ability to embrace new ideas, improve existing process, and invent new strategies in response to arising opportunities," said Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business, during his opening remarks at the conference.
"While more and more companies are focusing intensively on innovation, however, only a very few of them can see any actual result from the effort. Successful strategic innovation needs more than just a great idea. We need to have effective leaders to implement the vision and drive innovation within the organization," he added.
Professor Edwin A. Locke from the University of Maryland gave a presentation on "Leadership for Change", through which he tackled the questions about what leaders have to do to implement their visions and to lead change within the organization. Professor Locke is the Dean's Professor (Emeritus) of Leadership and Motivation at the R.H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland. He is also the winner of the Lifetime Achievement Award from the OB division of the Academy of Management. 
From Technion ' Israel Institute of Technology, Professor Miriam Erez is one of the most cited authors in the field of management and a pioneer in introducing cross-cultural research into the field of organizational behaviour. During her keynote presentation, she pointed out that a team should not be composed only of the creative talents who are good at idea generation. In order to enhance team innovation, it needs to include the conservative, cautious and detail-oriented kind of people who are good at implementing the ideas. 
Also at the conference, Professor Susan Taylor, Co-Director of the Center for Leadership, Innovation and Technology (CLIC) at the University of Maryland, made a keynote presentation on creating successful organizational transformation, followed by Professor Paul Tesluk from University at Buffalo who demonstrated how transformational leaders facilitate employee engagement in change through both rational and emotion pathways.
Dr Peter Lau, Chairman and Chief Executive of Giordano International Limited, delivered a keynote speech on "Leadership in the Age of Globalization" during the conference luncheon, adding an invaluable practitioner dimension to the conference discussion.
The afternoon sessions of the conference included concurrent panel dialogues and workshops, during which participants had the opportunities to exchange ideas with leadership and innovation experts from both academic and business sectors. The conference organizers were honoured to have top-tier scholars and industry leaders from Hong Kong, United States, United Kingdom, Israel and Singapore to join the discussion panels.
The conference concluded with two concurrent workshops that summarize the participant learning experience with interactive exercises and discussions. During the "Experiential Workshop for Enhancing team Innovation" conducted by Professor Miriam Erez, business executives, researchers and students received personal feedback on their cognitive styles which are relevant on innovation. They also had a great deal of fun building the innovation tower with foam balls and wooden sticks, an exercise designed to give participants hands-on practice with the process of team idea generation and implementation.
About the Centre for Leadership and Innovation (CLI)
The Centre for Leadership and Innovation (CLI) draws on the diverse skills and experience of our academic staff in the leadership and entrepreneurship/strategic management areas. It interacts with the business and academic communities, locally, regionally and internationally, aiming to provide an integrated approach to the advancement of research, teaching and consulting in leadership and enterprise development. It is committed to developing successful and ethical leaders, capable of envisioning, aligning and inspiring people to engage in change initiatives that will create better futures for organizations and their stakeholders in a dynamic and ever-changing world.
Our mission is to establish a leading centre in the Asia Pacific Region in the areas of leadership and innovation. We are achieving our mission through collaborating globally with researchers and business people, advancing knowledge and promoting evidence-based practices in leadership and innovation.
The Co-Directors of CLI are Professor Cynthia Lee, Chair Professor of Management, and Dr Warren Chiu, Associate Professor and Associate Head, Department of Management and Marketing in the Faculty of Business at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
