
[date]2012.01.30[/date]
[title]High achiever shares learning experience with top scorers of Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition[/title]
Jointly organized by the Department of Applied Mathematics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and secondary schools from 18 districts in Hong Kong, the territory-wide Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition (JPSMC) 2011 has come to a fruitful close. The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held today (30 January) at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus.Officiating at the Ceremony were Professor Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development); Professor Qi Li-qun, Head of PolyU's Department of Applied Mathematics; Professor C K Chan, Associate Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Applied Sciences and Textiles; Professor Benny Y. C. Hon, Department of Mathematics, City University of Hong Kong; Dr Allan Leung of Hong Kong Baptist University, Mr Ng Siu-kai, Chief Curriculum Development Officer, Education Bureau; and Mr T. W. Wan, Assistant General Manager of the Hong Kong Examination and Assessment Authority.At the ceremony, Secondary Six student at St. Paul's Co-educational College and HAC member Andy Loo shared his learning experience with the participants. He encouraged them to take part in various competitions to expand their subject knowledge, enhance critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Andy was awarded Medals in Australian Mathematics Competition in 2010 and 2011, Silver Medals in China Western Mathematical Olympiad in 2010 and 2011, and Silver and Gold Medals at International Physics Olympiad 2010 and 2011 respectively.This year, the Overall Champion of JPSMC went to Baptist (Sha Tin Wai) Lui Ming Choi Primary School and First Runner-up to St. Francis of Assisi's English Primary School. La Salle Primary School was the Second Runner-Up.The winning team of each district together with nine other teams with the highest scores in JPSMC 2011 would be invited to join HAC. The winners are also entitled to join the gifted programmes offered by PolyU during the Easter Holidays and summer vacation.JPSMC is the largest mathematics competition of its kind in Hong Kong, with more than 3,800 students from some 400 primary schools joining it every year. 
