
[date]2011.11.30[/date]
[title]PolyU Announces New Dean for Business School[/title]
Following an extensive international search, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University announces today (30 November) the appointment of Professor T C Edwin Cheng as Dean of the Faculty of Business, effective 1 December 2011.
Cheng has been a Chair Professor of Management since he joined the institution as a Department Head in 1992. Having served as a Faculty Dean in 1993 and a Vice President in 1995, he returned to the department to focus on teaching and research in 2000.
Cheng is ready to steer the Faculty through major changes and take up opportunities for development and improvement. "The 3-3-4 academic structure and the government's research funding based on merit, for instance, are stimuli for refining our curriculum and future direction of research. The economic restructuring of China opens up opportunities for participation and collaboration especially in the Pearl River Delta development." Cheng commented.
Cheng was awarded the Doctor of Science degree, a higher doctorate, by the University of Cambridge in 2007 for distinction in scientific research. He graduated from The University of Hong Kong in 1979 and obtained a master's degree from the University of Birmingham, UK in 1980. He completed his PhD at the University of Cambridge in 1984.
Cheng earned many accolades. Among them are the Rh Award for outstanding contribution to scholarship and research from the University of Manitoba, Canada, he won in 1989, the Outstanding Young Engineer of the Year Award from the Institute of Industrial Engineers, USA, he won in 1992, the Croucher Award (Croucher Senior Research Fellowship) from the Croucher Foundation, Hong Kong, he won in 2001, and the Bronze Medal his team received at the 38th International Exhibition of Inventions, Geneva in 2010 for their project "Intelligent context-aware decision support system for monitoring of container terminal operations".
Cheng's teaching, research and consultancy interests range from e-business and e-commerce through information systems management, innovation and technology management, operations management, quality management to scheduling and supply chain management.
During his early years of teaching, Cheng taught at the National University of Singapore, The Chinese University of Hong Kong and the University of Manitoba, Canada. In recent years, he has enhanced his contribution to education in the Greater China region. Cheng's current positions include Chang Jiang Scholars Chair Professor at the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, PRC, Siyuan Chair Professor at Nanjing University, PRC and Honorary Chair Professor at the National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.
Cheng has co-authored ten books published by Chapman &amp; Hall, McGraw-Hill, Springer and other publishers. He has published over 500 research papers in journals including the California Management Review, Journal of Management Information Systems, Management Science, MIS Quarterly, Operations Research and Organization Science. For half a century from 1959 to 2008, he was the most productive production/operations management researcher in the world (International Journal of Production Economics 2009).
The Faculty of BusinessPolyU's Faculty of Business is one of the largest business schools in the region with 220 academics, 5,100 students and 31,000 alumni. It holds Triple Accreditation from AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business), EQUIS (European Quality Improvement System) and AMBA (Association of MBAs).
The Faculty and its constituent units, including the first Graduate School of Business established in Hong Kong, offer a full range of academic programmes, many of which are recognized by professional bodies in the fields of accounting, finance, logistics, management, marketing and transport. Apart from the BBA (seven awards), MBA, EMBA, DBA and specialized master's degrees, there are also research programmes leading to the MPhil and PhD awards.
To further the mission of knowledge and technology transfer, faculty members conduct application-oriented research, both within and across their disciplines. The Faculty's research has been ranked 61st in the world, 3rd in Asia and 2nd in Hong Kong (The UTD Top 100 World Rankings of Business Schools based on Research Contribution 2006-2010).
