
[date]2012.04.17[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Tang Ping Yuan Square naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a square in the hub of its campus to pay tribute to the late Dr Tang Ping-yuan and his son Dr Jack Tang Chi-chien for their long-standing support to the Institution over the past four decades.
At a special ceremony held on the university campus today (17 April), Dr Jack Tang Chi-chien, Chairman Emeritus of Tristate Holdings Limited, unveiled the commemorative plaque in the company of the Honourable Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Chairman of PolyU Council, and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
On behalf of the University, Ms Yang expressed profound gratitude to Dr Jack Tang and his family for their immense contributions to the Institution. She said, 'The support and guidance given by members of the Tang's family have played a key role in the development of PolyU over the years. We look forward to having their continued support in the years ahead.'
In his vote of thanks, Professor Tong remarked, 'Today's naming ceremony carries a very special meaning as it is an important part of PolyU 75th anniversary celebration. It represents a tribute to Dr Tang Ping-yuan and the Tang's family at a time when PolyU marks a significant milestone in its long and unique history.'
The late Dr Tang Ping-yuan was the first Chairman of the Polytechnic Planning Committee during the period of 1969 to 1971. Under his chairmanship, the committee studied the possibility of establishing a polytechnic in Hong Kong. In spite of the untimely death of Dr Tang senior in 1971, the recommendation of upgrading the Hong Kong Technical College to a polytechnic status was later accepted by the Government in July 1971. This led to the establishment of the Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1972. The Institution subsequently acquired university status in 1994.
Dr Jack Tang followed the footsteps of his father in supporting the Institution by serving as a Founding Member of the Council between 1972 and 1976 and of the University Court from 1995 to 2002.
Conveniently located near the main entrance of the PolyU campus, Tang Ping Yuan Square boasts net floor area of around 900 square metres.
