
[date]2012.01.08[/date]
[title]PolyU names Intensive Care Laboratory after the late Ms Dorothy Wong[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) yesterday (7 January) named the Intensive Care Laboratory of its School of Nursing after the late nurse Ms Dorothy Wong in recognition of her ardent support and generous donation of $2 million to the University.
A commemorative plaque was unveiled during the ceremony by Mr Arthur Au, executor to the estate of the late Ms Dorothy Wong; Ms Lydia Cheung, the then Nursing Director of the former Medical and Health Department; Ms Victoria Ng, a friend of Ms Wong; Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); Professor Maurice Yap, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Professor Samantha Pang, Head of PolyU's School of Nursing.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Angelina Yuen said, "The generous donation of Ms Dorothy Wong has provided our School of Nursing with new impetus to its future development. The naming of the Intensive Care Laboratory serves the dual purpose of expressing our gratitude to Ms Wong and encouraging our students to strive for continuous improvement in their career as health care professionals." Mr Arthur Au remarked, "The late Ms Dorothy Wong demonstrated a caring spirit through her generous donation to the Hong Kong community."
Ms Dorothy Wong was born on 26 May 1931. She registered as a general nurse in 1955 and worked in the then Medical and Health Department. She retired early in 1983 because of ill health.  As a faithful Catholic, she remained single and a filial daughter to her parents. She was lenient with others but strict with herself. During her 33 years of service, her caring attitude and competent performance were recognized by the Medical and Health Department. She passed away on 8 August 1989, with a wish to donate her money for charity in Hong Kong. Ms Wong had indeed set an excellent role model in the nursing profession.
The Dorothy Wong Intensive Care Laboratory simulates an Intensive Care Unit of a hospital. It is equipped with sophisticated electronic devices and a computer-controlled patient simulator. The simulator generates different physiological and patho-physiological conditions which in turn demand a real-time nursing intervention from learners. Students can practise advanced life support and intensive care nursing skills, which are useful and practical in nursing specialty service.
