
[date]2012.04.02[/date]
[title]PolyU's Business School ranks 60th in the world[/title]
The Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is ranked 60th in the world and 2nd in Hong Kong, according to the recently released UTD Top 100 World Rankings of Business Schools based on Research Contribution 2007-2011. The league table compiled by UTD (University of Texas at Dallas) has its basis on research contributions to 24 leading journals in major business disciplines.
Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business, is looking to integrate teaching, research and consultancy. With a solid foundation in all three areas and steady progress in recent years, he thinks now is a good time to further link up the three functions to realize knowledge transfer. "The value of our research lies in its capacity to inform students and to update the business and professional world. The ultimate goal is to enhance the community's competitiveness and improve people's quality of life," said Professor Cheng.
Apart from sharing research findings through journals, Professor Cheng said that the Faculty has been facilitating research in various ways. Preparation for the Sustainability Management Research Centre is under way. This centre, for serving industry needs, especially in the Pearl River Delta region, will initially examine green management, business ethics, and related topics. In December 2011, the Faculty also set up the Shipping Research Centre to address theoretical and practical issues cognate with shipping studies. It is a multi-disciplinary body with researchers and specialists in shipping and logistics management. Currently, the Faculty also runs a number of research/specialist centres in competition law, corporate governance, leadership and innovation, logistics, maritime studies, and retail marketing.
The Faculty of Business currently offers 18 taught postgraduate programmes in Hong Kong and six on the Chinese mainland, in addition to research degree programmes. Its Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)/Doctor of Management (DMgt), EMBA, and MBA programmes have been accredited by the UK-based AMBA (Association of MBAs).
For details of the UTD rankings, please visithttp://jindal.utdallas.edu/the-utd-top-100-business-school-research-rankings/worldwide-rankings/
For information on the Faculty of Business at PolyU, please visit www.fb.polyu.edu.hk/
