
[date]2012.01.16[/date]
[title]PolyU to promote intergenerational harmony through participating in Lunar New Year Fair[/title]
More than 40 young and elderly students of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be running a stall in the Lunar New Year Fair in the Victoria Park starting tomorrow (17 January).
According to Mrs Teresa Tsien, Co-Director PolyU's Institute of Active Ageing (IAA), the aim of participating in the fair is to promote intergenerational communication and interaction as well as to encourage the uses of ideas, resources, and opportunities in innovative ways. It also provides a unique opportunity for IAA students to continue to contribute their expertise to society.
A series of festive products such as handmade stocking flowers, hand warmers and stationeries will be sold in the stall to celebrate the lunar year of the dragon. Moreover, IAA students (aged 50 or above) will send their good wishes to visitors by giving away Chinese New Year couplets at the stall. All profits generated from the event will be contributed towards IAA scholarship in supporting the third age for pursuing lifelong learning.
The Institute is also grateful for the support of National Industrial and Commercial Credit Ltd., Eternal Power Ltd, Mr James Lee Chan Hung, Yummy Kitchen Co. Ltd., Banyan Elderly Services Association Limited, Sum-Wood Productions and Sam &amp; Company. In addition, Citibank Hong Kong has organized three training workshops covering the topics of Budgeting, Marketing and Customer Relationship Management for the participants.
The stall run by IAA is located at No. 33 and will be open from 17 January until the dawn of 23 January.
About PolyU's Institute of Active Ageing
The Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) is an inter-disciplinary centre that brings together expertise of 23 disciplines across the University's various faculties and schools, namely living environment, building design and engineering, business and finance, technology, health and rehabilitation, social policy, biochemistry and traditional Chinese medicine, textiles and clothing, and leisure and recreation.
IAA uses a cross-disciplinary approach to develop education, research and services to nurture manpower and produce evidence-based practices and applications that are essential for an age-friendly society. It also works closely with health care providers, private and public sectors, older adults and their families, and the general public to address issues related to the greying population.
