
[date]2012.01.28[/date]
[title]PolyU wins Most Supportive Group Award in Hong Kong Marathon again[/title]
With 3,600 students, staff, alumni and their family members and friends joining its running team, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set another new record for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2012, to be held on 5 February, by sending forth the largest single team for the international event for three consecutive years.
The Award Presentation Ceremony was held today (28 January) during the Marathon Expo at Victoria Park. Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President, fanned by PolyU staff and students, received the Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award on behalf of PolyU.
"We are delighted to see the number of PolyU participants surpassing all expectations. 2012 is the year we celebrate our 75th anniversary, we hope that the University's participation in this community-wide event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni. To make the participation more meaningful, this year's Marathon will also help raise funds for PolyU in supporting its sports development," said Mr Yang.
To help the participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, a series of informative training seminars and tailor-made practice sessions have been organized to equip them with the necessary knowledge about long-distance running before the Marathon.
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre and PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences also set up a booth at the Marathon Expo where visitors could receive free test and assessment in core stability, flexibility, running gait, body composition and kinesio taping. Moreover, practising physiotherapists and physiotherapy students will also be there to offer professional advice for visitors and Marathon runners.
The organizing committee of the PolyU Running Team also expressed sincere thanks to Nike, Bossini, Adidas, BodiHeat, Gatsby, Hung Fook Tong, My Beauty Diary, Novartis, Smiling Face and Sunkiller for their generous sponsorship for the team and the race.
PolyU formed its debut running squad for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon in 2009. In 2011, the number of participants registered for the PolyU running team soared to more than 3,300, forming the biggest participating team ever for the event.
