
[date]2012.02.29[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Symposium on Apparel for the Elderly and the Disabled with Special Needs[/title]
More than 100 social workers, occupational/rehabilitation therapists, medical/nursing personnel, researchers and clothing designers gathered at Hotel ICON on 26 February to attend the Symposium and Workshop on Apparel for the Elderly and the Disabled with Special Needs, organized by the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
According to the organizer, the Symposium aims at providing a platform for the public to explore the utilization of clothing in solving the living problems of the elderly and the disabled as well as improving their quality of life. This is also the first time such a symposium was held in Hong Kong.
The Symposium was officially opened by Professor Wong Kwok-yin, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles, and Professor Alfred Chan Cheung-ming, Chairman of the Elderly Commission.
Following the opening ceremony was a keynote session during which Professor P. C. Leung, Director of the Institute of Chinese Medicine of The Chinese University of Hong Kong; Dr Sandra Tsang Kit-man, Head of the Department of Social Work and Social Administration of The University of Hong Kong; Professor Cecilia W.P. Li-Tsang, Professor of PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre, were invited to share their views and experience with the participants.
A group discussion was also arranged during the workshop and topics discussed included the dressing problems of the elderly and the disabled; and the difficulties encountered in the promotion of care apparel and the strategies for future development.
Established in 2007, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia which promotes the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the elderly and the disabled. The Centre has brought together multi-disciplinary experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals.
