
[date]2012.05.08[/date]
[title]PolyU to hold Consultation Day for HKDSE and HKALE applicants[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will be holding a Consultation Day for applicants of its 2012/13 full-time UGC-funded degree and sub-degree programmes on campus from 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 12 May, Saturday. Those who are sitting for the first Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) Examination in 2012 and the last batch of applicants taking the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) are both welcome to join.
The Consultation Day will provide an excellent opportunity for Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS) applicants to obtain updated information on PolyU programmes. As applicants are allowed to reprioritize, delete and/or put in additional programme choices, this Consultation Day will help them finalize their decision before the JUPAS deadline. The deadline for submission of requests for changes in programme choices for HKALE and HKDSE applicants will be 21 May and 4 June respectively.
During the Consultation Day, various academic departments will offer consultation sessions, video shows, information seminars, exhibitions and guided visits. The event also includes an information seminar on "Strategy for Programme Selection", a special seminar on the calculation of admissions scores, scholarships for JUPAS admittees and the tactics for programme modification. Student Ambassadors of PolyU will also share their experiences on programme selection and admission interviews with JUPAS applicants, if applicable, on the spot. 
A special talk on "Tips for Admission Interview" which will be delivered by PolyU experienced professor will be conducted to help students make good preparation for their admission interviews and polish their interview skills.
Under the new four-year undergraduate degree curriculum, PolyU will adopt a flexible admission system which allows students to be admitted to its Broad Disciplines and gives them the flexibility to decide on a specific programme/scheme after the first year of study. HKDSE applicants may choose from PolyU's eight new Broad Disciplines Programmes on top of other choices. These Broad Disciplines are grouped by the category of Applied Sciences, Business, Computing, Construction and Environment, Engineering, Hotel and Tourism Management, Language, Culture and Communication, and Social Sciences.
In line with the objective of promoting all-round education, PolyU will continue to implement the "Sub-system for School Principal's Nominations" and "Outstanding Sportsmen Recommendation Scheme" for two batches of applicants this year. PolyU will also give special consideration to other HKALE and HKDSE students who have outstanding non-academic achievements.
To award students with outstanding academic or non-academic achievements, various scholarship schemes are available, for more details, please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/study/.
Further information on the Consultation Day can be found at the PolyU website: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/as/conday2012.
Notes to Editor
Members of the media are cordially invited to attend and cover the event. If typhoon signal no. 8 (or above) or rainstorm black warning is in force at 7:30 a.m. on the day, the event will be rescheduled to 19 May 2012 (Saturday).
