
[date]2012.02.21[/date]
[title]PolyU and HKPC jointly launch HK SME Business Sustainability Index[/title]
In a bid to promote the understanding and adoption of corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a business model for achieving business sustainability in Hong Kong, the Department of Management and Marketing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Productivity Council (HKPC) have jointly compiled the Hong Kong SME Business Sustainability Index.
The Index is compiled with information of the best 40 of those SMEs with proven records of excellent performance in undertaking CSR initiatives by assessing their performance and achievement in the three areas of value of CSR and sustainable development, their management and CSR projects, and their positive contribution to economic, social and environmental sustainability.
The mean score of the debut Index stood at 58.30 on a 100-point scale, which indicated local SMEs are in the initial stage of business sustainability. In respect to industry sectors, manufacturing received a higher score of 64.72, reflecting that the sector has implemented some business sustainability practices, whereas the score of the service sector was 55.86, indicating that it is at the budding stage.
The launching ceremony of the Index was held today (21 February) on the PolyU campus and officiated at by Ms Patricia Lui, Principal Trade Officer of the Trade and Industry Department; Mr Joseph Wong, Founding Chairman of Hong Kong SME Forum; Ms Christine Fang, Chief Executive of Hong Kong Council of Social Service; Mrs Agnes Mak, HKPC Executive Director; and President Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President.
Professor Tong hailed the launch of HKSME Business Sustainability Index as a major initiative to promote CSR and business sustainability. The Index and list of companies will be updated and announced annually. It would encourage SMEs to take up and perform CSR for the achievement of sustainable development and growth concurrently between business and society.
During the event, the best 40 enterprises in the Index were each presented with a Certificate of Recognition. Representatives of the Index's top three scoring SMEs ' Dr Jimmy Lau, Chief Executive Officer of Richform Holdings Limited; Ir Daniel M. Cheng, Managing Director of Dunwell Enviro-Tech (Holdings) Ltd.; and Ms Jane Liu, Director of Jenston Technology Corporation Limited also shared their insights and experiences on achieving business sustainability.
To cultivate a sense of civic responsibility among its students, PolyU has made the subject "Corporate Social Responsibility" compulsory for all students in business programmes, in order to develop business executives with a strong sense of social responsibility, encourage them to make good use of what they have learnt, and contribute to society.
In addition, the Faculty of Business envisioned to set up a "Research Centre for Management for Sustainability", with the objective to work jointly with the industrial and commercial sectors to promote the research and practice of business sustainability in a holistic manner.
