
[date]2012.05.11[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to Outstanding Third Age Learners[/title]
The Institute of Active Ageing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has launched the "Outstanding Third Age Learner Awards 2012" to accord public recognition for the learning achievements of people in the third age (those aged 50 or above). The Honourable Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, Secretary for Labour and Welfare of the HKSAR Government, and Professor Alfred Chan Cheung-ming, Chairman of Elderly Commission, were invited as Guests of Honour of the Awards Presentation Ceremony.
The Outstanding Third Age Learners Awards aimed to celebrate third-agers' achievements in the pursuit of lifelong learning, particularly individuals who have overcome challenges or hurdles in the learning process, and to recognize the learners' contributions to the community by applying their newly acquired knowledge or skills. The grand prizes went to Ms Chan Sui-lan, Ms Hui Shiu-yee and Dr Lee Maria.
At the Awards Presentation Ceremony staged today (11 May) at the Hong Kong Senior Fair in the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, another five third-agers were presented with the merit prizes. They were Mr Ho Ying-hung, Mr Lo Hung-cheung, Mr Ma Kam-wah, Mr Wong Hon-sum and Dr Wong Kai-shung.
Also joining at the ceremony were Dr the Honouable Leong Che-hung, Chairman of Committee on Elderly Academy Development Foundation; Mrs Kathryn Greenberg, Governor and Executive Committee Member of The Keswick Foundation; Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education); Professor Maurice Yap, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Health and Social Sciences; and Mr Kenny Lo, Chief Executive Officer of Vertical Expo Services Company Ltd. and member of the Hong Kong Senior Fair Organizing Committee.
The award recipients were selected by a five-member panel of judges which was chaired by Dr the Honourable Leong Che-hung. Other members included Mr Yeung Ka-sing, Chairman of the Hong Kong Housing Society; Mr Mak Hon-kai, Chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Senior Citizens; Professor Angeline Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership), and Mr Kenny Lo.
The Institute of Active Ageing has also set up a booth (AB03) at the Hong Kong Senior Fair to showcase PolyU's efforts in improving the quality of life of the elderly. Visitors can learn massage therapy and play rehabilitation games developed by the Interdisciplinary Division of Biomedical Engineering for elderly people. There is a showroom displaying the products of PolyU's Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre.
About PolyU's Institute of Active Ageing
The Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) is an inter-disciplinary centre that brings together expertise of 23 disciplines across the University's various faculties and schools, namely living environment, building design and engineering, business and finance, technology, health and rehabilitation, social policy, biochemistry and traditional Chinese medicine, textiles and clothing, and leisure and recreation.
IAA uses a cross-disciplinary approach to develop education, research and services to nurture manpower and produce evidence-based practices and applications that are essential for an age-friendly society. It also works closely with health care providers, private and public sectors, older adults and their families, and the general public to address issues related to the greying population.
