
[date]2012.06.11[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage Fashion Show 2012[/title]
Twenty-four graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at the PolyU Fashion Show 2012 held today (11 June) at the InterContinental Hong Kong. The graduates are either from the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles or the Higher Diploma Scheme in Fashion and Textile Studies.
The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order):
Ms Paula Beard, Director of Product Development and Merchandising, Esquel Group
Mr Billy Harris Chan, Creative Director, MOISELLE International Holdings Ltd.
Mr Silvio Chan, Creative Director, Alternatif Fashion Workshop
Ms Vincy Cheng, Fashion Communication Manager, THE WOOLMARK COMPANY
Ms Lu Lu Cheung, Creative Director, Rolls Group Ltd.
Mr Andy Fan, Chief Executive Officer, LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited
Mr Anthony T. W. Lau, Chairman, The Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Mr Walter Ma, Vice Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Mr William Tang, Designer and Director, W.Tang Co. Ltd.
Ms Angelia Teo, Content Director, Asia Pacific, WGSN
Ms Melissa Tung, Business Development Manager, Tungtex (Holdings) Company Limited
Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the fashion show, the students also competed for the following prizes:
Overall Grand Awards - Winner, First Runner-up and Second Runner-up
Design Excellence Award sponsored by Tungtex (Holdings) Company Limited
Inspiration Award sponsored by The Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Outstanding Menswear Award sponsored by Esquel Group
Best Use of Synthetic Leather Award sponsored by LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited
Best Marketability Award sponsored by MOISELLE International Holdings Ltd.
Travelling Scholarship to Denmark sponsored by Saga Furs of Scandinavia
Best Use of Australian Merino Award sponsored by THE WOOLMARK COMPANY
Australia Study Tour Scholarship sponsored by Flinders Merino
Creativity Award sponsored by Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
