
[date]2012.08.21[/date]
[title]PolyU plays host to IEEE TALE 2012[/title]
More than 100 participants from about 20 countries are gathering on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to attend the first IEEE International Conference on Teaching, Assessment and Learning for Engineering (TALE 2012) organized by IEEE Education Society, IEEE Hong Kong Section and PolyU from 20 to 23 August 2012.
Themed "Fostering Innovation and Excellence in Engineering Education", the conference provides a valuable platform for the participants to exchange ideas, views and experiences on various educational areas, such as educational methodologies and learning technologies.
IEEE TALE 2012 was officially opened today (21 August) by Professor Mike Lightner, IEEE Director and Vice President, Educational Activities; Dr Russ Meier, IEEE Education Society Vice President for Conferences; Professor Philip Chan, PolyU Deputy President and Provost; Professor HC Man, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Engineering; Professor Jiannong Cao, Head of PolyU's Department of Computing; and Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor, Department of Computing and General Chair, IEEE TALE 2012.
In his welcoming speech, Professor Philip Chan congratulated the launch of TALE into Asia-Pacific and reiterated PolyU's commitment in providing excellent professional education. He said, "The year of 2012 is particularly meaningful to PolyU as we celebrate our 75th anniversary. Over the past 75 years, PolyU has nurtured many brilliant engineering and computing graduates. 2012 also marks the beginning of the new four-year university education system in Hong Kong. Facing this challenge, PolyU will continue to nurture engineering and computing graduates through our motto 'To learn and to apply, for the benefit of mankind'".
Three renowned educators have been invited to deliver keynote presentations at IEEE TALE 2012. Professor Michael Lightner, IEEE Director and Vice President, Educational Activities, spoke on "Engineering Education: Evolution and Revolution"; Dr Rob Reilly, President, IEEE Education Society, talked about "The Science Behind the Art of Teaching Engineering"; and Professor Sorel Reisman, Past President (2011), IEEE Computer Society on ""Openly" Improving Technology-Based Teaching and Learning in the 21st Century".
The local supporting organizations for TALE 2012 included:
Association for Computing Machinery (Hong Kong Chapter)
British Computer Society (Hong Kong Section)
Communications Association of Hong Kong
Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute
Hong Kong Computer Society
Hong Kong Cyberport
Hong Kong Information Technology Joint Council
Internet Professional Association
Two industrial workshops, sponsored by MathWorks and Cypress, were held at PolyU's Hotel ICON on 20 August. To celebrate the launch of TALE, a banquet will also be held at Hotel ICON on 22 August during which Professor Walter Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development), will give a welcoming speech to the international conference participants.
IEEE is the largest professional association in the world for the advancement of technology. Starting from 2012, IEEE TALE conference will be held annually in Asia-Pacific, complementing other IEEE education conferences in North America and in Europe/Middle East/Africa.
For more details and programme of the conference, please visit its official website at URL: http://www.tale-conference.org/tale2012/
