
[date]2012.07.06[/date]
[title]Project Challenge adds excitement to PolyU Engineering summer camp[/title]
More than 300 secondary students took part in a three-day summer camp organized by the Faculty of Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 4 to 6 July with some Taiwan students joining for the first time.
Themed "Discovering Engineering ~ Fun, Challenge and Innovation", the camp sought to enhance participants' understanding of various engineering disciplines and professions, as well as to develop their design and creativity, promote their communication and leadership skills. Students could also get a taste of university life by staying in the Students Halls of Residence.
Faculty of Engineering Acting Dean Professor Kenneth Lam said, "In today's knowledge-based economy, we believe that innovation is the key for our future. In view of that, the camp consists of a wide range of activities which aims at promoting students' learning of engineering knowledge and stimulating their imagination and creativity. Moreover, students can gain better insights on their planning for future studies and careers."
The summer camp came to a climax when a Tournament on Engineering Project Challenges was held today (6 July) before the closing ceremony. 15 teams have been shortlisted to present their innovative projects including Solar Amphibious Vehicle, Hydraulic Robot and iPhone Apps Design to the panel of judges. The judging was based on the design, innovation and application of engineering knowledge in their respective projects, and Gold, Silver, Bronze and Creativity Awards were presented.
Ir K K Lo, project leader of Solar Amphibious Vehicle and Hydraulic Robot, said, "Both projects introduce students to mechanical engineering concepts. The winning creation is they can use what they have learned to drive innovation and creativity, which are also true in nowadays' competitive world."
Dr Cheung King-hong, project leader of iPhone Apps Design, said, "iPhone apps is a hit to the students, and they are eager to learn more about concept development and what makes a winning apps. The challenge gives them a chance to know what are the crucial factors that lead to a good and popular apps."
The participants were given a chance to interact with renowned business leaders, senior engineers, alumni and professors by joining the High Table Dinner. In addition, the Faculty has arranged field visits to leading corporations in town, namely Agilent Technologies Hong Kong Ltd., Asia Satellite Telecommunications Co Ltd., Drainage Services Department, EcoPark,
Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute Company Limited, Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Limited, Microsoft Corporation, Ngong Ping 360 Limited, Office of the Communications Authority, Smart Grid Experience Centre, CLP Power Hong Kong Limited and Television Broadcasts Limited.
This is the sixth year the Faculty of Engineering organized summer camp for secondary school students. Since its launch in 2007, the camp has been warmly received by participating schools and students.
