
[date]2012.11.10[/date]
[title]PolyU strikes landmark deal with Boeing[/title]
The signing of an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The Boeing Company has paved the way for the establishment of Hong Kong's first Aviation Services Research Centre (ASRC).
Witnessed by Mr John Tsang, the Financial Secretary of the HKSAR Government; Miss Janet Wong, Commissioner for Innovation and Technology of the HKSAR Government, Ms Marjorie Yang, Chairman of PolyU Council and key industry players, the MoU was signed by Dr Dong Yang Wu, Vice President, Boeing Research and Technology, China, Boeing (China) Co. Ltd; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, at a special ceremony held today (10 November) on the university campus.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Timothy Tong said: "The Aviation Services Research Centre will further enhance Hong Kong's leading position as a world-class service provider of MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) and steer the development of aviation related industries in Hong Kong and South China region."
"PolyU has a strong track record of developing advanced technologies for the regional aerospace industry with an application-oriented approach", said Dr. Wu, "we are very excited about this opportunity of partnering with PolyU and other industry partners to jointly develop technologies and enhance capabilities that will support the sustainable growth of aviation industry in China."
PolyU Vice President (Research Development) Professor Alexander Wai is pleased to note that the partnership is supported by the Hong Kong SAR Government and especially the Innovation and Technology Commission. It has also engaged the support and participation of key industry players such as Cathay Pacific Airways, China Aircraft Services Ltd (CASL), Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Ltd (HAECO) and Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Ltd (HAESL).
Mr John Slosar, Chief Executive Officer of Cathay Pacific Airways, said:  "It is fantastic to see the University partner with Boeing to open this new centre. This further reinforces the importance of Hong Kong as a premier aviation hub. And with commercial aviation poised to grow in the region for many, many years, we will need to increase the number of trained aircraft maintenance and engineering professionals available. We're glad to see these kinds of efforts being undertaken here locally."
Mr Augustus Tang, Chief Executive Officer of HAECO said: "As a leading MRO in the world, HAECO fully supports the establishment of Hong Kong's first Aviation Services Research Centre which will further strengthen and expand the capabilities of the industry, especially with the advent of state-of-the-art technologies in the manufacturing of aircraft and engines. Aircraft engineering and maintenance is a fast growing industry especially in this region and we believe the research centre will help enhance the profile and appeal of the industry for the younger generation to become aircraft engineering professionals."
Mr. Richard Kendall, Director &amp; General Manager of HAESL, added that his company was also delighted to be joining as a participant to the agreement. "HAESL has a longstanding history of partnership with PolyU on training and through the provision of scholarships for its students", he said. "Furthermore, it has been working closely for many years with PolyU IC on the design and manufacture of tools and innovative machinery to support the development of large fan jet engine maintenance in Hong Kong, and the repair of engine components. By joining this collaboration in the ASRC with PolyU and Boeing, we have the opportunity to bring this existing collaboration to an even higher level."
Dr. Angus Cheung, CEO of CASL, said the company has been in cooperation with PolyU for a long time in provision of aircraft maintenance and related training for students and young professionals to meet the company expansion plan. He further commented that the establishment of ASRC in Hong Kong will definitely enhance Hong Kong's status in facing the challenge in aviation industry ahead.
Through its partnership with Boeing, PolyU will seek to raise the standard of MRO industry and help it to scale new heights. The process is expected to bring huge economic benefits to Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland as MRO supply chain is a huge, long growing and high profit generating business.
The ASRC is backed by top-notch expertise at PolyU Industrial Centre (IC) which boasts a strong track record of making state-of-the-art space tools and its close relationship with aerospace industry. PolyU IC made its mark internationally for making space tools for the Russian Space Agency and the European Space Agency. It also supports the making of the space tools for China's lunar exploration. Locally, PolyU IC has been working closely with CASL, HAECO and HAESL.
Dr Stephen O'Brien, Director of PolyU IC, said "The PolyU IC is only too pleased to have taken part in the preparation and discussions with the participating parties for the setting up of ASRC with Boeing. We look forward to our future collaboration and hope that our best efforts can contribute and help the aviation industry in Hong Kong and China."
The ASRC will also bridge the gap between academic research findings and industrial exploitation in advanced MRO technologies and applications. It will also ensure a steady supply of well-trained and highly-skilled manpower to meet the increasingly complicated demand of the MRO industry.
