
[date]2012.09.08[/date]
[title]PolyU and Warwick jointly hold 20th Congregation for Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme[/title]
The industry-led Integrated Engineering Business Management Programme (IEBMP), jointly offered by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The University of Warwick in the UK, held its Twentieth Congregation today (8 September) on the PolyU campus.
The Congregation was officiated at by Professor Lord Kumar Bhattacharyya, Chairman and Founder of Warwick Manufacturing Group and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. Professor Roy Chung, Chairman of Federation of Hong Kong Industries, was the Guest of Honour. This year, the Congregation saluted 82 graduates for the postgraduate Integrated Graduate Development Scheme together with one Engineering Doctorate graduate.
Addressing the ceremony, Professor Tong congratulated all graduates on their successful completion of the programme and awardees of the Kolinker Industrial Equipments Limited Scholarships on their excellent academic performance. He said, "The IEBMP has nurtured a significant pool of versatile and talented professionals with engineering and business management knowledge over the years. We are particularly proud that these outstanding graduates are taking up leadership roles in their respective fields and contributing their expertise to society in various capacities. PolyU is privileged to have partnered closely with The University of Warwick in jointly promoting quality education for the business and industrial sectors."
During the ceremony, both alumni of the Programme, Ir Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council and Dr Henry Tseng, Chairman of Kingtronics Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited were re-appointed Industrial Fellows of the University of Warwick.
By integrating theories and case studies in its teaching, IEBMP is designed for senior executives and industry practitioners who would like to enhance their knowledge of engineering and industry. The unique programme covers latest advancement in e-commerce technologies, leadership and excellence, logistics and operations management, supply chain management, innovation strategy and product design management, service design and delivery.
