
[date]2012.08.31[/date]
[title]PolyU and J.P. Morgan join hands to promote environmental awareness[/title]
The "RecycleBANK Fun Fair 2012" jointly organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and J.P. Morgan was successfully held on 18 August (Saturday) on the PolyU campus to promote environmental awareness. The fun fair featured a range of education games, workshops, performances and an exhibition, and was attended by more than 1,000 participants, including children, youngsters, parents and the elderly.
"RecycleBANK Fun Fair" is an annual event first organized by J.P. Morgan in 2010 to promote green concept. This is the first time that PolyU and J.P. Morgan have worked together to roll out the message about the importance of green living and recycling to the wider local community.
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development) Professor Walter W. Yuen thanked J.P. Morgan for their generous support to PolyU. He said, "The University launched the 'PolyU Serves' Community Service Campaign in February 2012 to reaffirm our continued commitment to serving the community as well as to developing more meaningful service projects. With a commitment to the betterment of society, J.P. Morgan has made significant contributions to Hong Kong through supporting education, environmental protection, and community development. It is our great pleasure to join hands with J.P. Morgan to cultivate and promote an environmental culture in the community."
Mr Michael Fung, Senior Country Officer of J.P. Morgan, Hong Kong, said, "Integrating environmental concepts into daily life through a series of responsible practices will help to drive sustainable development for future generations. This new partnership between J.P. Morgan and PolyU is a powerful combination for promoting sustainable development."
More than 150 volunteers and various non-profit organizations, including Po Leung Kuk, Yan Oi Tong, The Women's Foundation, St James Settlement, The Lutheran Church Hong Kong Synod, and Ever Green Association rendered their support to the event. Life Solutions, VitaminWater and Fortune Sincere Holdings Ltd also sponsored the event.
