
[date]2012.06.25[/date]
[title]PolyU celebrates its achievements in knowledge transfer[/title]
In celebrating its 75th anniversary under the theme of "Innovation and Application for the Future", PolyU staged the Distinguished Knowledge Transfer Awards Presentation Ceremony at Hotel ICON on 14 June 2012 to honour researchers for their knowledge transfer achievements and recognize the importance of its valued partnerships with industry and business.
Over 180 guests including local and overseas partners from industry, businesses, government departments, as well as the PolyU community attended the ceremony to share the joy and achievements of the award recipients. The event was graced by the presence of Dr Ng Tat-lun, Deputy Chairman of the PolyU Council and Dr Raymond Leung, PolyU Court member.
Speaking at the ceremony, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong was glad to note that PolyU's knowledge and technology transfer activities have grown not only in terms of number, but also in quality, variety and impact in recent years, bringing positive contribution to the wider community.
Eleven PolyU researchers and teams were presented with the Distinguished Knowledge Transfer Excellence Awards for their accomplishments in transferring their technology/expertise to the business and industrial sectors. All the winning projects had brought impact to the society in one of the four areas including Business, Community, Research and Technological/Industrial. The Grand Award winning projects of each category were as follows:
Business achievement: successful brand building and management
Community achievement: developing interactive intention-driven upper limb training robot for stroke patients' rehabilitation
Research achievements: myopia control and contact lenses for the children of Hong Kong
Technological and industrial advancement: structural health monitoring for mega-structurePlease refer to the attached list for full award details.
The event also paid tribute to PolyU's long-term business partners with the Distinguished Knowledge Transfer Partnership Awards, for their support to the University's endeavour in knowledge transfer through engaging PolyU in various types of consultancy and licensing services.  Recipients included:
Autotoll Limited
Central Textiles (Hong Kong) Ltd
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Co., Ltd.
CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
Guangzhou New TV Tower Development Co., Ltd.
Highways Department, The Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited
Johnson &amp; Johnson Vision Care, Inc.
SDL Atlas Limited
Social Welfare Bureau, The Government of Macao Special Administrative Region
Transport Department, The Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
The Annual Outstanding Professional Services Awards 2011 were also presented to individual academic staff, project teams and departments for their achievements in consultancy and licensing services in 2011 during the ceremony.
