
[date]2012.10.17[/date]
[title]PolyU names lecture theatre after Fiona Cheung Sum Yu[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a lecture theatre at the Student Halls of Residence in Hunghom after Ms Fiona Cheung Sum Yu in recognition of her longstanding support for education, charitable services and the development of the University.
At the naming ceremony held today (17 Oct) at the Fiona Cheung Sum Yu lecture theatre, Ms Fiona Cheung, Chairman of the Forest Zone Limited, unveiled the commemorative plaque in company with Professor Roy Chung, Chairman of PolyU Court, and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President. Family and friends of Ms Cheung also attended the ceremony to share this joyful moment.
On behalf of the University, Professor Chung expressed gratitude to Ms Cheung for her generous donation of HK$4 million and continuous support to the University. He said, "The benefaction from Ms Cheung will be used to support the long-term development of PolyU and especially for teaching facility and student development."
During the ceremony, Professor Tong also expressed appreciation to Ms Cheung for her commitment to education. He said, "By naming a lecture theatre after Ms Cheung, it reminds us of her benevolence as well as her ardent support for education and charity." He added, PolyU will continue to provide quality education to reciprocate the generosity of Ms Cheung.
With a dedication to develop better connection between Hong Kong and her hometown, Nanjing, Ms Cheung has initiated the establishment of the Nanjing (H.K.) Association Limited in 2005. Ms Cheung has, moreover, actively engaged in charitable and community services.
Ms Cheung's contribution to the society has earned her list of honours over the years. She was awarded Medal of Honour (MH) in 2007. In addition, she was conferred the honorary title of University Fellowship by PolyU in 2011.
Located on the ground floor of the Student Halls of Residence, Hunghom, the "Fiona Cheung Sum Yu Lecture Theatre" has a seating capacity of 250 with comprehensive audio and visual equipment. The lecture theatre is used for general teaching purpose, seminars and academic workshops.
