
[date]2012.07.22[/date]
[title]PolyU SQUINA 2012 Asian Universities Invitational Badminton Tournament kicks off [/title]
Sixteen Asian universities' badminton teams are gathering on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to take part in "PolyU SQUINA 2012 Asian Universities Invitational Badminton Tournament". This large-scale badminton tournament is one of the celebratory activities of PolyU's 75th Anniversary.
The tournament was officially kicked off today (22 July) by Professor Yan Wuer, Chairman of All China University Badminton Association; Ms Joanne Fu, Chief Leisure Manager (Sports Funding), Leisure and Cultural Services Department, HKSAR Government; Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, Chairman and CEO of SQUINA International Group Limited; Ms Abbie S.K. Chan, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of SQUINA International Group Limited; and Professor Walter W Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development).
Professor Yuen extended a warm welcome to all participants and officials at the opening ceremony. He said, "PolyU take pride in hosting this tournament which provides a valuable opportunity for student-athletes to show their sporting prowess and vitality. We also hope that it will help strengthen collaboration among Asian universities, and promote sportsmanship and cultural exchange." Sixteen universities from the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, Macau and Hong Kong have sent representatives to this exciting sporting event. On Hong Kong side, Hong Kong Baptist University, City University of Hong Kong, The Hong Kong Institute of Education and PolyU are joining the tournament. (Please refer to the Appendix for a full list of teams and group division.)
The teams have been divided into four groups, and single round robin system will be adopted in the preliminary matches. The first two teams with the highest scores in each group will enter the final round, and single knockout system will be used to decide the champions and winners of the scholarships.
The University is grateful to the following sponsors and supporting organizations for their ardent support to the Badminton Tournament:
Title SponsorSQUINA International Group Limited
SponsorsBonny SportsBossini Enterprises Limited A.S. Watson GroupHong Kong Badminton Association Ltd.
The tournament will be closed on 26 July, Thursday.
