
[date]2012.09.15[/date]
[title]Study sheds light on adolescents’ family life and physical and mental health in Hong Kong[/title]
The School of Nursing at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Christian Family Service Centre (CSFC) have recently started a large-scale study that will span over four years till 2014 on the family life and physical and emotional health of the Form 1 to 6 students. They found that 15.7% of the respondents had experienced moderate limitation in their activities of daily life because of health conditions and other constraints.
Dr Mak Yim-wah, Assistant Professor of the School of Nursing, said there is a significant relationship between mental health and physical health, and mood disorders have become a common yet not very recognized disease in the society of Hong Kong.  'Young people are at a critical period of growth and their spiritual, psychological and physical changes have an impact on their future lives.  State of mind and emotional disturbances can affect not only the academic issues for them, it can also lead to family conflicts, substance abuse, violence, and even suicides or acts of self-destruction.  A caring and good family life would help early detection of adolescents' emotional needs, and for the parents or other related personnel to provide the early and appropriate support', said Dr Mak.
However, mental health promotion and planning in Hong Kong rely more on the overseas than Hong Kong data, and there is no system or channel to acquire comprehensive understanding of the mental health state of young people.  The last epidemiology survey on children's emotional health was done during the year of 2005 ' 2006, and the survey only investigates the conditions of children under 15 years of age.  The knowledge and understanding to emotional and mental health of secondary school students is therefore not comprehensive enough in Hong Kong.
A set of questionnaires is used to investigate family life and physical and emotional health of the Form 1 to 6 students.  Questions in this survey collect information about their physical and emotional health conditions, stress about schoolwork, and levels of satisfaction in academic achievement, life orientations, and perceptions about parents' psychological control on them.  The questionnaires are filled by students in their classrooms during school time.  A random selection of 24 schools classified by boys school, girls school, co-education school, and sources of funding has been performed from 109 secondary schools in Tseung Kwan O, Kwun Tong and Wong Tai Sin districts.  From 2011 to 2012, 7 schools had completed the survey.  A total of 6,151 questionnaires were collected so far and the entire data collection is scheduled for completion during the second semester in 2013 ' 2014.
In terms of the health conditions or constraints that may impose on everyday life, some of the students who were surveyed (15.7%) indicated that they had experienced moderate limitation in their activities of daily life.  Some students often found themselves finishing less than they wanted to because of a physical health (11.5%) or emotional (15.2%) reason.  Some students (16.1%) reported feeling downhearted and in the blues during the past four weeks most of the time and almost every day. Some students (17.7%) also reported feeling anxious, nervous and depressed in the past four weeks most of the time and almost every day. The situation is worse in girls than boys, and the gap increased with age.
With respect to family life, approximately 21.3% students had participated with their parents together in recreational or other activities for less than one day a week.  The situation is worse in boys than girls, but it reduced with the increase of age.  On the whole, about 10% of the students felt that their parents often wanted to control everything and details of their lives, and such perception on parents' psychological manipulation increased with age.  Furthermore, male students felt that fathers often controlled more than mothers did about the details of their lives.
Regarding the meaning of existence, approximately 6 ' 8% students reported a loss of direction in life.  Girls were better than boys in this regard and the overall situation improved as the students grow older.  For the degree of satisfaction in academic performance, more than half of the respondents (62.8%) indicated a lot of pressure from homework.  This grew worse as the age increased, in which girls were more serious than boys.  About 40% of the students were not satisfied with their academic achievement, and this also worsened as their age increased, of which it was again more serious in girls than boys.  In relation to mental health, these rates seem to have reached an alarming level for the health care professionals.
The study group recommends that the Government should perform children and young people's physical and emotional health surveys on a regular basis in order to facilitate the development of timely and relevant health promotion policies and interventions.  Parents, apart from their children's physical health, should pay more attention to the mental health, for instances about bad moods, boredom, lack of energy or reduce social activities, and so on.
Parents can be more proactive, interested in and supportive of young children's emotional and psychological needs; communicating more with them using the positive methods such as active listening, encouraging them more, criticizing less, reducing control, and giving them more personal space.  In order to achieve better mental health of children and adolescents, parental mental health should also be maintained or improved.
 
