
[date]2012.11.05[/date]
[title]PolyU showcases students' creativity in Product Design Show[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Mechanical Engineering has kicked off a five-day "Product Design Show" themed "Design with Impact through Innovation" from 5 to 9 November on campus recently, displaying designs of engineering students, which turn innovation into application.   The Show was opened today (5 Nov) by the following officiating guests: Ir Daniel Cheng, President of the Hong Kong Environmental Industry Association; Ir James YC Kwan, Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer of Towngas; Ir Otto Poon, Founder &amp; Chairman, Analogue Group of Companies; Mr Alex Wong, Managing Director of Kings Flair Development Limited; Ir Edmund Leung, Chief Officer (Designate) of Kowloon Canton Railway Corporation  and Chairman of Advisory Committee of ME, PolyU; Mr Patrick S.C. Poon, PolyU Council member and Treasurer; Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President ; Professor H. C Man, Dean, Faculty of Engineering, PolyU; Professor Cheng Li, Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and his colleague Professor Alan K. T. Lau.
The Product Design Show has put on display 25 prototypes and 60 other ideas of industrial-sponsored student projects in posters.  It is divided into four zones, namely "Houseware Products", "Kitchenware Products", "Electrical Appliances" and "Green Materials and Plastics".
According to Professor Alan Lau, Project Coordinator of the Show, the series of industrial-sponsored projects aims to nurture students' creativity in product design and consideration for environmental protection. Professor Lau said, "This innovative project is in a win-win situation. We hope our graduates can help the development of the industry in the long run."
Over the years, PolyU's Department of Mechanical Engineering has been working closely with local industry and especially Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to develop industrial-based products and engineering design projects. With the generous support of industry, engineering students are given opportunities to visit overseas product and engineering design enterprises; to participate in local and international product design competitions; to attend technical workshops and to join international fairs and exhibitions and promote their designs.
The Product Design Show on PolyU campus is open to members of the public. Details are as follows:
ME Product Design Show
Dates: 5 ' 9 Nov 2012 (Mon - Fri)
Opening Hours: 11:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Daily) 
Exhibition venue: FG Wing, Podium Level, PolyU campus
