
[date]2012.05.28[/date]
[title]PolyU wins overseas recognition for launching service-learning projects in Sham Shui Po[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently won the MacJannet Prize for Global Citizenship 2012 presented by the US-based Talloires Network for its "PolyU has a Heart ' Community Service Learning Programme (CSLP) in Sham Shui Po". The project was awarded the third prize and PolyU is the only university from Hong Kong out of the 72 nominations from 52 universities in 21 countries around the world on this roll of honour.
Professor Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development), was delighted with the prize as it gives due recognition for PolyU's continuous commitment in promoting service-learning in the higher education sector and particularly in the context of Hong Kong.
"The MacJannet Prize reaffirms our efforts in nurturing our students to be responsible citizens. But the University alone will not be able to ensure the success of this initiative. We hope we could enlist the support of various sectors of the community in seeking servicing opportunities for our students to apply their professional knowledge and skills," said Professor Yuen.
"PolyU has a Heart ' CSLP in Sham Shui Po" is a university-wide project organised with the combined efforts of PolyU, Sham Shui Po District Social Welfare Office, non-government organizations (NGOs) and schools in the district. Participating students are encouraged to go into a district to understand more of the community needs, to communicate with and care for the needy people including the elderly, the disabled, new arrivals and single parent families.
The pioneering project has also paved the way for the launch of "PolyU Serves" Community Service Campaign. With the implementation of the four-year curriculum starting September 2012, PolyU will introduce a credit-bearing "service-learning" requirement in its curriculum. All undergraduate students are expected to apply the knowledge and skills acquired from their studies to serve the community.
The University has also received a cash prize of US$2,500 from the organiser of MacJannet Prize for winning the third place. The money will be used to support service-learning related activities in the future as well as recognise the outstanding achievements of students and staff members.
The MacJannet Prize was established to recognise and encourage exceptional student community engagement initiatives at Talloires Network member universities around the world. It also financially supports the ongoing public service efforts. Out of the 72 nominations from 52 universities in 21 countries around the world, eight projects have been commended by the Selection Committee for their outstanding achievements.
