
[date]2012.06.27[/date]
[title]PolyU is Number One in Shipping Research, Number Four in Port Research[/title]
According to data from Thomson Reuters' ISI Web of Science, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) comes first in the world in the area of shipping research in terms of published journal papers over the past three years. Citation report of the Transportation category shows that during the period 2009 to 2011, a total of 283 shipping-related articles were published. Out of these, 23 papers were produced by PolyU.
Professor T C Edwin Cheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business, expressed his appreciation for all the support from industry, professional bodies and the government over the years. He is also grateful that members of the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies have been dedicated not only to providing quality education but also conducting innovative research and offering expert consultancy. "We are committed to strengthening the role of Hong Kong as an international maritime centre and contributing to the development of our country," He commented.
Shipping refers to cargo movement between two or more geographic locations in all transport modes. It is a global industry closely linked with international trade and shipping research has proliferated significantly in recent years. The University is dedicated to support the industry. It established the Department of Logistics in September 2003 by combining the former Department of Shipping and Transport Logistics with part of the former Department of Management. Renamed the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies (LMS) in September 2008, LMS remains Hong Kong's sole provider of comprehensive maritime education at the tertiary level.
In December 2011, LMS further established the Shipping Research Centre to promote best practices in shipping and improve the management of shipping and related activities. The Centre, also aimed at strengthening the theoretical base of decision-making in shipping and logistics management, is a valuable addition to the CY Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies, and the IMC-Frank Tsao Maritime Library and Research &amp; Development Centre administered by the Department.
In the area of port research, PolyU is the fourth institution in output, according to a paper presented at the International Association of Maritime Economists (IAME) 2011 Conference. The paper, entitled "Port Research since 1980: An Analysis of Authorship and Institutional Affiliation", looks at the productivity levels of authors and academic institutions based on 840 papers on seaport policy, and port management and operations published in 125 academic journals.
Based on an extensive search of the port literature in the three decades from 1980 to 2009, the article remarks that PolyU was "ranked in the top five due to the remarkable increase of paper production over the last 20 years". It also says PolyU "has made its appearance only in the most recent complete decade (2000s), but 21 authors have contributed to port research under its affiliation".
During the review period, PolyU was the only university in the China region that occupied a position in the top 10.
