
[date]2012.08.29[/date]
[title]PolyU students join first International Service-Learning trip to Indonesia[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has recently arranged a 25-day service-learning trip for 21 students to visit villages in Indonesia where they learned about diversity of culture and made friends with other students by serving the rural community. This was the first time that PolyU had ever organised an overseas trip of this nature. 
Spanning from 18 June to 12 July 2012, the 25-day long trip was jointly organised by the Duta Wacana Christian University of Indonesia, Australian National University and PolyU.  Students coming from three universities mixed together and grouped themselves into teams, and stayed at the homes of the in the local villagers for nearly one month.  While adapting to a very different lifestyle, they learned about the local culture and wisdom, and served the local community with their professional knowledge.
PolyU is committed to nurturing students to become responsible global citizens with a strong sense of social responsibility and global outlook. The trip has therefore provided a good opportunity for the students to involve in an international service-learning program and work together with students from Indonesia and Australia. 
All students in the programme were required to learn from the local wisdom with a view to develop local villages.  Students worked with the local community under the guidance of university staff members to identify needs of rural community and strategies to developing the potentials of these villages.  The services carried out could be categorised into five areas, namely health care, map production, education, water supply and economics.  At the end of the trip, students presented their findings and recommendations to the local government officials.
Developing local village into a tourist village is one of the service projects in the trip. Within two weeks' time, students managed to organise an Art Festival for the Duren Sawit Hamlet, including sourcing sponsorship, promotion, activity design to organization, yielding a profit of 2,153,200 Rp for the villagers. They also came up with a proposal to include Home-stay Programme and Fruit Farm Visits as tourist attractions for Sendangsono Hamlet. (Please refer to the Appendix for other highlighted projects)
"The experience is eye-opening and very special for all of us.  We are too used to city life in Hong Kong and it's hard for us to imagine how people in the rural villages are living without tap water, refrigerator, public transport, mobile phones and many other conveniences of the modern world. We also learn that life can be simple but happy," said Miss Cheung Wah, a student of the School of Hotel &amp; Tourism Management. 
The 21 participants from PolyU came from 11 academic departments. Students joining the Service-Learning trip have all found the trip most valuable for their personal development, broaden their horizon and enhance their appreciation of different culture.
 
