
[date]2012.10.03[/date]
[title]PolyU Education Info Day[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Day this Saturday (6 October) on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on the full-time undergraduate and higher diploma programmes. The second cohort of Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) applicants are most welcome to obtain detailed information about studying at PolyU.
Admission talks will be held on the event day to help Secondary 6 students familiarize with the admission requirements and selection mechanism of our 4-year degree and 2-year higher diploma programmes. The average scores of 2012-13 HKDSE applicants admitted to our programmes will also be released to students for reference via the Study@PolyU website.
Academic staff and student ambassadors of PolyU will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students.
To give prospective applicants in-depth information on PolyU's study programmes, over 90 information seminars and consultation sessions will be organized by its various academic departments. Topics of the seminars include: "The Exciting Fashion &amp; Textile Industry", "Kick Start Your Career with a Management/ Marketing Degree", "The New Geomatics: Satellites, Google and Wi-Fi Shopping", "Internet and Multimedia: Technologies in Our Daily Life", "Education for the 21st Century Social Workers", "Broad Discipline of Language, Culture and Communication", "Moving toward the Design Career in Multiple Media" and "School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) Advantage: Come Explore Your Future with Us".
Other highlights of the event include: visit to the House of Innovation where many PolyU's award-winning research projects are displayed and the well-equipped Industrial Centre; and performances by PolyU's outstanding sportsmen and student bodies. Furthermore, exhibitions, demonstrations and other attractions will be staged to make the Info Day lively and vibrant.The PolyU Education Info Day will be open from 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. For more details,  please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday
