
[date]2012.09.13[/date]
[title]PolyU Mainland Programme Graduates Distinguished Achievement Awardees announced[/title]
This year marks the 75th anniversary of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), to commemorate this joyous occasion, PolyU will present "PolyU Mainland Programme Graduates Distinguished Achievement Award" to twelve alumni for the first time, in recognition of their remarkable professional achievements and contributions to their alma mater and the community. The award presentation ceremony will be held on 13 October at InterContinental Hotel, Shenzhen.
The awardees, in alphabetical order of last name, are:
Ms Huang Qing, Director of Enterprise Culture &amp; Senior Engineer, AVIC Xi'an Flight Automatic Control Research Institute (Master of Science in Information Systems)
Dr Li Yue, President, China Mobile Communications Corporation  (Doctor of Business Administration)
Mr Liang Jun, Postmaster, Xi'an Mail Centre (Master of Business Administration)
Ms Liu Xiaoyan, Secretary-General, Shaanxi Provincial Committee of the Communist Party of China  (Master of Business Administration)
Mr Lu Ping, Director and General Manager, Gansu Electric Power Investment Jinchang Power Co. Ltd (Master of Business Administration)
Mr Dickson Sezto, Chief Executive Officer, INSITE Asset Management Group Ltd. (MSc in International Real Estate)
Mr Sheng Qiuping, Party Secretary, Yongjia County, Committee of the Communist Party of China (Master of Science in Quality Management)
Professor Shi Bainian, Professor, China Youth University for Political Sciences (MA in Social Work)
Mr Wan Feng, Board Chairman, Centre Testing International (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. (Master of Business Administration)
Dr Wang Xiaochu, Executive Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors &amp; CEO, China Telecom Corporation Limited (Doctor of Business Administration)
Mr Xin Jie, Chairman of the Board and General Manager, Shenzhen Tagen Group Co. Ltd. (Master of Business Administration)
Mr Jeremy Xu, Vice President, China National Travel Service (HK) Group Corporation (Master of Science in Hotel &amp; Tourism Management)
With the strong support of the Ministry of Education and the Academic Degree Commission of the State Council, PolyU has been offering academic award programmes in different cities of the Chinese mainland since 1998. Over 6,000 graduates have gone through the devoted learning and knowledge acquisition process by studying professional training and degree programmes led by PolyU academics.
As one of the major celebratory activities of PolyU's 75th anniversary, "PolyU Mainland Programme Graduates Distinguished Achievement Award" aims at honouring outstanding graduates of PolyU's mainland programmes for their distinguished professional accomplishments and significant contributions to the community and their alma mater.
The eight-member Panel of Judges is chaired by Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU. Other members include (in alphabetical order of English Surnames): Ir Professor Johnny Fan Siu-kay, President, Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; Professor Lai Maode, Vice President, Zhejiang University; Ms Elsie Leung, Former Secretary for Justice, HKSAR; Dr Raymond Leung Siu-hong, Court member, PolyU; Professor Liu Yingli, President, Shenzhen Enterprise Confederation and Shenzhen Entrepreneur Association; Professor Lu Tianjian, Vice President, Xi'an Jiaotong University; Professor Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, Council Member, PolyU; and Mr Wang Shuifu, Bauhinia Cup Awardee and Chairman of the Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Association. 
