
[date]2012.09.17[/date]
[title]PolyU opens new chapter in new academic year[/title]
With the implementation of the new four-year undergraduate curriculum, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has turned over a new leaf in its 75 years of history. The University welcomed in over 7,500 first-year students at the start of the new academic year on 17 September 2012.
The double cohort year sees the admission of some 2,440 and 2,340 students respectively for the three-year and four-year Bachelor's degree programmes funded by the University Grants Committee (UGC), while another 1,810 full-time students have been enrolled for UGC-funded higher diploma programmes.
To help freshmen to become familiar with the University and cultivate their interest in setting personal goals leading to a rewarding university life, PolyU has organized a pre-term faculty/school-based Common Orientation Programme. All freshmen were greeted by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong at the welcoming ceremony which was followed by an inspirational talk given by distinguished speakers in their own fields. Speakers included Mr Stanley Hui, Chief Executive Officer of Airport Authority Hong Kong, and Mr Douglas Young, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of G.O.D.
On the admission of mainlanders, about 280 Chinese mainland students are joining the four-year undergraduate programme this year. PolyU received about 4,600 applications from mainland students. Among them, nearly 90 per cent have met the entrance requirements of state key universities. The majority of them came from Beijing, Guangdong and Liaoning.
In addition, the University has admitted about 100 international students from 22 countries and territories, including Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, Chile, France, India, Indonesia, Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Seychelles, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey and the US. They will pursue their first degree studies of their choices.
Committed to cultivating its international ties, PolyU's Student Exchange Programme offers students opportunities to study and experience a different culture at over 200 renowned universities across 25 countries and regions. Currently, around 290 exchange students from 19 countries across the world, including Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, Norway, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the UK and the US, have been admitted to PolyU for exchange in the first semester.
The University has also set up two information counters during the first week of the new semester to answer the common questions of freshmen.
