
[date]2012.11.06[/date]
[title]PolyU alumni to celebrate 75th Anniversary at Homecoming Fiesta[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) will jointly stage the "2012 PolyU Alumni Homecoming Fiesta" on the university campus this Sunday (11 November) from 12 noon to 6 p.m.
As one of the major 75th Anniversary celebratory events of PolyU, this year's Homecoming Fiesta features a wide array of activities including exhibitions, talks, games, workshops, guided tours and sports tournaments which are grouped under six themes, namely Innovation and Technology, Knowledge Transfer, Community Services, Green Impact, Vitality and Sports Talents, and Campus ' Now and Then.
All graduates of PolyU, the former Hong Kong Polytechnic, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Government Trade School, are welcome to bring along their families and friends to enjoy a fun-filled Sunday and witness the recent development of PolyU.
The "PolyU Alumni Homecoming Fiesta" is held biennially and has long been a popular event among PolyU graduates, staff and students, drawing thousands of participants to the university campus. In celebrating the Institution's 75th Anniversary, the Fiesta not only aims at cultivating close links between the University and its graduates, but also showcases the latest research accomplishments of PolyU's various Faculties and Schools.
One of the highlights of the event will be a singing performance staged by PolyU alumnus and singer Kenny Chan and his acclaimed vocal quartet "C AllStar" during the Kick-off Ceremony of the Fiesta.
In addition to the "Federation Cup Soccer Tournament" and "PolyU Alumni 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament", some environmentally friendly programmes like "Campus Gardening" Workshop and "Campus Tree Appreciation" Tour have been arranged with the aim of building a greener PolyU campus.
On the event day, a number of sports facilities will be opened for free use. Apart from joining guided tour to visit PolyU's facilities, including the School of Hotel and Tourism Management, C Y Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies and Industrial Centre, participants can also take a bus tour to visit PolyU's new Student Halls of Residence, Hotel ICON and The Phase 8 Development.
The organizers also expressed their sincere appreciation to the following sponsors for their generous support towards the Alumni Homecoming Fiesta: Hoi Tin Tong Company Limited, Safety Godown Company Limited, Maxim's Caterers Limited and caffè HABITŪ.For more details about the programmes of "2012 PolyU Alumni Homecoming Fiesta", please visit https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/fiesta and for enquiries, please call Alumni Affairs and Development Office on 2766 4102 / 2766 5123 or send e-mail to alumni@polyu.edu.hk.
