
[date]2012.10.13[/date]
[title]Secondary School Mathematics and Science Competition comes to fruitful close[/title]
The 2012 Secondary School Mathematics and Science Competition organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has come to a successful close with more than 5,000 students from some 160 secondary schools joining it. The Awards Presentation Ceremony was held today (13 October) on the university campus.
Professor Walter W. Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Academic Development), commended the participants for their outstanding performance. He hoped the Competition could help arouse students' interests in Mathematics and Science as well as enhance their generic skills of creativity, problem solving, communication and collaboration. He was also pleased to note that the total number of participants has increased from 2,000 to 5,000 this year.
The Competition was divided into four subject areas, namely Mathematics, Physics, Biology and Chemistry. While it was open to all Secondary Five students, outstanding Secondary One to Four students were also welcome to join through school nominations. Participants were asked to answer both Part A Multiple Choice and Part B Conventional Questions which were mainly extracted from the New Senior Secondary Curriculum. A few questions were set outside the scope of the curriculum to test their skills.
This year, a total of 184 medals were presented to 158 students who have achieved excellent results in the Competition. Among them, four were awarded three medals and 19 with two medals. To give due recognition for their outstanding performance, two special awards ' President Awards and Vice-President Awards have been introduced.
According to the organizer, for those who have achieved High Distinction or above in the Competition, if they choose PolyU programme(s) as their Band A choice(s) in the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS), special interviews will be arranged and bonus marks may be added to enhance their chances of admission to the nominated programmes.
For recipients of the President's Awards and Vice-President's Awards, if they were also nominated by their schools' Principal for PolyU programme(s), they might be given conditional offers and scholarships by the University.
To further promote mathematics and science education in Hong Kong, PolyU will launch "Junior Secondary School Science Competition" (mainly for Secondary Three students) and "Junior Secondary School Mathematics Competition" (mainly for Secondary Two students) in 2013 to foster students' interest in Integrated Science and Mathematics as well as develop their potentials and skills in these subject areas.
