
[date]2012.05.24[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Design opens largest show in its 48-year history[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) School of Design (SD) today (24 May) launched the grand opening of its month-long Annual Show on its campus. This year's Show is the biggest exhibition in the history of SD, with more than 200 students and faculty members taking part in it.
"From A to [space]", the Show's theme commemorates the final Annual Show held at SD's current premises, Core A, before moving to a new space on campus. The Show is open from 24 May to 25 June.
The opening ceremony was officiated at by Ms Michelle Ong, Founder of First Initiative Foundation and Exquisite Jewellery Designer and Director of Carnet Jewellery, Professor Walter Yuen, Vice President (Academic Development) of PolyU, and Professor Cees de Bont, Dean of School of Design.
The Show highlighted the final-year projects of the students from Bachelor and Higher Diploma programmes in the disciplines of Advertising, Environment &amp; Interior, Industrial &amp; Product, Visual Communication, Digital Media, Multimedia Design and Technology, and Product Innovation Technologies as a conclusion of their studies in design. In addition, top-notch design research and projects at the postgraduate level will be showcased.
Highlights from some projects from this year: Time Burglar by Gus Cheung - a mobile application raising awareness of punctuality and encouraging users to break the habit of chronic lateness. Future Taxi for Hong Kong by Wing Yeung - a hydrogen-powered taxi that is smaller, more efficient and convenient than the existing ones. Night Out - a mobile community cinema designed by Kitty Wong that utilizes abandoned community facilities such as the "involuntarily closed" schools, for non-profit making screening of thematic local films and independent movies in a social cinema setting.
The present location of School of Design at Core A on campus has served as a budding ground for generations of young designers in the School's 48-year history. A special exhibition "Core A Memories" was introduced this year, featuring the memorabilia from the alumni and the School's own archive covering handwork, yearbooks, photos, and other objects organized by decades.
The Annual Show is free and open to the public. Guided tours are available to secondary schools and thematic days are tailor-made for industry groups. For details, please visit www.PolyUDesignShow.com.
PolyU Design Annual ShowVenue  AG101, Core A, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung HomDate &amp; Time 24 May to 25 June 2012 (daily), 11:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
About PolyU's School of Design
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University School of Design ' PolyU has been an important hub of design education and research for Hong Kong since 1964. Providing design education from undergraduate to postgraduate levels, the School is poised to play a leading role in nurturing new generations of designers and driving design innovation in the region. SD is ranked as one of the top design schools in the world by BusinessWeek.
To further drive the development of Hong Kong as a design hub in Asia, and provide additional space to facilitate multidisciplinary collaboration, a new complex named "Innovation Tower" will be built on campus. The Innovation Tower will be the first permanent architectural work in Hong Kong of Ms Zaha Hadid, one of the most influential figures in the world of modern architecture.
Specialisms of SD include advertising, environment and interior design, product design, communication, interaction and digital media. Programs are offered at higher diploma, bachelor, master, and PhD levels. Its Master of Design (Design Strategies) program was rated by the BusinessWeek among the world's best "design thinking programs".
Famous designers who graduated from SD include Mr Raman Hui (Animation), Mr Freeman Lau (Branding, Art), Ms Vivienne Tam (Fashion), Mr Anthony Lo (Automotive), Mr Yip Kam-tim (Film), Mr Dennis Chan (Jewelry), to name just a few.
