
[date]2012.10.24[/date]
[title]PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management and Hotel ICON Present A Star of Renaissance[/title]
"A Star of Renaissance" gala, jointly presented by the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Hotel ICON, on 23 October (Tuesday) has successfully raised over HK$2 million for SHTM.
The gala was attended by the city's leading personalities and celebrities and they all got a taste of the best of Italy on the evening. Among those in attendance included Henry and Lisa Tang, Walter and Wendy Kwok, Thomas and Linda Lau, Cissy Pao Watari, CC and Harriet Tung, Gordon and Ivy Wu, John van Praag and Pat Fok, David and Christine Wong, David and Nancy Chiu, Daniel and Angel Chan, Lynn Hsieh, and the Italian Consule-General Alessandra Schiavo.
With the full support of renowned Italian Grand Cru wineries, guests have enjoyed six of Grand Cru's most celebrated wines. Over the past 20 years, the Comitato Grandi Cru d'Italia (Grand Cru Committee) of Italy has been bringing exceptional wines, news on wine as well as wine guides to connoisseurs and sommeliers around the world. The committee also sets guidelines for the Comitato Grandi Cru d'Italia for grading wines and setting criteria for Grand Cru wineries in order to maintain the quality and standards of Italian wines.
The Grand Cru Committee of Italy has also donated exceptional bottles to the SHTM for charity auction during the evening. Guests generously placed bids on various bottles, raising over HK$2 million for SHTM. The fund raised will be used to support students of the School by setting up a Travelling scholarship.
Along with the exceptional Grand Cru wines, guests were also treated to gastronomic delights created by three-Michelin Star Chef Annie Feolde and her team. The star of Enoteca Pichiorri restaurant in Florence, Chef Feolde's culinary creations are the perfect complement to the sensational Italian wines.
Besides wonderful treats for the palette, the evening was also filled with visual excitement. Renowned vocalist Elia Astornio and Italian pianist Stefano Rover were present at the gala, bringing an unforgettable air of Italian flair to the evening.
About School of Hotel and Tourism ManagementPolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009. With 65 academic staff drawing from 19 countries and regions, the School offers programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was recently bestowed the McCool Breakthrough Award by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel ' Hotel ICON ' the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education. About Hotel ICONUnlike any other, Hotel ICON is an upscale Hong Kong hotel in the heart of Tsim Sha Tsui East. Standing as a testament to Hong Kong's creative energy and vibrant arts scene, Hotel ICON showcases work from the city's celebrated designers and the world's most acclaimed architects. Offering the ultimate in comfort and committed to service excellence, Hotel ICON's 262 stylish guestrooms comprise seductive extras, including complimentary wired and Wi-Fi internet connections and an ultra-slim 40" Ultra High Definition LED TV. Located on level 9, Hotel ICON's Angsana Spa is a tranquil oasis while the harbor-facing outdoor swimming pool and fitness centre allow guests to exercise while enjoying views of Hong Kong Island's spectacular skyline. With a maximum capacity of 580 persons, Hotel ICON's grand Silverbox ballroom is the ideal venue for a celebration or theatre-style conference. Hotel ICON houses three restaurants: Above &amp; Beyond, The Market and GREEN, providing guests with exceptional quality of the food and impeccable service. wallpaper magazine included Hotel ICON in its 2011 list of the world's Best Business Hotels and earned a coveted spot in the Condé Nast Traveler's 'Hot Tables 2012' list.
