
[date]2012.07.26[/date]
[title]Results of PolyU SQUINA Asian Universities Invitational Badminton Tournament[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the 'PolyU SQUINA 2012 Asian Universities Invitational Badminton Tournament' has come to a fruitful close. The winners of individual and mixed team competitions received trophies and medals in the Award and Closing ceremony in PolyU's campus today (26 July).
The teams were divided into four groups in mixed team event, single round robin system was adopted in the preliminary matches. The first two teams with the highest scores in each group entered the final round and single knockout system was used.
Beijing Jiaotong University won the Mixed Team Champion after keen competition among seven teams including PolyU. University of Science and Technology of China and University of The Thai Chamber of Commerce resulted in winning first and second runner-up. They were awarded HK$20,000, HK$10,000 and HK$5,000 scholarship respectively, and received trophies, medals and certificates in the Closing ceremony.
For individual events, Qiao Bin(å–¬æ–Œ) from University of Science &amp; Technology of China and Lu Lan(ç›§è˜­) from Nanjing University of Finance &amp; Economics won the champion of men's and women's singles, while the champion titles of men's, women's and mixed doubles went to  WONGYAPROM and PHAISANSOMSUK from University of The Thai Chamber of Commerce,  CHALADCHALAM and SERITHAMMARAK from University of The Thai Chamber of Commerce, and  PUTRI K.Y. and HADIYANTO from Universitas Indonesia respectively. The champion winners were awarded HK$10,000 scholarship each (Please refer to the appendix for overall results).
This large-scale badminton tournament is one of the celebratory activities of PolyU's 75th Anniversary. The Tournament was closed by officiating guests including Mrs Angel S.P. Chan Lau, Chairman and CEO of SQUINA International Group Limited; Ms Abbie S.K. Chan, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of SQUINA International Group Limited; and Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership).
Dr Patrick Chan, the Executive Chairman of the Organizing Committee for the Tournament expressed gratitude to all those involved at the closing ceremony. He said, 'PolyU is grateful that the Tournament has promoted badminton among Asian universities, cultivated friendship and collaboration among Asian universities, and provided student-athletes a valuable opportunity to show their sporting prowess and vitality.'
Sixteen universities from the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, Macau and Hong Kong have sent representatives to this exciting tournament, competing for the championships in individual and mixed team events in the five-day tournament.
The University is grateful to the following sponsors and supporting organizations for their ardent support to the Badminton Tournament:
Title SponsorSQUINA International Group Limited
SponsorsBonny SportsBossini Enterprises Limited A.S. Watson GroupHong Kong Badminton Association Ltd.
 
 
