
[date]2012.12.19[/date]
[title]PolyU promotes knowledge enterprises through MAKE Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Knowledge Management and Innovation Research Centre (KMIRC) has successfully run the Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award in Hong Kong for five years. This Award has encouraged more Hong Kong enterprises to keep abreast of best practices in knowledge management (KM) and provided a platform for local enterprises to benchmark their KM performance for further improvement.
This year's MAKE Award Presentation Ceremony was held at Cyberport today (18 December), followed by a sharing forum jointly organized by KMIRC and Cyberport. The event has won support of government officials, educational and business leaders. Officiating at the ceremony were Mr Kim Salkeld, Head of the HKSAR Government's Efficient Unit; Ir Professor Choy Kin-kuen, President of Hong Kong Institution of Engineers; Mr Herman Lam, Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Ltd; and Mr Nicholas W. Yang, Executive Vice President of PolyU. Mr Stephen Selby, Former Chair of the APEC Intellectual Property Experts' Group also delivered a speech on behalf of the judging panel.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Nicholas Yang said, "To compete in the knowledge-based economy nowadays, enterprises should adopt a new business model, i.e. to effectively manage the intangible assets and intellectual capital for enhancing the competitive advantage and the innovation capability which are the key factors to productivity, competitiveness and sustainability."
All winning enterprises have exhibited outstanding knowledge management achievements with mature and humanistic KM strategy. This year's top prize went to Hong Kong Productivity Council. Other winning enterprises included Arup; Ernst &amp; Young, Hong Kong; Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Limited; MTR Corporation Limited; and Pfizer Corporation Hong Kong Limited.
A sharing forum was organized after the ceremony during which Mr Neil Salton of Woods Bagot, winner of Asian MAKE Award, Mr Jiejia Lin of Kingdee Software (China) Co. Ltd., winner of MAKE Award (Chinese mainland) and Mrs Agnes Mak of Hong Kong Productivity Council (Top winner of Hong Kong MAKE Award) shared their KM experiences with the audience. In the panel discussion session, local winners also shared their successful experience in KM implementation.
The Global MAKE award is an international benchmark of best practice knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management. Since 2008, the MAKE Award has been introduced in Hong Kong and Chinese mainland by the PolyU Knowledge Management and Innovation Research Centre.
