
[date]2013.04.05[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces International Design and Business Management Master Programme to develop "T-shaped" professionals[/title]
School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Asia's No.1 of the world's best 25 design schools, has introduced a new master programme in International Design and Business Management to nurture all-rounded "T-shaped" leaders who function in design-sensitive and technologically intensive business environments, cross-pollinate among business units in order to stay innovative and competitive..
Developed in collaboration with the University of Technology, Sydney, Northumbria University, New Castle, and PolyU's Faculty of Business, the International Design and Business Management (ID&amp;BM) Master in Design program is an interdisciplinary specialism based on a design-thinking management approach.  The program caters for the surging global demand for "T-shaped" professionals.
The ID&amp;BM Master in Design program is unique and the first of its kind to be offered in the Asia Pacific region. Through the programme, students will develop high-level competencies in understanding and managing global business dynamics. These competences enable students to lead the transformation of their respective local enterprises and challenge existing mindsets in technological innovation.
The curriculum of the programme pulls together professional knowledge in design, business and technology fields to practice "managing design as a competitive strategy" in an international business setting. Students will be exposed to a highly internationalized environment where they will meet fellow classmates from Hong Kong, Mainland China and overseas and form strong networks. It normally takes one year to complete the one-year full time programme.
The program will attract those who aspire to be well-balanced products-services innovators, business leaders and entrepreneurs. Applicants will be required to hold a bachelor's degree in design, business, technological fields or other related disciplines.
Corporate leaders have shown their enthusiastic support through scholarships for local and non-local students, including Bright Future Charitable Foundation, Ming Foundation, and Sin Wai Kin Foundation Limited.
The new ID&amp;BM specialism will be offered in September 2013, with Tuition fee HK$132,120. Deadline for application will be on 20 May 2013.   
Please find the program brochure at URL: http://www.sd.polyu.edu.hk/web/download/MDes_ID&amp;BM_progrm_brochure.pdf
