
[date]2013.03.01[/date]
[title]PolyU academics elected HKAES Fellows[/title]
Ir Professor Alexander Wai Ping-kong, PolyU Vice President (Research Development), and Professor Chow Wan-ki, Chair Professor and Head of PolyU's Department of Building Services Engineering, have recently been elected Fellows of the Hong Kong Academy of Engineering Sciences (HKAES). The HKAES Fellowship is a recognition of distinguished achievements in serving Hong Kong with top quality engineering expertise.
Professor Wai is an expert in research on future optical network technology including all-optical packet-switching. He has received seven U.S. patents on his inventions in optical packet-switching and other technologies. To recognise his contribution in optical communication and optical networks, Professor Wai was elected to the rank of Fellow by the Optical Society of America in 2009. He is also an IEEE Fellow and was selected for the "National Science and Technology Programmes Expert Database" by the State Ministry of Science and Technology in February 2012. Professor Wai is an active contributor with over 160 refereed international journal publications. He is currently an Associate Editor of IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology.
Professor Chow specializes in the areas of Architectural Science, Fire Science and Engineering, and Building Services Engineering and is well recognized in research on applying Computational Fluid Dynamics for building fire simulations and indoor aerodynamics. He has published over 450 refereed papers in international journals cited by SCI and EI, and is an international leader in Fire Engineering. He established the Society of Fire Protection Engineers (SFPE) ' Hong Kong Chapter as Founding President in 2002; and has became the President of Asia-Oceania Association for Fire Science and Technology since 2007. Professor Chow was presented the Hat's Off Award, Harold E. Nelson Service Award and John L. Bryan Mentor Award by SFPE in 2003, 2006 and 2011 respectively.
Founded in 1994, the Academy is formed by distinguished engineers to promote science advancement and the practice of engineering for the benefits of Hong Kong. Apart from supporting education and research programmes, it regularly organizes conferences and seminars, and provides expert advice on engineering matters to government and other organizations.
No more than eight individuals will be honoured with HKAES Fellowship each year for their distinguished achievements and commitment to serving the society with their expertise. Among the current Fellows are the Hon. Sir S.Y. Chung, the first Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Hong Kong Polytechnic (PolyU's predecessor); Professor Timothy Tong, President of PolyU; and Professor J. M. Ko, Professor Emeritus &amp; Senior Advisor of PolyU's Faculty of Construction and Environment.
