
[date]2012.11.28[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the Chinese mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (28 November) at a special presentation ceremony of the University's "Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme", presiding over by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. After the ceremony, a seminar was organized for the scholars to share their views on the future development of university.  The distinguished scholars are Professor Zhu Shining, Professor of Nanjing University; Professor Hu Haiyan, President of Beijing Institute of Technology; Professor Chen Junshi, Senior Research Professor of the Institute for Nutrition and Food Safety, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention; Professor Ye Shenghua, Professor of Tianjin University; Professor Cheng Ping, Chair Professor of Shanghai Jiaotong University; and Professor Zhai Wanming, Professor of Southwest Jiaotong University. All the scholars are either a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences or a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
During their stay in Hong Kong, the distinguished scholars, who were nominated by the University's academic departments, are presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. They also exchange ideas with and advise the departments concerned on a wide range of topics.
An expert in material physics, Professor Zhu Shining's research interests include micro-structured function materials and physics, ferroelectric domain engineering, nonlinear optics, laser physics and technology, and quantum optics. He has developed domain engineering technique for optical superlattices, extended the fundamental and applied researches of quasi-phase-matched (QPM) and multi-QPM from nonlinear optics to quantum optics, and developed various new laser devices by using optical superlattices and QPM scheme. Professor Zhu has published more than 260 academic papers in Science Citation Index (SCI) journals including Science, Nature Materials, Nature Photonics, and Physical Review Letters, etc. He received the Outstanding Young Scholar Award from Qiu Shi Science and Technologies Foundation of Hong Kong in 1998. He and his colleagues received the First-class National Natural Science Award in 2006 in recognition of their achievements on the fundamental and applied studies of dielectric superlattices.    Professor Hu Haiyan, an expert in mechanics, has built a distinguished research career through his studies on the dynamics and control of mechanical systems. He has made significant contributions to the nonlinear dynamics of vibration control systems, the dynamics and control of vibro-impacting systems, and the flutter control of aeroelastic systems. He has authored and co-authored 2 monographs and over 210 journal papers, which have been cited over 4,000 times by other scientists. He was conferred the honour of "Doctorate Degree Holder in China with Outstanding Contributions" in 1991, received China's Outstanding Young Scientist Fund in 1996, and elected the "Outstanding Young and Middle-aged Scientist with Outstanding Contributions to China" in 1998 and the "Pioneer in the Technology and Industry for National Defense" in 2001. Professor Hu received the Second-class National Science and Technology Progress Award in 2005, and the Second-class National Natural Science Award in 2006.
Professor Chen Junshi, an expert in nutrition and food safety, is one of the founders of food toxicology in China. Professor Chen studied selenium and Keshan disease from 1968 to 1976 and received a Schwarz Award in 1984. He conducted large epidemiologic studies on diet, nutrition and chronic diseases, in collaboration with Dr T. Colin Campbell, Cornell University and Professor Richard Peto, University of Oxford from 1983 to 1993. His book has been selected as the cover feature of the journal Cancer Research (Issue No. 11, 1992), with the honour of the First-class Technology Progress Award from China's Ministry of Health. Between 1990 and 2000, he conducted three total diet studies in China and was regarded as a role model by the WHO. Between 1994 and 1998, he conducted a series of studies on the protective effects of tea on cancer, including laboratory study and human intervention trials. Since 1998, he has systematically studied the prevention of anemia by NaFeEDTA-fortified sauce.
Professor Ye Shenghua, an expert in measurement technology and instrumentation, was among the first group of researchers in China who introduced laser technology into precision measurement in the early 1970s. His research work has resulted in a series of novel measurement principles and methodologies as well as their wide applications. Professor Ye received many prestigious awards in his career, including the Prize for Scientific and Technological Progress of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation in 2007, and the Second-class National Award for Technological Invention in 2011. He was also a recipient of the National Outstanding Invention Patent Award. In 2009, China Instrument and Control Society (CIS) conferred to Professor Ye the honorary title of "Contemporary Outstanding Scientist in the Field of Instruments and Measurement in China".
Professor Cheng Ping, an expert in engineering thermophysics, has done seminal research work in porous-media heat transfer with applications to geothermal energy recovery and fuel cells, radiative gasdynamics with applications to re-entry of space vehicles, and most recently in microscale heat transfer with applications to cooling of electronic chips. He has published over 200 SCI journal papers that have been cited more than 5,000 times, achieving an H-factor of 39. As a Fellow of American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), Professor Cheng has received four top international honours, including (i) 1996 ASME Heat Transfer Memorial Award, (ii) 2003 AIAA Thermophysics Award, (iii) 2005 ASME/AIChE Max Jakob Memorial, and (iv) 2006 ASME Heat Transfer Classic Paper Award. He was also a recipient of the First-class Natural Science Award of Shanghai in 2006 and the Second-class National Natural Science Award in 2007.
Professor Zhai Wanming has been engaged in the research of railway system dynamics, focusing on train-track-bridge interactions. He established the theory of vehicle-track coupled dynamics. On the basis of this theory, he put forward a matching design principle and method for optimizing dynamic performances of overall vehicle and track systems. He proposed an evaluation method based on train-track-bridge dynamics simulation for assessing the running safety of high-speed trains passing through bridges. These theories and methods have been successfully applied to more than 20 key engineering projects in China's speed-up and high-speed railways. He received the First-class and the Second-class National Science and Technology Progress Awards by the State Council of China in 2005 and 2009 respectively. In 2006, Professor Zhai received the Prize for Scientific and Technological Innovation of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation (Hong Kong) and Chang Jiang Scholars Achievement Award by the Ministry of Education. He was also a recipient of the Chinese Young Scientist Prize.
