
[date]2013.01.15[/date]
[title]PolyU CheonG Lee Securities Invitational Golf Tournament comes to a fruitful close[/title]
More than 50 golf teams comprising prominent business and community leaders, alumni and friends of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) have rendered support to "PolyU CheonG Lee Securities Invitational Golf Tournament" held last Friday (11 January) at Mission Hills Golf Club in Dongguan. The fun-filled event has not only raised over $1.7 million for the long-term development of the University, but also secured around 70 scholarships for students to take part in the Service-Learning programme.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong thanked all parties involved for making the event a success. He said, "We are glad to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the golf tournament. It has not only provided a platform for PolyU friends and alumni to get together for a friendly match, but also an excellent opportunity for us to introduce the inclusion of ‘Service Learning' in the new four-year curriculum."
After a round of golf, the "Alumni Cup", "Industrial &amp; Business Cup" and "Honourary Chairman Cup" awards went to Ernst &amp; Young, Golf 18 Club and Larry Jewelry - 1 Team respectively. Individual awards: the Best Gross Championship of Men's Individual went to Mr Chan Wing-chung (Duval course) and Mr Martin Li (Leadbetter course) respectively.
This year, CheonG Lee Securities Limited (member of CL Group (Holdings) Limited) was the title sponsor of the event. The tournament was organized by a committee comprising PolyU friends and alumni under the Chairmanship of Mr Bob Chong, Managing Director of Chungnam Corporation Limited. Other members of the Organizing Committee included Vice Chairman Mr Tenniel Chu, Vice Chairman of Mission Hills Group; Convenor Dr Dennis Ng, Managing Director of Polaris Jewellery Manufacturing Limited; Professor Liu Yingli, President of Shenzhen Enterprise Confederation and Shenzhen Entrepreneur Association; five Honorary Chairmen Mr Anthony Leung, Managing Director of Continental Conair Limited; Dr Yip Kit-chuen, Chairman of Shanghai GMP Electrical Appliances Company Limited; Mr Patrick Luk, Managing Director of Legend Jewelry Company Limited; Mr Lee Yuen-fat, Chairman of Ka Shui International Holdings Limited; and Mr Peter Lau, Managing Director of Joyas Manufacturing Limited.
Apart from promoting friendship between PolyU and its friends and supporters, the net proceeds raised from this event will be used to support PolyU's development of Service-Learning subjects and to set up the "Service Learning Scholarships" to recognize students' outstanding performance. Through the event, the University hopes to foster a closer link and partnership with various sectors of the community to further enhance the development of higher education in Hong Kong.
