
[date]2013.03.19[/date]
[title]YCHSSD and PolyU jointly develop novel health qigong for frail elderly[/title]
Yan Chai Hospital Social Services Department (YCHSSD), in collaboration with The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, has developed a novel health qigong protocol for frail elderly in Hong Kong and ascertained its health benefits scientifically in terms of cognitive, psychosocial, physical and physiological aspects.
The pioneering study titled 'Developing and testing the effectiveness of a novel and easy-to-learn Chinese mind-body exercise for frail elders in Hong Kong' was jointly completed by Yan Chai Hospital Social Services Department and Professor Hector W.H. Tsang, Professor and Associate Head of PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, with the support of expert panel members comprising qigong researcher, occupational therapist, social worker, physiotherapist, psychologist, and TCM practitioner. It aims at developing a novel and easy-to-learn health qigong for frail elders who are cognitively and physically unfit to practise traditional health qigong protocols and other more demanding aerobic exercises.
The newly developed and easy-to-learn health qigong protocol, which is coined 'Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades', has integrated the best of two popular health qigong protocols ' namely Baduanjin and Yijin Jing ' using functional anatomical analysis and expert panel approach. Moreover, Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades can be practised in both standing style and sitting style. After the protocol was first formulated, a field test was conducted to assess participants' physiological responses against standard safety criteria.
It was found that the qigong protocol was safe without any major adverse effects to the participants. A randomized controlled trial was then conducted to evaluate the health benefits of Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades. A total of 116 frail elders participated in the study and were randomly divided into two groups for the study. Among them, 61 participants were asked to practise Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades in 60-minute sessions, two times a week for 12 weeks, while the subjects in the control group just spend the time on newspaper reading. After three months, it was found that Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades health qigong group participants showed significant improvements in cognitive functioning, perceived physical health, activities of daily living, reduction in resting heart rate as well as overall health status.
Yan Chai Yi Jin Ten Section Brocades is now being practised in residential care homes and day care centres under Yan Chai Hospital Social Service Department with minimal professional assistance. As Yan Chai Yi Jing Ten Section Brocades is physically less demanding, frail elders could easily and safely practise the protocol at home. Training Manual and DVD are now available to introduce the novel health qigong protocols for healthcare professionals.
 
 
