
[date]2013.02.16[/date]
[title]PolyU wins Most Supportive Group Award in HK Marathon again[/title]
With more than 3,700 students, staff, alumni and their family members and friends joining its running team, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set another new record for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2013, to be held on 24 February, by sending forth the largest single team for this international event for four consecutive years.
The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held today (16 February) during the Marathon Expo at Victoria Park. Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President, fanned by PolyU staff and students, received the Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award on behalf of the University.
"We are delighted to see the number of PolyU participants surpassing all expectations again. We hope that the University's participation in this community-wide event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni," said Mr Yang.
To help PolyU participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre and PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences has set up a booth at the Marathon Expo where visitors could receive free test and assessment in core stability, flexibility, running gait, body composition and kinesio taping.
A team of PolyU practising physiotherapists will also be there on the Marathon Day to provide support for the participants, and to offer some basic treatment and professional advice for PolyU runners.
The organizing committee of the PolyU Running Team also expressed sincere thanks to Nike, Bossini, Adidas, Burt's Bees, My Beauty Diary, Tao Ti, Hoe Hin Pak Fah Yeow Manufactory, Novartis, Maggie Beauty and Spring Public Relations for their generous sponsorship for the team and the race.
PolyU formed its debut running squad for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon in 2009. In 2011, the number of participants registered for the PolyU running team soared to more than 3,300, forming the biggest participating team ever for the event.
