
[date]2012.11.20[/date]
[title]Triumph for PolyU students at "Retail Futures Challenge" in a row[/title]
For the second consecutive year, students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) have scooped the championship in the Retail Futures Challenge with their innovative and creativity business proposal. The Challenge is a highlight event for the World Retail Congress 2012.
The PolyU team comprised four students from Institute of Textiles and Clothing, namely Miss Ung-min Lee (captain), Mr Nigel Yau, Miss Jann Lam and Miss Alexandra Leung. Under the tutelage of their academic supervisors, Dr Chris Lo, Mrs Paulene Hsia, Dr Ho Chu-po and Dr Rachel Yee, the team worked on their proposal and practised for the presentation for nearly six month. To show their support for the team, Dr Lo and Mrs Hsia, together with Ms Deborah Vinson, Executive Vice President of Li &amp; Fung, also made a trip to London to join the Challenge held in mid-September.
With the theme of "Imaging the Store of Tomorrow", the competing teams were required to present a business plan of a new start-up retail business under new retail landscape and emerging digital technologies and channels. PolyU team won the competition by creating an upmarket, one-stop luxury children's retail model named "Palais de Tresors". PolyU team outsmarted competing teams from four top fashion retails schools and was awarded the championship.
With a technology-based store experience and "virtual butler" to be downloaded by smart phone or tablet PC users, "Palais de Tresors" provides a seamless shopping experience to target customers, especially "generation Y" parents in Chinese Mainland, and has impressed the judges and over 1000 delegates, who voted for the champion of this competition.
Mr Bernie Brookes, Chair of Judges and the Chief Executive Officer of Myer Holdings Ltd, added, "PolyU's plan was presented with the top prize for its remarkable concept on integration of social media, creative app and dream shopping karts." Once again, Li &amp; Fung has proudly sponsored PolyU students' airfare and travelling expenses. New Digital Noise Limited, a Hong Kong based web and mobile applications developer, has also provided technical advices on the proposal of PolyU students.
Not only has the PolyU team impressed panel of distinguished judges, the students' performance was also highly commended by the delegates. After winning the laurel, the four students were able to draw attention from international firms and head-hunters, and were offered internship opportunities by Li &amp; Fung.
About World Retail Congress 2012
The Congress is the world's largest business event in the retail industry, and the pre-eminent meeting place for retail leaders across the globe. This year, the Congress attracted over 1,000 senior executives from the global retail industry. Speakers included leading retailers and visionaries, in over 40 interactive business streams, keynotes and executives roundtables. Some of the world renowned brands were Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Adidas, Gucci, Li &amp; Fung, Marks &amp; Spencer, etc.
