
[date]2013.03.01[/date]
[title]CIHK sets up Research Center for Chinese History and Culture and Research Center for Chinese Language Teaching[/title]
To further enhance teaching and learning of Chinese language and promote international understanding of Chinese history and culture, the Confucius Institute of Hong Kong (CIHK) has recently established two research centers for Chinese History and Culture and Chinese Language Teaching on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
The two research centers were officially opened today (1 March) by Professor Ma Jianfei, Deputy Chief Executive of Confucius Institute Headquarters and Deputy Director-General of Hanban; Mr Jiang Yandong, Director of Confucius Institute Affairs Division 1, Confucius Institute Headquarters (Hanban); Professor Chen Lai, Director of Tsinghua Academy of Chinese Learning and Research Fellow of Central Research Institute of Culture and History; Professor  Philip C.H. Chan, PolyU Deputy President and Provost; Professor Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) and Chairman of the Council of CIHK; and Professor Chu Hung-lam, Chair Professor of PolyU's Department of Chinese Culture and Director of CIHK.
The Research Center for Chinese History and Culture and the Research Center for Chinese Language Teaching are established as the research arm of CIHK with an aim of developing CIHK into an international center of advanced Chinese studies. The Centers will serve as the institutional applicants and administrators of research grants, coordinators of research projects, coordinators of research and writing of teaching and reading materials, and facilitators of seminars and conferences.
CIHK also launched this year's 'Distinguished Lecture Series on Chinese Culture and Religion' and hosted an inaugural lecture given by Professor Chen Lai on the same occasion. The topic of the lecture was 'Confucianism and Contemporary China'.
CIHK was founded in 2005 and officially inaugurated in 2006. PolyU was authorized by the China National Office for Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (also known as 'Hanban') to set up and run the CIHK. Located on the PolyU campus, it is the only Confucius Institute in Hong Kong and the only one of its kind in Chinese territories.
For more details of the newly established Research Centers, please visit the official website at http://www.cihk.org.hk/en/rc.php


 
