
[date]2012.12.14[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff members[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (14 December) paid tribute to some 40 dedicated staff members for their outstanding achievements in teaching, research and scholarly activities and services.
The Awards are grouped in the categories of "President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement", the "Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement" and the "Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff". They are presented by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):
- Dr Basak Denizci Guillet, Assistant Professor, School of Hotel and Tourism Management
Dr Denizci Guillet joined the University in August 2007. She excels as both a researcher and as a teacher, believing there is value in knowledge only when it is shared with others. Brimming with creativity, courage, and with an unshakable commitment to lifelong learning, she is an enthusiastic, creative, and self-reliant teacher. Her mission is to enlighten and inspire. Using her classroom as a stage, she turns every lecture into a performance, engaging her students and exciting them with her passion. In developing her own teaching methodology, she also remains open to new and innovative techniques such as on-line simulations, puzzles, interactive games, and real-time case studies.
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):
- Dr Fuk Yee Kwong, Associate Professor, Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology
After completing his postdoctoral training in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr Kwong joined the University in 2004 as a Lecturer and became Associate Professor in 2010. Since his engagement, Dr Kwong has received several awards in PolyU, including Award for "Excellent Achievements in Teaching", Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles in 2007, "Research &amp; Scholar Activity" in 2010 and the "Good Teacher Award", Department of Applied Biology and Chemical in 2009 and 2010. Dr Kwong has also secured continued support from the Research Grants Council's General Research Fund and has been awarded HKD 4.3 million in total over seven consecutive years since 2005.
Research and Scholarly Activities (Team):
- Professor David Zhang (Team Leader), Professor Jane You, Dr Lei Zhang and Dr Ajay Kumar, Department of Computing
Established in 1998 under the leadership of Professor David Zhang with support from the University Grants Committee, the Biometrics Research Centre (BRC) has now become a renowned centre of research internationally.
BRC is a comprehensive centre for multi-disciplinary research and is devoted to the development of state of the art biometrics technologies. It is a leading world player in biometric technology and the application of multi-technologies in biometrics-related industries. Apart from developing collaborative multi-disciplinary research efforts to meet international needs, BRC also takes an active role in nurturing Hong Kong's biometrics industry. On top of all this, BRC upholds the world's largest biometric databases, including palm print and tongue, providing invaluable support to institutions worldwide for both academic and student research projects.
Services (Team):
-Dr Julia Chen (Team Leader), Dr Juliana Chau, Ms Shari Lughmani, Dr Svetlana Chigaeva, Miss Winnie Wu Oi-ying, Miss Emily Chan and Ms Marie Ng, The English Language Centre
Motivated by the need and desire to gauge the English language performance of senior secondary students and to strengthen the tertiary-secondary interface, the English Language Centre's Project Team for New Senior Secondary (NSS) Academic Structure launched a pilot initiative in 2010, to provide training to secondary school teachers on the acquisition and evaluation of English writing and reading skills.
With expert guidance from the NSS team, these teachers designed reading and writing assessments not just to test students but also improve their performance. The Project Team developed an electronic assessment platform to facilitate online marking and the provision of diagnostic feedback to students. Student performance was analysed and the project findings were disseminated to each school in the form of feedback reports. This pilot project involved around 1,000 students, providing timely training to teachers and their students, and as such was re-run the following year. Including the re-run project, the projects reached around 2,000 students from 36 secondary schools in just over two and a half years.
Overall Contribution (Team):
Mr S.K. Chan (Team Leader), Mr Daniel Suen, Ir Kenny Chan, Mr Low Hon-wah, Miss Tang Shuk Mei, Ms Chan Ka Lee, Campus Development Office; Mr Peter Chan, Miss April Wong, Ms Wu Shuk Ying, Finance Office
The Redevelopment of Pak Sui Yuen project is undoubtedly one of the most challenging and complicated construction projects ever undertaken by the University.  It required constant effort and energy applied skilfully and with utmost care. Winning policy support and various statutory approvals for this rather controversial venture demanded diplomatic co-ordination and negotiation with a multitude of stakeholders to tackle and solve inherited conflicting requirements. Smart yet prudent financial planning was vital, demanding proficient and flexible project management in order to facilitate changes whilst maintaining cost and quality control, not to mention the creation of innovative architectural designs to achieve a multi-functional as well as iconic building. 
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty/School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. Exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
