
[date]2013.01.25[/date]
[title]PolyU Design School pitches in 48-hour Global Game Jam[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University's School of Design (PolyU Design) is joining game designers around the world today (25 January) to host the Hong Kong leg of the Global Game Jam. More than 11,000 game designers from over 300 locations will be connected to design games within a 48-hour period. The two-day event will last until 27 January 2013.
The GGJ 2013 challenges game designers and game design students from around the world to design digital games on one given theme (a secret until the event commences). They will explore new technology tools, try on new roles in development and test their skills in designing, developing, and testing a new game. Participants are students and professionals with different skill sets which include sound designers, programmers, game designers, animators, graphic designers, character designers, storytellers, etc. 
"GGJ 2013 is definitely an intellectual challenge in which game students and game development professionals join together to exchange ideas and come up with new innovations. It is held annually with increasing number of participants, showing how fast the game design industry is growing ' also here in Hong Kong," Dr Hanna Wirman, Visiting Assistant Professor of PolyU Design said.
"As the first organizer in Hong Kong, we have the great honour to introduce this to the game development industry locally." Apart from global game makers, local design students from PolyU Design, The City University of Hong Kong, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Design Institute and Savannah College of Art and Design are also participating in this event.
For details, please visit the event's official website: http://ggjhongkong.blogspot.hk/
About The Hong Kong Polytechnic University School of Design (PolyU Design)
PolyU has been an important hub of design education and research for Hong Kong since 1964.  Providing design education from undergraduate to postgraduate levels, the School is ranked as one of the top design schools in the world by BusinessWeek and the first in Asia among the top 25 in the world by Business Insider. In 2013, the School will reach a major milestone when it moves to a purpose-built facility for design designed by award winning architect Zaha Hadid.
PolyU Design's specialisms include advertising, environment and interior design, product design, communication, interactive and digital media. Programmes are offered at higher diploma, bachelor, master, and PhD levels. Its Master of Design (Design Strategies) programme was rated by the BusinessWeek among the world's best "design thinking programmes". Famous designers who graduated from PolyU Design include Raman Hui (Animation), Freeman Lau (Branding, Art), Vivienne Tam (Fashion), Anthony Lo, (Automotive), Yip Kam-tim (Film), Dennis Chan (Jewelry), among others.
About Global Game Jam
The Global Game Jam is an annual event, organized by the Global Game Jam, Inc., an international non-profit corporation based in California, of game making where collaboration, experimentation and innovation are its mission. It is known for helping foster new friendship, increase confidence and opportunities within the community. In 2012, the jam had 242 locations in 47 countries, creating over 2,000 games in one weekend that became a Guinness World Record.
