
[date]2013.03.25[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts 6th International Symposium of Intimate Apparel[/title]
Organized by the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the Sixth International Symposium of Intimate Apparel was held today (25 March) on the PolyU campus to promote the exchange of the latest knowledge and development of intimate apparel among academics and industrialists. The event was supported by the world's leading lingerie and beachwear trade show organizer Eurovet and the Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association Ltd.
Themed "News for the Global Intimate Apparel Industry", this year's symposium brought together some 240 local and overseas lingerie experts to share their insights and experiences. This symposium discussed the latest opportunities and development in the global lingerie market. It also sharpened the industry's competitive advantage on future strategies.
The symposium was officially opened by Professor John Xin, Chair Professor and Head of ITC, and Mr Kenneth Wong, Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association and Director ' Sales &amp; Marketing of Top Form Brassiere Mfg. Co. Ltd.
Distinguished speakers have been invited to share their ideas and experience on the new development for the global intimate apparel industry. Mr Paschal Little, Head of Innovation and Quality for Lingerie and Beauty of Marks &amp; Spencer plc, delivered a talk on "New Market Needs", Mr Bill McRaith, Chief Supply Chain Officer of PVH Corp., talked about "New Sourcing Strategies", and Ms Angie Lau, Chief Executive Officer of Clover Group International Ltd., spoke on "New Opportunities of Overseas Production". Mr Andrew Sia, Honorary Chairman of The Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association and Adjunct Professor of PolyU ITC, served as the moderator of the Discussion Forum.
Established with strong industrial support in 2005, the Ace Style Institute of Intimate Apparel of ITC is the first lingerie institute in the Asia Pacific. Over the years, the Institute's research has reaped fruitful results and gained international reputation. Its graduates from the BA (Hons) programme in Intimate Apparel are sought after by the industry. Starting from 2008/09 academic year, the programme has been converted to a government-funded articulation programme. This milestone not only signifies the quality of the programme, but also charts a new course in the study of lingerie at tertiary level.
Detailed information of the Symposium is available at: http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk/asiia/symposium
