
[date]2013.04.08[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Wofoo Foundation Lecture Theatre naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a lecture theatre on its campus after Wofoo Foundation to pay tribute to the Foundation Chairman Dr Joseph Lee for his significant contributions to education and community services, as well as ardent support to the University.
At a special ceremony held today (8 April), The Honourable Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, Secretary for Labour and Welfare of the HKSAR Government, and Dr Joseph Lee jointly unveiled the commemorative plaque in company with Mr Patrick Poon, Council member and Treasurer of the University, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership). Dr Lee's family members and friends also attended the ceremony to witness this memorable moment.
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Matthew Cheung highly commended Dr Lee for his dedication to education, particularly for the younger generation. Apart from running a direct subsidy scheme primary school, Dr Lee has spared no effort in youth leadership training and civic education. Mr Cheung remarked that both Professor Tong and Dr Lee are his good companions in the course of the development and enhancement of social welfare services.
"Dr Lee has demonstrated great commitment to the well-being of the elderly by providing social services for the needy. PolyU, on the other hand, is committed to providing academic and professional training for the community to prepare for the challenges arising from ageing population," said Mr Cheung.
Professor Tong also expressed sincere gratitude to Dr Lee for his generous donation of HK$4 million and ardent support to the University over the years. He said, "We are honoured to have received another donation from Dr Lee in support of student development and the Mainland Experience Scheme. With Dr Lee's benevolence, more PolyU students could be benefited from the Scheme which helps to broaden their horizon and enhance their understanding of the motherland."
The generous donation given by Dr Lee will provide additional resources for the University to offer more opportunities for students to enrich their learning experience.
An enthusiastic social entrepreneur and philanthropist, Dr Joseph Lee established the Wofoo Foundation in 1997 with the mission to providing quality service to support the youth, care for the elderly and fostering a better Hong Kong.  Located on the third floor of FJ Wing, the Wofoo Foundation Lecture Theatre has a seating capacity of 106 with comprehensive audio and visual equipment. The lecture theatre is widely used for general teaching purpose and for holding seminars and academic workshops.
