
[date]2013.02.28[/date]
[title]Joint primary School Mathematics Competition comes to a fruitful close[/title]
Jointly organized by the Department of Applied Mathematics of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and secondary schools from 18 districts in Hong Kong, the territory-wide Joint Primary School Mathematics Competition (JPSMC) 2012 has come to a fruitful close. The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held today (28 February) at the Jockey Club Auditorium on the PolyU campus.
Officiating at the Ceremony were Professor Keith Chan, PolyU Dean of Students; Professor Qi Li-qun, Head of PolyU's Department of Applied Mathematics; Professor C. K. Chan, Associate Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Applied Sciences and Textiles; Mr. Lee, Arthur M.S., Teaching Consultant of Division of Science, Mathematics &amp; Computing, Faculty of Education, HKU; Mr Lee Pak-leung, Chief Officer of Quality Assurance and School-based Support Division, Education Bureau, the HKSAR government; and Mr Leung Kwong-shing, Chief Curriculum Development Officer, Education Bureau, the HKSAR government.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Keith Chan said the competition has demonstrated PolyU's commitment to nurture young people for society and to promote quality education through collaborations with secondary and primary schools. "The University hopes that the territory-wide competition would encourage students to apply what they have learnt in the classroom into real life situations," he added. To further promote students' interests in Mathematics, PolyU has launched the "Mathematics Challenge for Young Australians" (MCYA) in Hong Kong recently. This programme is supported by the Australian Government and specifically developed by Australian Mathematics Trust (AMT) for Primary Five to Secondary Three students who are good at mathematics.
This year, the Overall Champion of JPSMC went to La Salle Primary School and First Runner-up to S.K.H. Yan Laap Memorial Primary School. Po Leung Kok Wong Wing Shu Primary School was the Second Runner-Up.
The winning team of each district together with nine other teams with the highest scores in JPSMC 2012 would be invited to join "High Achievers Club" (HAC), which is established in 2011. The winners are also entitled to join gifted programmes offered by PolyU during the Easter Holidays and summer vacation.
JPSMC is the largest mathematics competition of its kind in Hong Kong. This year, more than 3,000 students from 330 primary schools participated in the competition, which was held on 15 December 2012. Over 200 awardees received the prizes today. 
  
