
[date]2013.01.14[/date]
[title]PolyU donates specially designed elderly undergarments to Helping Hand[/title]
The Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre (CAC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing has specially designed 100% cotton undergarments for the elderly and donated to three care homes of Helping Hand recently, at a total value of HK$120,000.
The donation project has also garnered support from Chicks, which is founded by Chun Au Knitting Factory Ltd, and Cotton Council International, USA.
The project is organized for the second time since 2012. It aims at transferring PolyU CAC's design knowledge to the industry for making undergarments suitable for the elderly, benefiting the elderly community. CAC is responsible for designing the undergarments, while Chicks takes care of production and Cotton Council International, USA provides high quality cotton.
The donation ceremony was held on 5 January 2013 at the elderly home of Helping Hand in Cheung Muk Tau. The undergarments would be distributed to elderly residents at three care homes of Helping Hand in Cheung Muk Tau, Lok Fu and Lai Yiu Estates. Officiated at the ceremony were Ms Belly Luk, Executive Director of Helping Hand; Mr Tam Kin Tung and Mr Terry Tam, Executive Directors of Chun Au Knitting Factory Ltd; Ms Karin Malmstrom, China Director of Cotton Council International, USA; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of CAC, PolyU.
Dr Frency Ng expressed her sincere thanks to Chicks and Cotton Council International, USA for giving PolyU the opportunity to transfer knowledge and serve the community. She hoped that CAC could join force with other industry practitioners in the future for knowledge transfer and serving the community.
Established in 2007, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia which promotes the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the disabled and the elderly. The Centre has brought together multi-disciplinary experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals.
