
[date]2012.11.19[/date]
[title]PolyU Designated Headquarters by International Body of Hotel Professionals[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been designated by the Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals (HFTP), an international professional association based in Texas, U.S., as its headquarters for the Asia-Pacific region.
Situated in SHTM, the new headquarters was unveiled on 16 November by Mr Frank Wolfe, HFTP Chief Executive Officer, and Professor Kaye Chon, SHTM Dean and Chair Professor.
"The setting up of a headquarters at the SHTM adds greatly to the value of the HFTP as our members will be able to better network with their peers within the region to everyone's mutual benefit," explained Mr Wolfe. He also noted that the association with the SHTM adds greatly to the communication of the academic efforts within the region during a period of such dramatic growth, providing opportunities for everyone involved.
This marks yet another recognition of the world-class standing of the SHTM as well as the rising importance of hospitality and tourism education in Asia. Professor Chon remarked, "Through this platform, the SHTM will further contribute to the effort in facilitating the education and professional development of hospitality practitioners and, in turn, help enhance the professional standard for related disciplines."
Founded in 1952, HFTP is dedicated to providing the hospitality finance and technology community with useful resources and networking and educational opportunities. It has currently over 4,800 members around the world. 
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 65 academic staff drawing from 19 countries and regions, the School offers programmes at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was recently presented with the McCool Breakthrough Award by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel ' Hotel ICON ' the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education.
