
[date]2012.12.28[/date]
[title]PolyU’s design school ranks among top 25 in the world [/title]


The School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has become the only design school in Asia ranked among 'The World's 25 Best Design Schools', according to a new survey conducted by Business Insider magazine.
Business Insider conducted the survey over a two-month period to find the top 25 design schools in the world. The magazine wrote: 'All of these schools are comparable in terms of academics, quality of staff, and amazing campuses. But what matters most is how valuable these schools really are.'
Out of the 633 respondents to the survey, 87.8% said they studied or participated in a post-secondary level design programme. Most of the respondents were art directors (26.9%) or product designers (30.3%). The vast majority of respondents (76.6%) said skills and knowledge were the most valuable asset their respective design programmes offered.
Professor Cees de Bont, Dean of PolyU School of Design, was pleased with the School's world ranking as it reiterated its significance in building design knowledge for Asia and the Chinese mainland.PolyU is the pioneer and sole provider of design education at tertiary level in Hong Kong. Since 2006, its School of Design has been consistently ranked among the world's top design schools by the US magazine BusinessWeek. The School thrives on its geographical position in bridging the East and the West, allowing its students to develop their cultural awareness skill at both professional and social levels. This globally unique position provides a direction for the contribution of PolyU's School of Design to the design discipline.
To further drive the development of Hong Kong as a design hub in Asia, and provide additional space to facilitate multi-disciplinary collaboration, a new complex named 'Innovation Tower' will be built on campus.
For details of the survey, please see full report published in Business Insider at http://www.businessinsider.com/the-worlds-25-best-design-schools-2012-11?op=1
