
[date]2013.01.23[/date]
[title]PolyU names lecture theatre after Dr Jimmy Tang Kui-ming[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a lecture theatre on its campus after Dr Jimmy Tang Kui-ming, Chairman and CEO of Prince Jewellery and Watch Company, in recognition of his benevolence and ardent support for education and the University.
At the naming ceremony held today (23 January), Dr Jimmy Tang and Mrs Emily Tang, Executive Director of Prince Jewellery and Watch Company, officiated at the plaque unveiling and ribbon cutting ceremony in company with Mr Patrick Poon, Council member and Treasurer of the University, Professor Roy Chung, Chairman of PolyU Court, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, and Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President. Family and friends of Dr and Mrs Tang also attended the ceremony to share this joyful moment.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Tong expressed heartfelt gratitude to Dr Tang for his generous donation of HK$3 million and continuous support to the University over the years. He said, "Since 2006, PolyU has benefited from Dr Tang's generosity which included the Gala Dinner of PolyU 70th and 75th Anniversary and many other fund-raising initiatives. The recent benefaction from Dr Tang has provided a strong boost for PolyU to make further advancement."
Professor Tong went on to announce that Dr Jimmy Tang has pledged to donate another HK$1.5 million to PolyU for setting up scholarships to encourage students to pursue excellence in their studies. Professor Tong registered a vote of thanks to Dr Tang for his kindness and support to the University. Dr Jimmy Tang shows great care for the community by actively supporting social and charity services, and is particularly concerned with education for the younger generation. Dr Tang's contribution to society has earned him a roll of honour over the years. He was awarded Medal of Honour (MH) in 2010.
Located on the third floor of Lee Shau Kee Building, the "Tang Kui Ming Lecture Theatre" has a seating capacity of 121 with comprehensive audio and visual equipment. The lecture theatre is widely used for general teaching purpose, seminars and academic workshops.
