
[date]2013.01.20[/date]
[title]Opening of Speech Therapy Unit on PolyU campus[/title]
The Speech Therapy Unit set up by the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) was officially opened yesterday (19 January) on the campus. Operated by a group of experienced and qualified speech therapists, the Speech Therapy Unit offers assessment and treatment services to people suffering from communication and swallowing disorders in the community.
The opening ceremony was well supported by senior management of the stakeholders and partners of the industry. Officiating guests included Mr Kenneth Wu Kee-huen, Education Services Secretary of Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (TWGHs); Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President; Professor Churen Huang, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Humanities; and Professor Shi Dingxu, Head of PolyU's Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies.
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Nicholas W. Yang said, "PolyU has always been providing application-oriented education that stays close to the practical needs of our community and has a leading role in educating allied health and language professionals. The Speech Therapy Unit creates a new academic direction which is inter-disciplinary, based on PolyU's existing strengths, fits PolyU's goal of being application-oriented, and has an enormous room for future development on research, teaching and learning as well as services to the public."
Dr Leung Man-tak, person-in-charge of the Speech Therapy Unit, said, "Due to the marked discrepancy between the number of professionals available and the needs of people with Communication Disorders on the Chinese mainland, more and more mainlanders are coming to Hong Kong for private speech and language therapy service. Speech Therapy Unit serves as a research and teaching and learning platform. On one hand, it facilitates the research collaborations among linguists, speech therapists and academics from other disciplines. On the other hand, it serves to provide valuable clinical experiences for the training of our students."
In March 2012, PolyU signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with TWGHs. The collaboration aims at fostering quality and effective support services to students with special educational needs through evidence-based research and professional development at schools in the area of teaching and learning. The partnership has started for nearly one year and the initial outcome is encouraging.
In addition, the Master of Speech Therapy programme will be offered in September 2013. The first full-time postgraduate programme offered by a recognized university in Hong Kong, it aims to equip students with the professional knowledge and skills which can meet the needs of the society.
For further information about the Speech Therapy Unit, please visit its official website at http://st.cbs.polyu.edu.hkor contact 3400 3636.
        
