
[date]2013.03.23[/date]
[title]PolyU honours awardees of the "Youreable" Fashion Design 2013[/title]
More than 300 elderly and disabled people from 15 non-governmental organizations of Hong Kong, Macau and the Chinese Mainland have participated in the "Youreable" Fashion Design 2013, an event organized by the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre (CAC) under The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC).
The meaningful event not only provides the elderly and the disabled with an opportunity to unleash their talents in fashion design and apparel making, but also helps foster community care and social inclusion through teaming up the participants with others in the community.
To acknowledge the hard work of the participants, an Award Presentation Ceremony was held today (23 March) on the university campus with Dr the Honourable Ko Wing-man, Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR Government, and Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, officiating at the event. The awards of Best Design Concept, Most Creative Design, Best Design, Best
Design Interpretation, Outstanding Performance, Outstanding Design Interpretation Award and Devoted Volunteer were presented during the ceremony.
In his address at the ceremony, Dr Ko said, "The 'Youreable' Fashion Design event could provide the elderly and the disabled an opportunity to express their emotion through fashion design in order to build up their self-confidence as well as improving the communication with the public."
Professor Tong remarked, "The 'Youreable' Fashion Design event, now in its fourth year, has provided a unique platform for the elderly and the disabled to showcase their talents in fashion design. Our students have also benefited from the event by putting classroom theories into practice and serving the community at the same time."
Among the 300 finished products, 24 were selected and the loved ones of the elderly and disabled participants dressed in these outfits at a catwalk show. Ms Stephanie Cheung Yung, Ambassador of the "Youreable" Fashion Design 2013, also dedicated a song at the ceremony to pay tribute to all participants. 
Established in 2007 to promote the concepts of specialized clothing and supporting accessories for the disabled and the elderly, the Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre is the first of its kind in Asia. The Centre has brought together multi-disciplinary experts in textiles and clothing, clothing designers, rehabilitation specialists, as well as health care professionals.
