
[date]2013.01.22[/date]
[title]PolyU introduces "Mathematics Challenge for Young Australians" for gifted students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) signed today (22 January) an agreement with the Australian Mathematics Trust (AMT) to launch the "Mathematics Challenge for Young Australians" (MCYA) in Hong Kong. This programme is supported by the Australian Government and specifically developed by AMT for Primary Five to Secondary Three students who are good at mathematics.
Professor Peter Taylor, Director of AMT, has made a special trip to Hong Kong to attend the MCYA launching ceremony and signed the agreement with Professor Keith Chan, PolyU's Dean of Students.  Professor Keith Chan said the MCYA has been introduced in Australia for years and is well known among teachers and parents, and PolyU is honoured to be the only authorized teaching institution of the MCYA in Hong Kong.
Organized by PolyU, The first series of "Mathematics Challenge for Young Australians" is scheduled to commence from February 2013. The series includes challenge stage and enrichment stage. Primary Five to Secondary Three gifted students who have outstanding performance in mathematics are being invited to enroll for MCYA.
The MCYA consists of six series which are designed for different levels of gifted students, namely Newton Enrichment Series, Dirichlet Enrichment Series, Euler Enrichment Series, Gauss Enrichment Series, Noether Enrichment Series and Polya Enrichment Series. 
Moreover, MYCA has four distinct features:
1. Wider ScopeTopics and contents of the series far beyond mainstream curriculum in Hong Kong, enabling students to reach their own levels of excellence in mathematics 2. More Flexible, better coherenceThere is no entry series in the Challenge, students could enrol in different series which suit their levels3. Suitable levels for students' mathematics capabilityEntry assessment will be arranged for all successful students at the beginning of the series, to group them into suitable levels. At the end of the series, they will be assessed again to decide whether they will be enrolled in the next level4. Enrich communication skillsStudents will have to work with others during the course of the Challenge, becoming partners and support each other
Upon completion of the Enrichment Series, local students will be invited to participate in the 'Australian Intermediate Mathematics Olympiad' (AIMO) held by AMT. Students with outstanding performance in AIMO might join gifted programmes offered by PolyU's departments to experience a more interactive, self-motivated and interesting learning model.     
     
