
[date]2011.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding staff members[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (25 November) paid tribute to some 30 dedicated staff members for their outstanding achievements in teaching, research and scholarly activities and services.
The Awards are grouped in the categories of "President's Awards for Excellent Performance / Achievement", the "Faculty / School Awards for Outstanding Performance / Achievement" and the "Outstanding Performance / Achievement Awards for Non-academic Staff". They are presented by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the respective Faculty Deans and the School Board Chairmen.
The winners of the President's Awards are:
Teaching (Individual):- Dr Henry Chan, Associate Professor, Department of Computing
Dr Chan believes that a good teacher should have the attribute of being Thoughtful, Enthusiastic, All-rounded, Creative and Helpful (TEACH). With this in mind, he is dedicated to nurturing students and realizing their potential and practical dreams. A representative example is Dr Chan's student Lau Hiu-fung. Despite suffering from Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy since the age of eight, Hiu-fung graduated with first-class honour in 2009 under the supervision of Dr Chan. With Dr Chan's nominations, Hiu-fung was also named among "Ten Outstanding Young Persons" in 2010 and received PolyU Outstanding Alumni Award in 2011.
- Professor Iris F. F. Benzie, Chair Professor and Associate Head, Department of Health Technology and Informatics   Professor Benzie's teaching philosophy centres around student engagement and responsibility, developing a culture of mutual respect and trust and establishing common goals that are ambitious but attainable. She is committed to promoting students' confidence to support their development as responsible members of society and future leaders of their profession and the community. Her teaching methods are innovative, creative, stimulating, highly-effective and very well received by students.
Research and Scholarly Activities (Individual):- Professor Chen Xiaojun, Professor and Associate Head, Department of Applied Mathematics
Professor Chen has made outstanding contributions to both the theory and algorithms for solving nonsmooth, nonconvex optimization problems, stochastic equilibrium problems and nonlinear equations with many important applications in engineering and economics. She has successfully won General Research Fund Grants for four consecutive years since 2008. Her excellent research achievements have earned wide recognition and helped raise the department's professional standards in mathematical research.
- Dr Su Zhongqing, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Dr Su's major research interests include structural health monitoring, smart materials and structures. Over the past few years, Dr Su has secured more than HK$5 million funding as a Principal Investigator. He has published over 100 scholarly papers including some 60 in top journals, and authored two books and four book chapters, along with three edited conference proceedings. In recognition of his achievements, he received an Early Career Symposium Fellowship Award from the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering in 2006.
Services (Individual):- Dr Vincent T.Y. Ng, Associate Professor and Associate Head, Department of Computing
Apart from teaching and research, Dr Ng encourages his students to serve PolyU and the wider community. Dr Ng and his colleagues have launched a community service programme in the department to help students acquire professional and life-long learning experience through serving others. In the past decade, more than 40 community service projects have been implemented. Over 200 PolyU students participated and around 2,000 people have benefited from these projects.
Services (Team):- Dr Ong Chung-wo, Professor Helen Chan-Wong Lai-wa, Mr Matthew Wong Man-hon, Mr Eugene Ng Yu-him, Dr Wong Yuen-wah, Dr Lam Chi-hang, Dr Mak Chee-leung, Dr Lo Veng-cheong, Department of Applied Physics
The Community Weather Information Network (Co-WIN) was established in 2007 under the leadership of Dr Ong in collaboration with the Hong Kong Observatory to provide real-time weather information for the public via the Internet. In addition to weather-data sharing, Co-WIN provides a platform for participating schools and its member institutions to exchange observational experiences and to organize related educational activities. In recognition of its efforts in raising community awareness towards weather and climate, Co-WIN received the prestigious Vaisala Award for Weather Observing and Instrumentation 2010 from the Royal Meteorological Society.
Introduced in 1996, the award scheme serves to motivate staff to excel in their work performance and show appreciation to those with outstanding performance. The scheme adopts a two-tier awards structure, with all nominations preliminarily screened by the selection panels of the Faculty/School Awards and Awards for Non-academic Staff. Exceptionally outstanding staff or teams are recommended for the President's Awards.
 
