
[date]2013.05.21[/date]
[title]PolyU announces the Second Hong Kong SME Business Sustainability Index[/title]
To promote the understanding and adoption of corporate social responsibility as a business model for achieving business sustainability across different sectors in Hong Kong, the Department of Management and Marketing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has compiled the Hong Kong SME Business Sustainability Index for the second year, with the support of the Hong Kong Productivity Council and the Hong Kong Council of Social Service.
The latest Index was announced at a special ceremony held today (21 May) on the PolyU campus. Officiating at the ceremony were Mrs Agnes Mak, Executive Director, Hong Kong Productivity Council; Mr Francis Ngai, Member of the Education and Publicity Sub-Committee, Council for Sustainable Development; Mr Cliff Choi, Business Director (Public Engagement &amp; Partnership), Hong Kong Council of Social Service; Dr Edward Lam, Chairman, Hong Kong Small and Medium Enterprises Development Federation Ltd.; Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU; and Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of Faculty of Business, PolyU.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Tong remarked that since its launch in 2012, the Index has gained increasing recognition from society and the business community, enabling SMEs to take corporate social responsibility seriously and improving their social image. The Index further encourages SMEs to actively introduce business principles and practices of corporate sustainability.
Professor Tong reiterated PolyU's commitment to sustainable development. He said, "Sustainability is one of the major directions of development for PolyU; our Faculty of Business will soon establish a 'Sustainability Management Research Centre' to work jointly with the industrial and commercial sectors to promote research on business sustainability." The Centre will run a Master of Science programme in business sustainability, with the objective of equipping management talent with professional knowledge of corporate social responsibility and thereby developing the sustainability of individual business corporations.
The new version of Index is compiled with information of the top 48 SMEs with proven records of excellent performance in undertaking CSR initiatives in 2012-2013 by assessing their performance and achievement in the following three areas: the value of CSR and sustainable development, management and CSR projects, and positive contribution to economic, social and environmental sustainability.
The mean score of the Index was 62 on a 100-point scale, compared with 58 last year, indicating that local SMEs have entered the second stage of performance from the initial stage of business sustainability. It is encouraging to observe that the scores for CSR values and the assessment of CSR impact were significantly higher than last year, with the former increased from 61.8 to 68.8, while the latter from 45.2 to 51.0, demonstrating SMEs’ general acceptance of the idea of business sustainability and hence their gradual achievement of corporate sustainability.
During the event, the best 48 enterprises in the Index were each presented with a Certificate of Recognition. Representatives of the Index's top five scoring SMEs – Dr Jimmy Lau, CEO of Richform Holdings Limited, Mr Daniel M. Cheng, Managing Director of Dunwell Enviro-Tech (Holdings) Limited, Mr Rainer Sip, Operations Director of Baby Kingdom, Mr Stephen Au, Director of Diving Adventure Limited and Dr Charles Chan, Chairman of Tunbow Group Limited, shared their insights on practising CSR for achieving business sustainability.
