
[date]2013.08.19[/date]
[title]PolyU extends collaboration with GDCIQ to nurture food safety talents[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has extended its collaboration with the Guangdong Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau (GDCIQ) for another five years in nurturing food safety talents for Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland.
Dr Wong Man-kin, Programme Leader of Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Food Safety and Technology and Assistant Professor of PolyU's Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, paid a visit to GDCIQ last Friday (16 August) and signed a new five-year agreement with Mr Xiang Dapeng, Deputy Director of Guangdong Inspection and Quarantine Technology Centre.
PolyU and GDCIQ first started their cooperation in 2010. Since then, the Food Testing Lab of Guangdong Inspection and Quarantine Technology Centre has been serving as an incubation centre to provide intensive training on food testing for 22 students of PolyU’s Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Food Safety and Technology. Through the summer internship programme, students are not only equipped with knowledge of using modern food analysis instruments and the latest development of testing methods, but also given opportunities to gain practical experience of the approaches and procedures of inspection and quarantine for mainland food that are supplied to Hong Kong. Students could apply what they have learnt in lectures and better prepare for their future career.
In addition, experts in Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland have been working closely in facilitating technology transfer and strengthening research collaboration. The rapid testing systems for toxic chemicals jointly developed by PolyU and GDCIQ researchers have already secured funding support from the Bureau of Science and Information Technology of Guangzhou and will be commercialized in the near future.
Both parties hoped that the new agreement would foster a closer collaboration between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland in the teaching and research of food safety as well as development of novel testing technologies. More public seminars will also be organized to encourage information exchange, thereby contributing to the nurturing of professional talents for Greater China.
