
[date]2013.08.15[/date]
[title]PolyU and IBM jointly organize "iRobot Summer Camp" for secondary students[/title]
Jointly organized by the Department of Computing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and IBM China/Hong Kong Limited (IBM) from 12 to 15 August 2013, the "iRobot Summer Camp" has come to a fruitful close today (15 August). More than sixty secondary three to five students have been attracted to the camp to unleash their creativity and arouse their interest in technology and engineering.
During the camp, participants were guided through a well-tailored learning process to acquire basic robotic programming skills and mechanics knowledge as well as enhance their data analysis and problem-solving abilities, using the newly released LEGO MINDSTORMS® EV3 set.
To show to the participants how technology influences and interacts with the natural environment, the summer camp is designed in a way much different from other robotic training camps. A robotic competition was held on the last day of the camp during which all participants were required to design and assemble programmable robots in an "interactive virtual village" setting which simulated the natural environment. In groups of two or three, their robots have to complete assigned tasks such as collecting wood pieces and monitoring a windmill within two minutes. Moreover, they have to collect "virtual climatic data" and learn to respond to other animal robots in the virtual village to improve their own robots' performance.
In addition to the competition, the camp also featured a series of talks, workshops on the latest robotic technology and visits to laboratories where students could broaden their exposure.
Dr Simon Shiu, project leader of the iRobot Summer Camp, said, "We believe this innovative robotic summer camp helps foster students' creativity, technical skill and interpersonal ability which we think are essential in the knowledge-based economy. The camp also allows students to understand fully how technology can influence and interact with the natural environment."
"Through the camp we aim to show that technology and engineering are interesting and relevant to our daily lives, and are key enablers of innovations that make a difference and propel social and economic advancement," said Samson Tai, Chief Technologist of IBM China/Hong Kong Limited. "We hope the students would find that working with innovation and technology is one of the most interesting and exciting places to be, and can help make our cities better and smarter."
 
