
[date]2013.07.31[/date]
[title]PolyU graduate snatches the crown of "Discovering Qing-Fashion Design Competition"[/title]
With her unique design that fuses ancient and modern elements, Miss Fiona Febrina, 2011 graduate of the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has won the laurel of the "Discovering Qing - Fashion Design Competition" associated with the city’s most spectacular exhibition on Royal attire of the Qing Dynasty.
The announcement of winners was made yesterday (30 July) at the opening ceremony of "The Splendours of Royal Costume: Qing Court Attire" exhibition at the Hong Kong Museum of History. The first runner-up went to Chloe Sung, student of the Hong Kong Design Institute; whereas the second runner-up went to Carla Chan Ki-yan, design trainee of a swimwear company. The three winning outfits were showcased individually by catwalk at the opening ceremony.
"Discovering Qing – Fashion Design Competition" is one of major highlights of "The Splendours of Royal Costume: Qing Court Attire" exhibition, which is the largest of its kind ever launched by The Palace Museum outside the Chinese mainland. PolyU ITC is pleased to support this meaningful activity through co-organizing the competition with Hong Kong Museum of History, The Palace Museum and Hong Kong Design Centre.
The competition which aims to cultivate the imagination and creativity of the local young fashion design students and graduates and enhance their understanding of the royal attire of the Qing dynasty has received overwhelming response of over 160 entries submitted by students and graduates from different fashion schools in Hong Kong. The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order of last name):
Mr Barney Cheng, Renowned Fashion Designer
Ms Vera Cheng, Fashion Editor, City Magazine
Ms Janet Cheung, Member of Board of Directors, Hong Kong Design Centre
Ms Meiyi Cheung, Executive Committee Member, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Ms Susanna Lai Kuen Siu, Chief Curator, Hong Kong Museum of History
The champion was awarded a trophy and cash prize of $30,000. Her winning entry as well as the outstanding works of the 19 finalists will be displayed at the "The Splendours of Royal Costume: Qing Court Attire" exhibition at the Hong Kong Museum of History from today (31 July) until 7 October 2013.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
