
[date]2013.08.23[/date]
[title]PolyU engineering students shine in national competition[/title]
A team of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Department of Mechanical Engineering students has recently won the Grand Prize in the seventh "Mitsubishi Electric Automation Cup" National Automation Contest and Automation Innovative Design Contest for College Students held in Nanjing, China. The PolyU team competed against 66 teams from other universities on the Chinese mainland and snatched the top honour.
Co-organized by the Chinese Association of Automation and Mitsubishi Electric (China) Co. Ltd. and with the support of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the contesting teams were requested to design and build a set of innovative devices or models which could make use of relevant automation products of Mitsubishi Electric. Based on the theme "eManufacturing", the designed products had to follow the development trend of automation technology and could put to good use. 
The PolyU team comprising eight mechanical engineering students had designed an "eManufacturing Line for Canned Plant" which integrated enterprise information management systems and Factory Automation (FA) control systems with data sharing among the Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system and the FA field control system. 
Their winning entry would allow customers to order canned plants according to their own preferences (e.g. selection of plant species and patterns). The order would then send to the ERP order management system which would generate manufacturing plan based on the Bill of Material (BOM) and the manufacturing process. Based on the manufacturing plan, the MES will control a series of machines to execute manufacturing processes, including arraying recycled cream cans, placing soil, seeds and fertilizer into the can, packaging, and sorting the finished products. In other words, the system automates the manufacturing processing with customization.
As the Grand Prize winner, the eight students have been awarded a special trip to visit Mitsubishi Electric's manufacturing facilities in Japan.
The Mitsubishi Electric Automation Cup was first launched by Mitsubishi Electric (China) Co. Ltd. in 2007. The contest not only provides an innovative and practical platform for students to realize their creative ideas with the advanced Mitsubishi Electric automation products, but also improves students' abilities of automation product application and enhances their practical skills by applying what they have. The annual Mitsubishi Electric Automation Cup is further divided into two contests â”€ Automation Innovative Design Contest and Automation System Application Contest, which take place in alternate years. 
