
[date]2013.07.11[/date]
[title]PolyU organizes inaugural Forum on MOOCs in Hong Kong[/title]
Organized by the Knowledge Management and Innovation Research Center (KMIRC) and supported by the Faculty of Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), the inaugural Forum on Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) was held on PolyU campus on 4th July 203. This half-day forum has successfully drawn over 120 attendees from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and Taiwan as well as representatives from various universities in Thailand and Malaysia.
Among the invited experts and speakers were Dr Akiba Covitz from EdX in the USA, Dr Loretta O'Donnell from University of New South Wales in Australia and Dr Carsten Ullrich from DKFI in Germany.  Professor WB Lee, Director of the KMIRC gave a warm welcome to all the Forum delegates and Ms Marjorie Yang, PolyU's Council Chairman, delivered a thought-provoking presentation on the background and significance of MOOCs and how they could re-define the future of education.
MOOC is a raving topic among educationalists and practitioners overseas and this inaugural forum at PolyU has made a good start.  The list of speakers invited, including MOOC provider from universities at various stages of the MOOC journey, senior E-Learning university administrator, academics, and E-Learning instructional designers, represented different groups of stakeholder in the field of MOOC. Some of the commonly concerned issues, including how to charge for MOOCs, resourcing needs for preparing a MOOC subject, how to maintain quality and conduct e-Assessments, and how to leverage on MOOCs to enhance student learning outcomes for existing subjects, were also addressed at the Forum.
A panel discussion chaired by Prof Eric Tsui was held with all the speakers plus Professor Maurits Van Rooijen from London School of Business and Finance in UK, Dr Naubaha Sharif from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and Dr Iain Doherty from University of Hong Kong. During the panel discussion, a wide range of topics were covered, including the origin and societal impact of MOOCs, definitions and types of MOOCs, decision criteria for embarking on a MOOC journey, what's involved in preparing a MOOC course, emerging business models, sustainability, how to design a course for MOOC delivery, and experience sharing from Hong Kong's first MOOC professor. This thought-provoking Forum has generated a lot of discussion and positive feedbacks from the audience.
