
[date]2013.04.24[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Jury Session of International Fashion Student Competition 2013[/title]
A total of 365 students representing 120 universities and schools from 37 countries have registered for the International Fashion Student Competition 2013, the world's largest fashion competition for college students organized by the Arts of Fashion Foundation.
The First-Round Jury Session took place for the very first time in Hong Kong at the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on 22 April 2013, during which 50 creative and innovative projects that best represented the set theme "Resilience" were selected. Many prominent international and local fashion educators have been invited as judges at the First-Round Jury Session. They were:
Minna Cheung, Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, Fashion and Clothing Design Department, Institute of Design and Fine Arts, Lahti University of Applied Sciences, Finland
Seema Mahajan, Assistant Professor and Course Leader, MA Fashion and Textiles Design Department, Pearl Academy, New Delhi, India
Brigida Ribeiros, Assistant Professor, Fashion and Textile Design Department, Instituto Polytecnico de Castelo Branco, Portugal
Raymond Au, Professor and Associate Head, Institute of Textiles and Clothing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Bingbing Du, Associate Professor, Fashion Design Department, School of Fashion Art and Engineering, The Beijing Institute of Fashion Technology
Li Li, Assistant Professor, Institute of Textiles and Clothing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Sung Hyon Kim, Assistant Professor, Fashion Design Department, Samsung Art and Design Institute, Seoul
Sarah Charles, Principal Lecturer and Course Leader, Fashion Design and Technology Department, Arts University of Bournemouth, U.K.
Lynn Blake, Associate Professor and Department Chair, Fashion Program, Lasell College, Massachusetts, U.S.
Radley Cramer, Assistant Professor and Program Director, Fashion Program, School of Communications and the Arts, Marist College, New York, U.S.
Nathalie Doucet, President and Director, Collaborative Educational Initiatives and Research, The Arts of Fashion Foundation, California, U.S.
Apart from coherence with the theme, the judging of entries is also based on skill level, creativity and artful expressiveness.
The 50 shortlisted projects will enter the final round of the event to be held in the last week of October 2013 to compete for scholarships to the Arts of Fashion 4-week Summer Master Class in Paris and apprenticeship opportunities with international prestigious fashion houses.
According to the organizer, the fashion competition exists to promote and reward creativity and inventiveness, discover young talent and facilitate careers, enriching contacts and exchanges between different countries, schools and universities, and to foster new relationships between those from different industries and fields.
The full list of finalists and participating schools can be found on the Arts of Fashion Foundation website: www.arts-of-fashion.org on 1 May 2013.
Following the First-Round Jury Session was a "Fashion.edu" seminar held on 23 April during which world renowned fashion professors, industry practitioners and professional designers presented their research works and designs to their peers.
About the Arts of Fashion Competition
The Arts of Fashion Foundation Fashion Student Competition was created in 2001 in the U.S. This global contest was first introduced in Japan in 1982 and has grown steadily over 23 years.  Since then, the Arts of Fashion Foundation, a public American nonprofit 501(C)(3), brought this international competition to the U.S. and has continued to make it a unique and authentic annual fashion rendezvous for students, schools and fashion professionals from all over the world to celebrate creativity in fashion.
The Arts of Fashion Foundation has evolved to become an internationally-recognized organization dedicated to encourage and support creative designers and to introduce audiences to their unique work. Through its different programs, the foundation is committed to advancing the work of visionaries and risk-taking creative fashion designers. This Premier International Student Fashion Competition takes place each fall during the annual Arts of Fashion Symposium and is hosted every year by a different university or school and their fashion department.
