
[date]2013.09.03[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Design launches 2013 Annual Show at new building designed by Zaha Hadid[/title]
The School of Design at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is staging its Annual Show for the very first time at its new headquarters in the University's Jockey Club Innovation Tower --- the city's first permanent architecture designed by world-renowned architect Zaha Hadid. This event also marked the soft opening of this new building which will come into use by phases starting from the 2013-2014 academic year.
The Show was opened today (3 September) by Guest of Honour Mr Eric Yim, Chairman and CEO of POSH Office Systems; Ir Professor Ping-kong Alexander Wai, Vice President (Research Development); and Professor Cees de Bont, Dean of PolyU's School of Design. Themed "Design Moves", the Annual Show captures the excitement of its relocation from its old premises (in Core A on campus) to the new space; young talents moving forward in their creative endeavors; and the vision for design to drive positive changes in our lives. 
According to the organizer, the visual identity of the Annual Show goes back to basic by using black and white for all publicity materials, reflecting a new beginning and a major milestone for the PolyU Design. The use of bold and customized typography echoes the fluid lines of the new architecture.
The Annual Show continues to cover the design disciplines of advertising, digital media, environment &amp; interior, industrial &amp; product, visual communication.  A number of designs centered around the creation of pleasant and enriching experiences, while others look at enhancing lifestyles through products, facilities, transportation, environmental devices, and so on.  Some of the highlighted projects include:
The Lam Lineage Genealogy by Lam Oi Keat - Using a circular diagram to emphasize Reunion and Connection, the "Lam Lineage Genealogy" design project provides a new navigation experience to "interact" with readers while they put their hands on the book to find their roots.
The Anxiety of Influence by Jonathan Mak - A series of publication and an interactive presentation that depict the creative journey of a designer and the anxiety of striving for originality.  The project title is from a book by Harold Bloom, who believed poets go through 6 stages of struggling with the fear that everything has been said by the poets before them.
My Dear World by Vivian Cheung - This advertising campaign project began with a study on why consumers buy counterfeit products online.  This campaign aims to tackle diminishing integrity of the citizens.  The "deer" is used as a symbol of honesty with its grace and beauty, and its uncanny sense of where to find fresh green pastures the earth provides.
The Wish for Everything to Remain Unchanged (advertising campaign) by Chiu Sin-ting - Research showed that most of the middle-aged men are facing dilemma in career and life, which can be better described as suffering from the mid-life crisis.  They wish everything in lives went back to the good old days. This is actually what the subject of this advertising campaign for a local brand. 
Falling Star (animation short) by Benny Fung, Joanne Ma and George Chan – The storyline is set in a secret land called Star Town far above the Earth.  People in that town worship the stars and wish they can become one someday.  The story tells how Angus, who's fascinated by the Earth, takes on a journey to see the planet and becoming an eternal star in the end.
Hello!  Miss Alice (short film) by Lam Cheuk-ying and Dorothy Tsang – It is a light-hearted romantic comedy about a sleepwalking girl Miss Alice and an insomniac boy Mr Apple.  The story began when Alice, in her sleepwalking state, made a random call to Mr Apple who thought he was at a food kiosk.  The story conveys how love is unexpected; the importance of grabbing the opportunity and how love has to be reciprocated and mutual to be called love.
Kowloon East Mobility by Samantha Ho - A car sharing system, ALLEYER is a 2 seater electric vehicle that can be rented with a Hong Kong ID card and an Octopus card.  As a hybrid vehicle, a personal transporter, and bicycle, ALLIEYER is slim and small yet stable enough for the narrow alleyways.  Two in-wheel motors allow a smaller turning circle through a leaning system.
Airy Compact Sewing Machine by Kate Chiu - A compact, portable, fully functional sewing machine.  Airy is designed for young users who wish to enjoy sewing but not attracted to existing bulky products on the market.  Airy is compact, but designed to be stable - thanks to the case cover that can be transform into a large sewing platform, creating a comfortable working space.
MFit+  by Abbie Tsang - "The city becomes a gym" is the vision of MFit+.  The exercise facility design can be used in locations such as market places, car parks or shopping malls.  Using traditional green market stall as a starting point and an initial location, the operation allows users to do light exercising during breaks in their daily routines.  The energy generated from the exertions is designed to be converted into electricity to assist with powering the surrounding environment.
Keep Changing by  Michel Chung - This project aims to help Cha Kwo Ling Village, described as one of the last squatter villages in Hong Kong, in sustaining their tradition and lifestyle through participatory design.  The design focuses on the three aspects of economy, building, and social to design different tools with villagers to improve their lifestyles and solve different problems.
The Show is open free of charge to members of the public and anyone interested to get a glimpse of the gorgeous Innovation Tower before its grand opening. Admission is free.
The opening dates and hours are as follows: 3 September to 22 September 2013 11:30 AM – 8:30 PM (daily) Jockey Club Innovation Tower, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon
