
[date]2013.05.31[/date]
[title]PolyU's performance in civil engineering ranks among top 20 in the world[/title]
In the latest Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings by Subject, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has made a great leap to move up from the 50th place in 2012 to the 16th place in 2013 in the discipline of civil and structural engineering.
More impressively, PolyU tops the world in terms of the two objective research performance indicators ' citations per paper and the H-index which measures both the scientific productivity of its researchers and the apparent scientific impact of its research.
Professor Jin-Guang Teng, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Environment, was pleased to note that PolyU has been ranked among the world's best institutions in the subject area of civil and structural engineering and on par with such as Imperial College, University of California at Berkeley, and the University of Tokyo. He further explained that the subject area is broadly defined by the ranking methodology to include such sub-disciplines as environmental engineering and construction management. The ranking is therefore a significant recognition for the hard work of colleagues not only in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering but also in the entire Faculty.
"I would like to thank all colleagues of the Faculty, as well as friends and colleagues within and outside the university, for this achievement," said Professor Teng. "We will not rest on our laurels; knowing where our strengths and weaknesses lie, we will do our best to further improve our performance in the future," he added.
The Faculty of Construction and Environment at PolyU is the only one of its kind in Hong Kong that is fully devoted to supporting the advancement of construction industry. It is home to 110 academic staff members at Assistant Professor and above levels who work with nearly 400 full-time researchers (including MPhil and PhD students) on a wide range of problems to address some of the major issues facing the society such as building energy efficacy, air quality and solid waste management.
The Faculty's research reputation is evidenced by its success in securing competitive funding from the General Research Fund (formerly known as the Competitive Earmarked Research Grants) of the Hong Kong Research Grants Council (RGC) and attracting the best and brightest PhD students supported by the Hong Kong PhD Fellowship Scheme. The number of grants they won has consistently been around or above 40% of all grants awarded by the Hong Kong Research Grants Council in this category since 1994/1995. The four departments of the Faculty have also attracted 27 PhD Fellowship recipients as compared to 16 who have joined the four other civil engineering/construction departments in sister institutions since the launch of the PhD Fellowship Scheme in 2009.
Launched in 2011, the annual QS World University Rankings by Subject is a comprehensive guide to a range of popular subject areas. The rankings series reveals the top 200 universities in the world for 30 individual subjects.
