
[date]2013.08.13[/date]
[title]PolyU Emeritus Professor to be honoured by renowned international optometry award[/title]
Professor George Woo, Visiting Chair Professor of Optometry and Emeritus Professor of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)’s School of Optometry, will be bestowed with the Essilor Award for Outstanding International Contributions to Optometry by the American Academy of Optometry (AAO).
Professor George Woo graduated with a Doctor of Optometry (OD) degree from the University of Waterloo in 1964 and completed his Ph.D. study at Indiana University in 1970. After serving at different prestigious universities in Canada, USA, UK and Australia, Professor Woo joined the then Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1987, and contributed to the development of one of the best optometry programmes in the world.
His research interests are in vision rehabilitation, psychophysics of vision, myopia, contrast sensitivity function, visual optics, vision of the aged and photometry. Professor Woo has published extensively in top journals and has been bestowed with many academic awards and distinction. Professor Woo is a strong advocate and pioneer leader of promoting primary eye care in Hong Kong. With his extensive knowledge in health services and social care, he was appointed as the Dean of PolyU’s Faculty of Health and Social Sciences during the period of 1997 to 2004 and was re-appointed the same post from 2008 to 2011. His highly respected expertise and drive to improving education, research and practice in optometry led to his presidency or chairmanship of several professional bodies and membership of numerous committees in Hong Kong, Chinese Mainland and worldwide. Internationally, Professor Woo is the former President of the World Council of Optometry and Immediate Past President of the Asia Pacific Council of Optometry. His vision is to unite optometrists and related professionals to treat and prevent blindness all over the world, especially in the Chinese Mainland.
The AAO was founded in 1922 with a mission to promote the art and science of vision care through lifelong learning. The American Academy of Optometry - Essilor Award for Outstanding International Contributions to Optometry recognizes an individual, individuals or organizations for extraordinary international contributions to optometry or international eye care. The AAO’s award recognizes Professor Woo’s outstanding leadership in the establishment of Hong Kong’s sole optometry programme and his significant contributions to the development of optometry in the Pacific Rim and promoting optometry throughout the world.
Professor Woo will receive the award at the AAO’s Academy 2013 Seattle to be held on 25 October 2013 in Seattle, Washington in USA.
 
