
[date]2013.07.25[/date]
[title]Secondary students showcase innovations at PolyU Engineering Summer Camp[/title]
More than 100 secondary students took part in a three-day summer camp organized by the Faculty of Engineering of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 23 to 25 July 2013.
Themed "Green Living", the PolyU Engineering Summer Camp sought to enhance participants' understanding of various engineering disciplines and professions, as well as to develop their design concept and creativity, improve their communication and leadership skills.
Professor H. C. Man, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Engineering, said, "In today's knowledge-based economy, we believe that innovation is the key to our future. In view of that, the camp consists of specially-designed skill-based projects, industrial visits and other activities which aim at promoting students' learning of engineering knowledge and stimulating their imagination and flair. Moreover, students can gain a better understanding of planning for further studies and future careers."
The summer camp came to a climax when the winning teams of Engineering Project Challenges presented their creative work before today's closing ceremony. The engineering projects included Solar Amphibious Vehicle, Headphone Amplifier in a Candy Box, iPhone Apps Design, Muscle Signal Driven Fan and Competition on Logistics Simulation in Hong Kong. The judgment was based on the design, innovation and application of engineering knowledge in their respective projects. Besides, all summer camp participants took part in a voting to choose the "Best Showcase Presentation Award".
Ir K. K. Lo, project leader of Solar Amphibious Car, said, "The project introduces mechanical engineering concepts to students. The winning team has applied what they have learned with creativity, which is essential to youngsters facing the competitive world nowadays."
Dr Cheung King-hong, project leader of iPhone Apps Design, said, "Writing iPhone apps is an interesting topic to the students, they are eager to learn more about concept development. The challenge provides them with a chance to know the crucial factors that lead to a popular and winning apps. The apps designed by the students can be installed in their iPhones or iPad, which they can show to their family, friends and teachers."
The participants were given a chance to interact with renowned business leaders and professors by joining the High Table Dinner. In addition, the Faculty has arranged field visits to leading corporations in town, namely Agilent Technologies Hong Kong Ltd., Civil Aviation Department of HKSAR Government, Dah Chong Hong (Motor Service Centre), Department of Prosthetics and Orthotics of Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Hong Kong Applied Science and Technology Research Institute Company Limited, Nano and Advanced Materials Institute, Ngong Ping 360 and Shatin Sewage Plant of Drainage Services Department.
This is the seventh Engineering Summer Camp for secondary school students, organized by the University's Faculty of Engineering. Since its launch in 2007, the camp has been warmly received by participating schools and students.
