
[date]2013.05.14[/date]
[title]PolyU launches Executive Diploma in Accountancy Programme[/title]
The Institute of Advanced Executive Education (IAEE) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is launching a new Executive Diploma in Accountancy programme. This is a fast track conversion programme accredited by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (HKICPA), and designed for non-accounting and/or non-business degree holders who wish to pursue careers in accounting and financial services. The non-credit bearing programme also caters for participants who wish to enrol for single subject(s) to meet specific examination requirements for HKICPA Qualification Programme (QP) admission.
Professor Judy Tsui, PolyU Vice President (International and Executive Education) said, 'The Executive Diploma in Accountancy Programme aims at providing those who are not accounting graduates with the essential knowledge in accounting and finance. Upon completion of this programme, participants are equipped with relevant knowledge and skills to further develop their career in the accountancy field, and study the HKICPA QP - a world-class programme and one of the most widely recognized accounting qualifications in the world. QP qualified accountants are recognized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Scotland and South Africa for membership admission purpose, as well as by the CPA Institutes in the Mainland and United States for significant examination exemptions, making it a highly portable qualification globally.' PolyU has been running conversion programmes for more than 10 years. Ms Grace Guo, Greater China Learning &amp; Development Leader, Ernst &amp; Young, remarked on the partnership with PolyU, 'For more than a decade, our firm has been working with PolyU to equip our recruits from other disciplines with core accountancy knowledge and prepare them for admission to the HKICPA QP. Dedicated teaching staff of PolyU have provided a professional and valuable learning experience for our people, which contributes to our long standing partnership.'
Ms Janey Lai, Audit Learning Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, also said, 'Since 2012, we have closely worked with PolyU to provide intensive conversion programme for our staff who are not from an accounting background. We are impressed by the dedicated teaching and support offered by PolyU. Our employees are able to gain essential accounting knowledge and skills to step into their work and at the same time fulfil the HKICPA entry requirements quickly to study the CPA QP.'Mrs Georgina Chan, Director of IAEE, further explained, 'PolyU is pleased to have partnered with different accounting firms in providing conversion programmes. IAEE brings together expertise from PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance and experienced practitioners in launching this new Executive Diploma in Accountancy. We look forward to continuing to nurture more graduates from other disciplines and preparing them to meet the HKICPA QP admission and be groomed to become successful accountants.'
Information sessions will be held in May and June to provide interested participants with details of entry requirements, programme structure, teaching faculty and other useful information of the programme. These sessions are free of charge but reservation is highly suggested. Session 1: 16 May 2013 ThursdaySession 2: 23 May 2013 ThursdaySession 3: 3 June 2013 Monday
Time : 7:00 ' 8:00 p.m.Venue : Room M1410, Li Ka Shing Tower, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung HomFor enquiries and reservations, please contact 3400 8476 or email to: iaee.enquiry@polyu.edu.hk
For information and application form, please visit the website at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/iaee/en-US/programmes/detail/6.
The closing date for registration is 7 June and classes are expected to start on 2 July. The application fee of $500 is waived for early bird enrolment received on or before 16 May 2013.
About The Institute of Advanced Executive EducationThe Institute of Advanced Executive Education (IAEE) at PolyU is established to develop the University's advanced executive education and provide interdisciplinary courses. IAEE emphasizes four elements of 'Interdisciplinary, Innovative, Integration and International' in developing its programmes. Through IAEE programmes, participants learn to generate innovative and meaningful solutions to business issues that add value to their organizations and the community. Besides experienced professors and faculty staff from PolyU, IAEE also invites international professors and relevant experts to teach in its programmes.
 
 
