
[date]2013.06.26[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage Fashion Show 2013[/title]
Twenty-four graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at the PolyU Fashion Show 2013 held today (26 June) at the Hong Kong Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre. The graduates are either from the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles or the Higher Diploma Scheme in Fashion and Textile Studies.
Over 2,400 industrialists, artists, fashion designers and fashion bloggers were attracted to the Show.
The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order):
Mr Silvio Chan, Creative Director, Alternatif Fashion Workshop
Ms Janet Cheung, Vice Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Ms Lu Lu Cheung, Creative Director, Rolls Group Limited
Mr Alex Lai, Country Manager, THE WOOLMARK COMPANY
Mr Jack Ma, Assistant Design Director, LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited
Ms Ronnie Tung, Design Manager of China Retail, Esquel Group
Ms Vincy Wong, Chief Designer of Jessica, Toppy Co. (HK) Ltd.
Mr Gene Yang, Vice President and General Manager of North Asia, Avery Dennison  Hong Kong B.V.
Mr Eddie Yeung, Vice-Chairman, The Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association of The  Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Mr Gary Yiu, Executive Director and Managing Director, Milan Station
Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the fashion show, the students also competed for the following prizes (Please refer to the List of award winners):
Overall Grand Awards - Winner, First Runner-up and Second Runner-up
Travelling Scholarship to Denmark sponsored by Saga Furs of Scandinavia
Best Embellishment Award sponsored by Avery Dennison Hong Kong B.V.
Outstanding Menswear Award sponsored by Esquel Group
Best Use of Synthetic Leather Award sponsored by LONG TAI HONG (Holding) Limited
Best Handbag Mix and Match Award sponsored by Milan Station
Inspiration Award sponsored by The Textiles and Clothing Alumni Association of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Best Use of Decorative Application Award sponsored by Toppy Co. (HK) Ltd.
Best Use of Australian Merino Award sponsored by THE WOOLMARK COMPANY
Australia Study Tour Scholarship sponsored by Flinders Merino
Creativity Award sponsored by Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
