
[date]2013.05.22[/date]
[title]PolyU stages Knitwear Fashion Show[/title]
The creative flair and design talent of graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) have won applause from the industry at the annual Knitwear Fashion Show held today (22 May) at The Mira Hong Kong.  
With the concerted effort of ITC design students, various knitwear producers and yarn suppliers, the annual Knitwear Fashion Show has showcased 20 collections of four outfits from 20 graduating students majoring in knitwear design. The raw materials and manufacturing techniques for the show were sponsored by knitwear producers and yarn suppliers.
Professor John H. Xin, Head of ITC, said, "The sweater industry is an important branch of the fashion business, especially in Hong Kong. The knitwear they produce is quite different from other fashion products in terms of design and manufacture. It is also worth noting that dedicated fashion show for knitwear is rare and our Knitwear Fashion Show presented by ITC is one of the very few regular events of this kind around the world. This fashion show not only demonstrates the ability and creativity of the knitwear design students, but also furthers the collaboration between the industry and ITC."
Mr Michael Yap, Chief Executive Officer of Rose Knitting (Asia) Limited and Title Sponsor of the Show, remarked, "Being a stakeholder of the knitwear industry, Rose Knitting (Asia) Limited has great pleasure to provide learning opportunities for PolyU students majoring in knitwear design and technology. Students are able to discuss with our experienced designers and master freely on their designs and ideas. This Knitwear Fashion Show is a good learning experience for the students. Furthermore, it allows more industrialists to meet these local future talents. As the quality of the graduates' design is getting higher, the local knitwear industry is moving towards a path of unique and innovative design, which in turn underpins future growth and development of the industry."
The Show has won continuous support from the industry. On this auspicious occasion, Professor Xin is pleased to announce that Guangdong United Progress Wooltex Hong Kong Office Limited (UPW) has pledged a generous donation to ITC in support of the next Knitwear Fashion Show.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
