
[date]2013.07.09[/date]
[title]PolyU joins hands with CUHK to promote local nutrition development[/title]
The Food Safety and Technology Research Centre of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Centre for Nutritional Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong jointly organized a Joint Symposium on 'Can Foods Change Your Health?' from 5 to 6 July. A major collaboration between the two centres, the symposium has provided a platform for promoting nutrition development in Hong Kong.
The two-day event has brought together some 300 local and overseas participants to exchange views and insights on medicine, nutrition, food science and public health. In his welcoming remarks, Professor Wong Wing-tak, Head of PolyU's Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology and Director of Food Safety and Technology Research Centre, hoped the event would lead to a better understanding of human health, nutrition, policy and education, and more importantly, promote healthier lifestyle in the society.
A Satellite Meeting themed 'Applying nutritional knowledge in daily life' was held on 5 July on the PolyU campus. Three leading academics in food and nutritional sciences were invited to share their ideas on topics related to Chocolate and Health, Breast Milk Feeding, Genetic Variants, Nutritional Factors and Obesity Related Metabolic Abnormalities. They were: Distinguished Professor Judith Stern and Professor Bruce German of the University of California Davis, US; and Professor Xu Lin of Shanghai Institute of Nutritional Sciences of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. In addition, Professor Yang Yue-xin of National Institute of Nutrition and Food Safety also shared her views on nutrition policy development.
On the second day, a Joint Symposium was held at the Postgraduate Education Centre, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin during which government officials in Hong Kong, distinguished scholars from the Chinese mainland, Singapore, US and UK delivered talks on dietary reference intakes development in China and US; dietary salt, health and policy; lipids and human health; update on prebiotics and glycemic index development, health impacts and weight management.
The organizers expressed special thanks to K. C. Wong Education Foundation Conference Sponsorship Programme for supporting the Satellite Meeting and Joint Symposium.
For more details, please visit the following websites:
Satellite Meeting: http://myweb.polyu.edu.hk/~bcfstrc/index_files/joint_symposium_2013.htm
Joint Symposium: http://www.mect.cuhk.edu.hk/FoodHealth/p1.htm
 
 
