
[date]2013.06.13[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports[/title]
More than 120 delegates from 18 countries and territories gathered at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) from 3 to 5 June to attend the Sixth International Forum on Shipping, Ports and Airports (IFSPA) 2013 organized by PolyU's C.Y. Tung International Centre for Maritime Studies and Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies. This year, the theme of the Conference was "Trade, Supply Chains Activities and Transport: Contemporary Logistics and Maritime Issues".
The Conference was officially opened on 3 June by the Honourable Frankie Yick Chi-ming, Legislative Councillor; Mr Chun Lin Wang, Consultant of Pacific Basin Shipping Limited; Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of the Faculty of Business; and Professor Li Chung-Lun, Head of the Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies.
IFSPA has provided a platform for international academics and industrial practitioners to share and exchange views on issues related to maritime, logistics and aviation. This year's event served as an industry-wide initiative to debate new challenges and opportunities of current economic and financial issues. It advocated interdisciplinary business approaches to maximize global competitiveness and economic benefits among the transport logistics and trading industries worldwide.
The Forum comprised three Keynote Sessions, one Industrial Session, two Special Sessions and 17 Parallel Sessions. During the event, world-famous scholars and industry leaders shared with participants their insights on issues relevant to maritime and trade economics, policy and management. The participants came from different parts of the world including Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand, the U.K., and the U.S.
A special session titled "Strategy for Container Security" was held to offer a systemic view of the concept of container security which demanded contributing perspectives from stakeholders occupying different parts of the system of global container trade. Another special session titled "Advanced Topics in Logistics Research" was taken place in collaboration with the Logistics Research Centre of PolyU's Department of Logistics and Maritime Studies. During this session, new logistics and supply chain modeling research findings were presented.
For further information on the event, please visit its official website at http://www.icms.polyu.edu.hk/ifspa2013/
