
[date]2013.06.24[/date]
[title]PolyU and Tung Wah Group of Hospitals launch Comprehensive Eye Examination and Ocular Health Project for the Elderly[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (TWGHs) have jointly launched a comprehensive eye examination initiative called "Smart Eye Outreach Project for the Elderly" to provide high quality comprehensive vision care for the elderly living in Kowloon City District.
Due to limited mobility and concern for transportation, a lot of underprivileged elderly in the community do not receive comprehensive eye examination regularly or have never received any eye care. PolyU's School of Optometry and TWGHs therefore jointly launch the "Smart Eye Outreach Project for The Elderly" by setting up a comprehensive eye examination outreach platform at TWGHs Wong Cho Tong Social Service Building in Homantin. TWGHs will sponsor residents of Kowloon City and members of the elderly community centre or care and attention home located in the same building who are eligible for receiving complimentary eye check-ups.
Addressing the launching ceremony held today (24 June), Dr Ina Chan, Chairman of TWGHs, said, "TWGHs strives to serve the needs of the elderly. This is the second time that our Group partners with PolyU to provide eye checks for the elderly. This time we take a step forward by setting up an outreach comprehensive eye examination platform at our premises. Eligible elderly can receive comprehensive eye examination conveniently for early detection of eye problems and timely intervention if necessary." Dr Chan also extended gratitude to the volunteers who escort the elderly to the platform for comprehensive eye examination.
Professor Carly Lam, Head of PolyU's School of Optometry, remarked that elderly will develop different eye problems due to ageing. "If their eye problems are left unattended, not only the daily life of the elderly will be affected, but will also cause accidents. Comprehensive eye examinations by professional optometrists enable the elderly to detect early if he/she has vision regression or other hidden diseases. Appropriate follow-ups could enhance the living standard of the elderly."
Professor Lam added, "We believe that teaching, research and service are interrelated. This is the School's first project to take an outreach approach to serve the elderly in need. It allows our students to serve the elderly with their professional knowledge. These invaluable clinical experiences will also equip them to become competent healthcare professionals who understand more about the needs of the service targets."
PolyU School of Optometry will arrange eye examination equipment and facilities to be set up at the service platform of TWGHs Wong Cho Tong Social Service Building in Homantin. TWGHs will sponsor 300 elderly from low-income families or those who are currently subsidized by the Government's Comprehensive Social Security Assistance Scheme to take part in the project. Registered optometrists and Optometry students will provide comprehensive eye examination service which includes vision assessment, refractive status and ocular health and recommend follow-ups or referrals if necessary.
About Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (TWGHs)
Since its establishment in 1870, Tung Wah has been all along upholding its mission "To heal the sick and to relieve the distressed; to care for the elderly and to rehabilitate the disabled; to promote education and to nurture youngsters; and to raise the infants and to guide the children." Nowadays, Tung Wah has become the largest charitable organization in Hong Kong. For over a hundred years, Tung Wah's medical and health, education and community services have developed rapidly to fulfill the needs of the society and to provide high quality services at low rates. Today, Tung Wah operates over 264 services centres, including hospitals and health services and Chinese medicine services centres, education services centres, community services centres that cover elderly, youth and family, rehabilitation and traditional services, whilst the Tung Wah Museum strives to promote, restore and preserve the heritage and relics of Tung Wah.
About PolyU's School of Optometry
The School of Optometry of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University is the only institution in Hong Kong offering the Honours Degree Programme in Optometry leading to the professional qualification as an Optometrist in Hong Kong. An optometrist is a primary healthcare provider to promote ocular health through diagnosis and provision of suitable treatment. The optometry programme offered by the School is being regarded as one of the best in Asia.
