
[date]2013.06.21[/date]
[title]PolyU is Founding Member of the Alliance of Chinese and European Business Schools[/title]
The Alliance of Chinese and European Business Schools (ACE) was officially inaugurated in France on 31 May 2013. The Faculty of Business (FB) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is one of the 20 founding members of this alliance with EFMD (European Foundation for Management Development) as the patron.
Dr Alison E. Lloyd, Associate Dean (External Relations and Development) of the Faculty, is delighted with the exchange opportunities the Alliance offers to FB's faculty and students.  "The initiative enables member schools to form a strong collaborating network and brings together abundant resources for academics and students. It will also facilitate internationalization," said Dr Lloyd.
Dr Leung Man-kwong, Associate Dean (Academic Support), said that joint activities of ACE will bring stimulating ideas and benefits to enrich FB's research and education." New knowledge and fresh eyes will help us update and improve our academic programmes to meet the real needs of the world," he commented.
ACE focuses on academic excellence and the synergy between research and education to better prepare the next generation of executives for future challenges. Among the planned activities are a joint programme under the ACE label, exchanges of professors and students, projects and research conferences and development of international skills modules.
Founding members of ACE include: 
Antwerp Management School, Belgium
Beijing Jiaotong University, China
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China
EBS Business School, Germany
ESSCA School of Management, France
Gothenburg University, Sweden
Harbin Institute of Technology, China
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong
Leeds University, UK
National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
Northwestern Polytechnical University, China
MIP Politecnico di Milano, Italy
Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University, Netherlands
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, China
Southwestern University of Finance and Economics, China
Universidade Catolica Lisbon, Portugal
University of Ljubljana, Slovenia
University of Macau, Macau
VSE University of Economics Prague, Czech Republic
Xiamen University, China
