
[date]2013.05.16[/date]
[title]PolyU and Yonyou to set up the first joint laboratory in Hong Kong[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Yonyou Software Co., Ltd. (Yonyou) today (16 May) announced the opening of a joint laboratory on smart cloud computing and enterprise management solutions. This is the first time ever in Hong Kong that Yonyou joins hands with a local tertiary institution to bring about a new infrastructure supporting research and teaching in these areas.
The opening ceremony of the Joint Lab was officiated at by Professor Alexander Wai, Vice President (Research Development) of PolyU, and Dr Calvin Hu, Senior Vice President of Yonyou. Both commended the establishment of the joint laboratory as an exemplary case of successful collaboration between the University and the private sector, one that will bring significant benefits to students, staff, researchers and industries.
Yonyou is a leading enterprise management software and cloud service provider in the Asia- Pacific region. The company is listed in Shanghai Stock Exchange with over 1,500,000 customers, 12,000 staff and 100 offices. Leveraging on Yonyou’s strengths in research and development and rich global resources, this joint lab will become an effective platform driving frontier research in smart cloud computing for enterprises, innovative enterprise management software, industrial data repository as well as case studies for implementation of enterprise resources planning (ERP) solutions.
On PolyU side, this new collaboration enables its Department of Computing (COMP) to nurture young talents with professional knowledge and skills in ERP solutions and related applications. With the support and generous donation of $10 million worth of software from Yonyou, both research students and undergraduates at COMP especially those having a major in Enterprise Information Systems will be given a unique opportunity to learn and master theories and methodologies on deploying ERP systems including logistics and supply chain management, e-commerce, human resources and operations planning. Students will be able to access real-life case studies and industry data, and secure hands-on experience in industrial-strength projects. It will definitely provide PolyU students with a competitive advantage when looking for careers in these emerging areas.
For more information on PolyU-Yonyou Joint Laboratory on Smart Cloud Computing, please visit http://pyscc.comp.polyu.edu.hk/
