
[date]2013.05.29[/date]
[title]PolyU holds the First Inauguration of Endowed Professorships[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) staged a special ceremony today (29 May) at the Jockey Club Auditorium on its campus to mark the First Inauguration of Endowed Professorships.
The Endowed Professorship Scheme not only accords public recognition to top scholars for their outstanding academic and research achievements, but also provides philanthropists with the unique opportunity to partner with the University to advance research and academic activities of a discipline of their choice for the benefits of the wider community.
Presided over by Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Chairman of the University Council, the Inauguration Ceremony saw the presentation of a total of eight Endowed Professorships together with two named professorships established by the then Hong Kong Polytechnic.
Addressing the Ceremony, Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, said, "For PolyU as a whole, the Endowed Professorship means a vote of confidence to our research and innovation over the years and it gives us a strong boost to strive for the next level of excellence." He also expressed his thanks to all those who have turned the Scheme into reality in his speech.
The eight Endowed Professorships and their incumbents were:
Patrick S.C. Poon Endowed Professorship in Applied Chemistry Endowed by Mr Patrick S.C. Poon Incumbent: Professor K.Y. Wong, Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles
Eric C. Yim Endowed Professorship in Asian Ergonomics Endowed by Mr Eric C. Yim Incumbent: Professor Roger Ball, School of Design
Cally Kwong Mei Wan Endowed Professorship in Culture and Art Endowed by Miss Cally Kwong Mei Wan Incumbent: Professor Chu Hung-lam, Department of Chinese Culture
Henry G. Leong Endowed Professorship in Elderly Vision Health Endowed by Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation Incumbent: Professor To Chi-ho, School of Optometry
Clarea Au Endowed Professorship in Energy Endowed by Miss Clarea Au Incumbent: Professor Charles Surya, Department of Electronic and Information Engineering  
Lee Family Endowed Professorship in Fashion and Textiles Endowed by Dr Harry Lee, SBS, JP Incumbent: Professor John Xin, Institute of Textiles and Clothing
Angel S.P. Chan Lau Endowed Professorship in Health and Longevity Endowed by Professor Angel Lau, BBS, JP Incumbent: Professor Alex Molasiotis, School of Nursing
K.B. Woo Family Endowed Professorship in Optometry Endowed by Professor George Woo &amp; Professor Victor Chi Pang Woo Incumbent: Professor Maurice K.H. Yap, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences
Two historically named professorships were also presented on the same occasion. They were:
Swire Professorship in Design With donation from Swire Group Incumbent: Professor Cees de Bont, School of Design
Cheng Yick-chi Chair in Manufacturing Engineering With donation from the late Dr Cheng Yick-chi Incumbent: Ir Professor W.B. Lee, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering
A six-member Advisory Committee, chaired by Professor Timothy W. Tong, has been set up to give advice on the planning and appointment process of the Scheme. Other members include Mr Chan Tze-ching; Dr Jonathan Choi Koon-shum; Professor Roy Chung Chi-ping; Dr Victor Lo Chung-wing; and Mr Patrick S.C. Poon.
The Endowed Professorship Scheme was launched in 2012 which marked the 75th Anniversary of PolyU. The first batch of eight Endowed Professorships was established each with a generous donation of HK$7.5 million in commemoration of this important milestone. The donation, together with a contribution from the PolyU Development Foundation and the possible fund matched by the University Grants Committee, will be used to set up an endowed fund to provide support for the continuous advancement of the designated academic area.
