
[date]2013.08.21[/date]
[title]PolyU and J.P. Morgan join hands in staging "RecycleBANK Fun Fair 2013"  [/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and J.P. Morgan joined hands to stage the "RecycleBANK Fun Fair 2013" on 3 August 2013 (Saturday) on the PolyU campus. The fun fair featured a wide range of education games, workshops, performances and exhibition to raise environmental awareness, and was attended by more than 1,000 participants, including children, youngsters, parents and the elderly.
The "RecycleBANK Fun Fair" is an annual event first organized by J.P. Morgan in 2010 to promote green concept. This year, PolyU and J.P. Morgan have worked together again to roll out the importance of green living and recycling to the wider local community.
Speaking at the Opening Ceremony, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) Professor Angelina Yuen thanked J.P. Morgan for their generous support to PolyU. She said, "As an application-oriented university, PolyU not only focuses on providing high-quality education, but also carries out application-oriented research projects with practical value. We are delighted to partner with J.P. Morgan again this year in co-organizing today's event ‘RecycleBANK FUN FAIR 2013' to cultivate an environmentally-friendly culture in the community."
Mr Simon Huang, Managing Director of J.P. Morgan, Hong Kong Chief Administrative Officer, said, "J.P. Morgan recognizes that policies and practices adopted today will have a profound impact on the lives of future generations. We have been an active supporter of initiatives and policies that help create a better environment and are proud to have won the gold award in the 2012 Hong Kong Awards of Environmental Excellence (HKAEE) for Financial, Legal and Business Consulting Services sector. We will continue to build on the momentum we have achieved in raising environmental awareness in the community."
PolyU has incorporated credit-bearing "service-learning" courses as one of the core subjects in the new four-year undergraduate curriculum starting from 2012/13 academic year. All undergraduates are expected to apply knowledge and skills acquired from their studies to serve the community. PolyU has a great pleasure to join hands with J.P. Morgan to provide service-learning projects in Sham Shui Po this year, which aim to consolidate resources for providing sustainable and integrated service to residents in need.
