
[date]2013.06.28[/date]
[title]PolyU announces final results of Global Student Challenge 2013[/title]
Organized by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), PolyU Innovation and Entrepreneurship Global Student Challenge (GSC) 2013 has come to a fruitful close. After rounds of keen competition, the Gold Award of the University Division went to University of Dhaka, Bangladesh. As for the Secondary School Division, Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies, South Korea snatched the Gold Award. (Please refer to the full list of award winners.)
The Final competition was held yesterday (27 June) on the university campus, with six finalist teams competing in the University Division and another six teams in the Secondary School Division. These aspiring young people presented their innovative business ideas to a panel of judges comprising of renowned entrepreneurs, business executives, school principals, university professors and venture capitalists from Hong Kong and overseas.
The winning entry presented by the University of Dhaka in Bangladesh is Shurokkha, an affordable, eco-friendly and disposable sanitary pad made from local bamboo fibres for female factory workers. With this home-grown innovation, the team hopes that they could promote good menstrual care and practices in their country, which in turn will nurture a more productive female workforce.
In the Secondary School Division, the Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies has impressed the judges with their inexpensive and physiologically friendly mosquito eliminator V-Trap. This innovation is conceived in response to the severity of malaria and other mosquito-borne diseases. By luring mosquitoes to its built-in glue trap made up of octenol, lactic acid and carbon dioxide ' all of which are mosquito attractants but proven harmless to the human body ' V-Trap can eliminate mosquitoes easily, safely and effectively.
This large-scale international event was launched by PolyU in 2010 as a major initiative to embrace internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship. This year's GSC has attracted 228 teams from secondary schools and universities from 34 countries and territories and the 12 finalist teams have risen to the top amidst fierce competition at the Semi-Final which took place three days ago (24 June).
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong extended a warm welcome to the participants, many of them are visiting Hong Kong for the first time to join the GSC. He said, "It is truly impressive to see the widespread support from the community for this event and keen participation of students from different parts of the world. GSC not only helps to unleash students' business sense and creativity, but also helps to heighten PolyU's effort in promoting internationalization, innovation and entrepreneurship."
Professor Judy Tsui, Vice President (International and Executive Education) and Chairman of GSC Organizing Committee, said, "We take pride in hosting this competition which provides a unique opportunity for students all around the world to develop innovative and entrepreneurial potential and broaden their global perspective and networks."
Presentations of the University Division at the Final Competition were adjudicated by a judging panel chaired by Dr Kelvin Wong, Executive Director and Deputy Managing Director, COSCO Pacific Limited, Hong Kong. Other judges included: Professor Alan Barrell, Entrepreneur in Residence, Centre for Entrepreneurial Learning, Judge Business School, University of Cambridge, UK; Professor Richard Leigh Henry, Vice President and Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic), University of New South Wales, Australia; Mr Donald Y.S. Lam, Head of Corporate and Commercial Banking, Hang Seng Bank Limited, Hong Kong; and Mr Joseph Y.W. Pang, Senior Advisor, The Bank of East Asia, Limited, Hong Kong.
As for the Secondary School Division, the judging panel was chaired by Dr Raymond Chan, Chairman and CEO, Oregon Scientific Global Distribution Limited, Hong Kong. Other members included: Dr Ken Coates, Canada Research Chair in Regional Innovation, Johnson-Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy, University of Saskatchewan, Canada; Professor Daan van Eijk, Professor, Applied Ergonomics and Design, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands;   Dr John Richard Kennard, Principal, St. Paul's College, Hong Kong; Mrs Stella Lau, Headmistress, Diocesan Girls' School, Hong Kong; and Professor Michael John Worton, Vice-Provost (International), University College London, UK.
The judging panel of GSC 2013 was composed of a total of 30 Semi-Final and 11 Final judges with diverse experience coming from all over the world, all of them being renowned academics and senior executives in their respective fields. In addition, 15 overseas academics from globally renowned institutions were invited to play the role of international advisors as well as judges to provide top tips for students preparing for the Challenge and add international dimensions to the judging mechanism of the competition. They have also met with the participants of the Secondary School Division after the Semi-Final competition, providing feedbacks and comments on their performance.
The business proposals were grouped by the sub-themes of Health and Wellness, Lifestyle, Environment and Sustainability, and Corporate Social Responsibility / Social Enterprise. Winners of Gold, Silver, Bronze, Commendation Awards as well as the Theme Award and Best of the Best Elevator Pitch Award for each division were selected and announced last night at the Gala Ceremony at The Mira Hong Kong. All winning teams were presented with a trophy and cash prizes, and each individual team member received a certificate.
During their stay in Hong Kong, GSC participants had ample opportunities interacting with their peers through an array of activities supported by PolyU Student Ambassadors. The comprehensive excursion programme ranged from educational visits to the Hong Kong Science Park and Cyberport to fun-filled activities such as Ocean Park visit and Tai-chi experience.
The University is grateful to the following sponsors for their ardent support to the GSC:
Emerald Sponsors Chevalier Group The Mira Hong Kong
Official Carriers Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Limited
Supporting Organizations The Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited The Hong Kong Science &amp; Technology Parks
Co-organizer International Strategic Technology Alliance
For more details about GSC 2013, please visit the official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/polyuchallenge
