
[date]2013.10.16[/date]
[title]800 PolyU students join "Summer in Mainland China" activities   With the launch of Global Youth Leadership Programme[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has launched an array of activities under the 'Summer in Mainland China' programme which attracted more than eight hundred students to explore the Chinese mainland and keep themselves abreast of her latest developments during summer break. The debut 'Global Youth Leadership Programme', the recent highlight, offers participating students training opportunities and personal growth insights through various cross-territorial activities. A sharing session 'Summer in Mainland China 2013 – A Recollection' was held at PolyU on 11 October to let students reminisce about the joyous moments in the programme and think about the prospects of different projects across the border.
The first phase of the two-year Global Youth Leadership Programme also witnessed a fruitful cooperation between PolyU and the Peking University. During the summer break, lectures were offered in Beijing and Xi'an for participating students. They were also able to learn about the work of the Chinese farmers and the life of the physically-challenged in the rural villages of Shaanxi Province. During the trip, students also made visits to government ministries and had dialogue sessions with business and community leaders including Ms Annie Wu, standing committee member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Mr Li Song-shan, former Foreign Minister for Africa, the management of Tencent, Inc. as well as other young leaders and social workers.
Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) of PolyU and Advisor of the Global Youth Leadership Programme, said, "The University aims to nurture young leaders with social responsibilities, international perspectives, be knowledgeable of the developments of their home country and able to solve social issues with innovative means. Meanwhile, we are pleased to see participating students to achieve holistic development and personal growth and further develop their potential through this programme."
Taking the programme to the next level, PolyU will organize 'Global Youth Leadership Forum' early next year inviting young leaders from around the globe to meet with leaders from government, business and community. The University will also schedule a programme on 'International relations and global politics' to be held between end of next year and early 2015. A study trip to the United States will be organized for the participating students to visit offices of the United Nations, government units of the United States and have dialogues with international leaders.    
Proactive year one undergraduate students with sound academic performance and showing commitment to complete all required projects of the Programme are eligible for the Global Young Leader Programme. A total of twenty four PolyU students from Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland, Taiwan, the United States, Thailand and Korea were selected after interview.
In order to enrich the learning experience of students and broaden their knowledge beyond their professional domains, and to foster their sense of cultural connection and social responsibility, PolyU launched this year the ‘Summer in Mainland China' which is a series of learning programmes grouped under five areas, including General Education courses, Mainland Service Learning, Global Youth Leadership Programme, Mainland Experience Scheme and Study Tours. The sharing session 'Summer in Mainland China 2013 – A Recollection' was held earlier in Chiang Chen Studio Theatre and joined by nearly 300 audience.
