
[date]2013.09.24[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts Young Leadership Conference for engineers and students[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), The British Consulate-General and The Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Northeast Asia Region successfully launched a new Asia Pacific Initiative called "EngNow" from 13 to 17 September 2013. Under this programme, three activities were held on PolyU campus and the headquarters of China Light Power (CLP) Corporation, namely "Speak-out for Engineering", "Design Contest – Products for People with Vision Impairment" and "Young Leadership Conference".  
EngNow is a new approach in revolutionizing activities organized by engineering professional bodies in Hong Kong. It aims not only at providing young engineers and students with professional knowledge in engineering, but also broadening their mindset towards other business sectors.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, addressed in the Young Leadership Conference held on 16 September and gave an opening speech to the audience. At the Gala Dinner on the following day, Mrs Carrie Lam, The Chief Secretary for Administration of the Hong Kong SAR Government, attended the event as the Guest of Honour.  
The activities of EngNow were well received by participants. "Speak-out for Engineering" attracted twelve teams of students from over eight countries or cities, including India, Pakistan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Australia and China, etc. there were over sixty teams (including teams from Korea and Macau) competing in the first round of proposal submission in the Design Contest and eleven teams were shortlisted for presentation. Meanwhile, over four hundred young engineers and students attended the Young Leadership Conference and the panelists, who are the industry captains, shared their experience and views with the participants through seminars and workshops.
The organizers of EngNow expressed their sincere thanks to all sponsors including The Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company (HAECO), CLP, The Hong Kong Electric Company Limited, The MTR Corporation, The Hong Kong and China Gas Company Limited (Towngas), Kum Shing Group, Chun Wo Development Holdings Limited, Chevalier, Dalkia, Eurostag International Limited, Jardine Engineering Corporation and Yau Lee Holdings Limited, in their great support of this event.
For more photos, please see URL: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cWCEcfhU8gM
