
[date]2013.11.22[/date]
[title]ACBM conference and workshop offer Asian perspective on branding and marketing in a global marketplace[/title]
The Asian Centre for Branding and Marketing (ACBM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) organized its 7th International conference with the theme "Branding and marketing in a global marketplace – An Asian Perspective" and its first ever Workshop Series on branding building and marketing from 18 to 19 Nov 2013 on PolyU campus . 
On the first day, the conference began with keynote speeches by two senior academics, Professor Gerald Gorn, Chair Professor in the Department of Management and Marketing at PolyU and Professor Saeed Samiee, Collins Professor of Marketing and International Business, The University of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the US. These were followed by paper presentations by faculty members and research students from Hong Kong and many other countries and regions including the Chinese mainland, India, UK and USA, in which they shared their knowledge and insights on branding and marketing with an audience of marketing practitioners, students and academics.
The last session had two more keynote speeches by marketing professionals Ms Viveca Chan, CEO of WE Marketing Group and WE Enguage, and Ms Puifung Leung, Founder and Business Development Director of Fairtaste Hong Kong, a social enterprise.  Ms Chan shared her insights on the application of social media for marketing especially on the Chinese mainland, and Ms Leung shared her experience in promoting the concept of fair trade.  The final highlight of the day was an informal reception in the evening where all the participants further shared their ideas and experiences with each other.
On the second day, Associate Professor Dr Thomas P. Leung conducted a workshop on branding building and Associate Professor Dr Sherriff T.K. Luk conducted a workshop on creating and managing brand experience. Both the workshops were attended by marketing managers from a wide range of industries including retail, consumer products, B2B marketing, etc. All the participants had a chance to share their experiences with each other as well as learn latest branding and marketing concepts and theories.
