
[date]2013.10.21[/date]
[title]PolyU professor wins the laureate of "Ten Outstanding Young Persons"[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to have a young professor bestowed with the prestigious award of "Ten Outstanding Young Persons" this year.  The honour went to Professor Raymond Tong Kai-yu of the Interdisciplinary Division of Biomedical Engineering at the University's Faculty of Engineering.
Professor Tong is recognized for his passion and distinguished accomplishment in innovation and applied scientific research in neuro-rehabilitation for stroke patients and the elderly. His commitment for extending the frontiers of knowledge has sparked off in the secondary school years when he served organized many community service programmes in elderly centres and saw many people suffering from stroke.
"During the sharing session with them, I realize that the elderly and persons after stroke wish to regain their independency in daily activities and to maintain good quality of life," said Professor Tong, who was inspired by their wish to embark on an academic career that will bring research and invention to benefit the elderly and stroke patients.
The young Raymond completed his BEng in Computer Engineering with first-class honour at the University of Hong Kong in 1995 and furthered his studies abroad in the UK. He finished PhD in Bioengineering from the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, in 1998 and joined The Hong Kong Polytechnic University in the following year.
Over the years, he has made great strides in developing a wide range of rehabilitation devices. His innovative work on rehabilitation robot system "Hand of Hope" was the first Hong Kong invention to have received the grand prize in the 40-year history of the International Exhibition of Inventions of Geneva, making Hong Kong internationally visible in this emerging area in healthcare technology.
His creativity also proved to work on the e-platform with the development of KineLabs 3D motion software, which has received Winner Award (e-Health) in the Asia Pacific Information and communications Technology Award in 2012 in Brunei. More importantly, the systems developed by Professor Tong have already reached hospitals and elderly centers to facilitate stroke rehabilitation and elderly exercise --- with fun.
Professor Tong has a roll of honour for his ground-breaking innovation. He was also the recipient of the Grand Award of the innovation awards for young members from the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers in 2008.
Professor Tong is keen to impart his knowledge to the next generations through teaching and supervision of research students. Despite his hectic schedule, he also provides clinical services in the University's Jockey Club Rehabilitation Engineering Clinic to support the development of new rehabilitation intervention and product developments.
In addition to having Professor Tong on this roll of honour, PolyU's postgraduate student Mr Fung Ying-ki of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences and fashion design alumnae Miss Cecilia Yau were also selected for the "Ten Outstanding Young Persons" this year. Mr Fung Ying-ki is a Paralymic fencing gold medallist. He has once lost the use of his legs as a child after contacting a virus, which posed damage to his spinal cord. However, he has overcome his disabilities with stamina and won five gold medals in the previous Paralympics Games. He will be graduating from PolyU in the end of 2013. The University extends its warmest congratulations to all of them.  
