
[date]2013.12.11[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Nursing hosts Hong Kong’s First Innovation Day and Innovation Awards Competition[/title]
Established by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)’s School of Nursing in 2013, The Hong Kong Innovation Academy (HKIA) serves to collaborate with scientists in the local healthcare sector to showcase and promote their innovations. The Academy also encourages investment from the commercial sector to commercialize for the benefit of more patients and people in need.
HKIA is a member of the World Innovation Academy, a global setup initiated by the University of Geneva in Switzerland. Comprising scientists and researchers of leading universities and associations, its key objectives is to come up with innovative solutions to solve the various problems encountered in the medical and healthcare sector.
The inaugural event of HKIA is the Hong Kong Innovation Day and the Innovation Award Competition held on PolyU campus today (11 December 2013). In order to encourage more innovative ideas and solutions for the benefits of the patients, clinicians as well as the healthcare industry, HKIA invited the researchers from local healthcare organisations and higher education institutes to submit innovative solutions for medical and healthcare issues nowadays. The submissions will be judged according to their ease for duplication, sustainability, cost effectiveness and in the improvement in the quality of life for patients.
Strongly supported by the industry, the competition received total of 46 submissions from academia, hospitals and healthcare device industry. Ten outstanding entries were selected for the final competition. Comprising patent lawyers, intellectual property experts, professors, doctors, and representatives from local medical devices association and biotech industry, the judging panel will, with their respective expertise, identify the winners after assessing their impact and their potential for commercialization.
The Champion of the Innovation Awards Competition will represent Hong Kong to compete for the ultimate global Innovation Award of Excellence at the World Innovation Day in Geneva in 2014, alongside with other champions at local Innovation Days from different parts of the world.
Results of Innovation Award of Hong Kong Innovation Day:
Champion“A Novel Drug-loaded Biodegradable Weft-knitted Stent for the Treatment of Colorectal Cancers”By Professor LI Yi, Institute of Textiles &amp; Clothing, PolyU
First Runner-up“An Innovative Rehabilitation Simulation System for Learning Activities of Daily Living”By Dr CHOI Kup-sze, School of Nursing, PolyU Second Runner-up“Create An Infusion Trolley for Enhancing the Effectiveness, Efficiency and Safety in Post Open Heart Surgery Patient Transportation”By Miss WONG Lee Yuen, Cardiothoracic Surgery Department, Queen Mary Hospital
Audience Favorite Award“Instant Vision Assessment Device: A Stenopaic Slit Refraction System with a Binocular Telescopic Optometer”By Professor George WOO, School of Optometry, PolyU
About Hong Kong Innovation Academy
To nourish an innovative culture in healthcare, the School of Nursing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University sets up Hong Kong’s first Innovation Academy. HKIA is a member of a global setup of leading universities, led by the University of Geneva in Switzerland. HKIA will co-organize the World Innovation Day in 2014 with other partners.
About World Innovation Day and World Innovation Academy
The World Innovation Academy and the World Innovation Day were launched in 2012 by Professor Didier Pittet, a leading expert on hand hygiene and infection control, and by Dr François Gilardoni, an expert on innovation, entrepreneurship and venture capital. Launched in 2011, the first Innovation Day achieved tremendous success where a number of winning projects had attracted investors to further develop the ideas into commercial products and eventually have them implemented in healthcare settings. To foster a global culture of innovation in medical and healthcare sector, the first World Innovation Day will be held in Geneva in 2014. Champions at local Innovation Days will compete for the ultimate global Innovation Award of Excellence at the World Innovation Day in 2014.
