
[date]2013.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU presents Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards[/title]
A total of sixteen winners of the 2013 Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards were presented with the coveted prizes by Guest-of-Honour Professor Justin Lin Yifu, Member of the Standing Committee of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, Counselor of the State Council and Vice Chairman of All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce; Mr Chen King-wai, another Vice Chairman of All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce; Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU); and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) of PolyU at a gala dinner held at Hotel ICON on 28 November 2013.
This event was attended by nearly 300 guests, including Mr Wang Zhimin, Deputy Director of Liaison Office of the Central People’s Government in the HKSAR; Mr Eddie Ng Hak-kim, Secretary for Education of the HKSAR Government; Mr Guo Wei, Chairman of China Non-Governmental Science &amp; Technology Entrepreneurs Association; Mr Peng Weimin, President of Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association; Dr Henry Tseng, Chairman of Kingtronics Holdings (HK) Ltd and PolyU Court Member; Professor Roy Chung Chi-ping, PolyU Court Chairman; Dr Patrick Poon, PolyU Council Member and Treasurer; Ms Grace Yu, Executive Director of UBS AG and participants from different business sectors.
The 16 awardees come from 11 provinces and cities on the Chinese mainland. The scope of their businesses encompasses environmental technology, biomedical and pharmaceutical products, electrical illuminating products, information technology, fashion and garment manufacturing, media and creative industry, etc. Among them, 11 received the Outstanding Entrepreneur Awards, while five are winners of two newly created awards, namely “Technology Innovation Award” and “Social Responsibility Award”. (Please refer to the Appendix for the full list of awardees)
First launched in 1997, the Bauhinia Cup is organized by PolyU with an aim to accord public recognition to those outstanding mainland entrepreneurs who have made significant contributions to business and industry and in the course of technological and social development. It also provides a valuable opportunity for entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and the mainland to exchange their experiences and explore further business opportunities. Over the past 16 years, the Bauhinia Cup Awards scheme has honoured a total of 147 outstanding entrepreneurs. Among the awardees are Mr Ma Huateng, Chairman of Tencent Holding Ltd, Mr Wang Chuanfu, Chairman of BYD Company Ltd; Mr Yu Minhong, Chairman of New Oriental Education and Technology Group, to name but a few.Speaking at the gala dinner, Professor Tong said, “This year’s awardees are all leading figures in their own fields, who had made illustrious contributions to the economic, technology and social development of society. Their success owes much to their distinct acumen and innovative ideas, and also teamwork, sound management system and technology development in their enterprises. As a leading university that excels in professional education, applied research and partnership, PolyU is well poised to work closely with the awardees to promote academia-industry collaboration, thereby advancing the development of non-governmental enterprises on the mainland.” He also thanked the co-organizers and mainland partners for their continuous support over the past 16 years.
Under the Awards scheme, the portfolio of each candidate is assessed objectively by a Selection Committee comprising prominent community leaders and distinguished entrepreneurs from the mainland and Hong Kong. Nominations for the awards were invited from across the country. This major event is also supported by senior Chinese leaders as well as major business organizations in both Hong Kong and the mainland. Co-organizers include the All-China Federation of Industry &amp; Commerce, China Non-Governmental Science &amp; Technology Entrepreneurs Association, Federation of Industries (Taiwan), Federation of Hong Kong Industries, The Chinese Manufacturers’ Association of Hong Kong, The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce, Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association.
Members of the Presidium include Mr Li Lu, Deputy Chairman of All-China Federation of Industry &amp; Commerce; Mr Guo Wei, Chairman of China Non-Governmental Science &amp; Technology Entrepreneurs Association; Mr Xu Shengxiong, Chairman of Federation of Industries (Taiwan); Dr Stanley Lau, Chairman of Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Mr Irons Sze, President of The Chinese Manufacturers’ Association of Hong Kong; Dr Charles Yeung, Chairman of The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce; The Hon. Chow Chung-kong, Chairman of Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce; Mr Peng Weimin, President of Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association; and Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU. The Awards’ Organizing Committee is co-chaired by Dr Henry Tseng, Chairman of Kingtronics Holdings (HK) Ltd and PolyU Court Member; and Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) of PolyU.
The award recipients also attended a variety of activities organized by PolyU during their stay in Hong Kong, including the “Award Recipients’ Sharing Session” which aimed to promote exchange of experience and knowledge between academics, industry and business leaders. They will also pay a visit to the Hong Kong Science Park. The award recipients are invited to join the Bauhinia Cup Outstanding Entrepreneurs Association, which was established in 2002 with an aim to serve as a network for entrepreneurs and help promote the continuous economic development of the country.
