
[date]2013.10.27[/date]
[title]PolyU salutes 11,106 graduates at 19th Congregation[/title]
Presided over by the Chancellor of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) the Honourable Leung Chun-ying; PolyU Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak and President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the 19th Congregation saw the conferment of honorary degree upon five distinguished personalities and sent forth 11,106 graduates. The ceremony was held in the Jockey Club Auditorium on the university campus.
The recipients of honorary doctorates are (in alphabetical order of last name): Professor Mildred S. Dresselhaus, Emerita Institute Professor of Physics and Electrical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); Dr Edwin Leong Siu-hung, Executive Chairman and Founder of Tai Hung Fai Enterprise Company Limited; Professor Pai Hsien-yung (in absentia), renowned contemporary writer and a staunch advocate of Kunqu; Mr Patrick Poon Sun-cheong, Chairman of Harvest SCP Group Company Limited; and Ms Güler Sabanci, Chairman and Managing Director of Turkey-based Sabanci Holding and Founding President of Sabanci University. (Please see attachment for details.)
In extending his congratulations to the honorary doctorates and graduates, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong also emphasized the University’s commitment for innovation.
“PolyU is a university that emphasizes education and research with strong application value and social relevance. We never hesitate when it comes to taking bold steps that can help Hong Kong tackle present and future challenges. We explore beyond limits and strive to do the impossible,” said Professor Tong, “I hope the graduates here today share our conviction and determination.”
Professor Tong also cited PolyU’s partnership with The Boeing Company to set up Hong Kong’s first Aviation Services Research Centre as an example. “The vision is for the Centre to engage in various multi-disciplinary research activities, ranging from material science, structural analysis and manufacturing to aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul. Our objective is to come up with innovative solutions needed by the industry. The Centre may also steer the development of other aviation-related industries in Hong Kong and the South China region, thereby spawning even more rewarding career opportunities for our young people,” said Professor Tong.
The innovative endeavours of PolyU extended to the area of hospitality education, notably with the establishment of a purpose-driven teaching and research hotel which is the first of its kind in the world. “With Hotel ICON, PolyU is uniquely positioned not just to cultivate the human resources needed but to drive the overall development of the industry,” he said.
Professor Tong added that another form of innovation – social innovation – is needed to address the needs of the underprivileged, social inequality and the widening wealth gap. To this end, PolyU opened the Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation last year with a focus on service design, sustainable development, holistic health, as well as adolescent and family development. “We are providing a new approach for colleagues from different disciplines and people from different walks of life to collectively tackle our problems,” he said.
In closing, Professor Tong urged graduates not to be afraid to venture outside their comfort zone, be brave to challenge the present and enrich the future, and become “practical dreamers”.
The University has a total of 11,106 graduates this year, including 184 Doctor of Philosophy, 40 discipline-based Doctor’s degree, 66 Master of Philosophy, 4,130 Master’s degree, 5,140 Bachelor’s degree, 101 postgraduate diploma and certificate and 1,440 sub-degree award recipients.
Although Professor Pai Hsien-yung was not able to attend the Congregation in person, he will make a special trip to visit PolyU in early December and give a literary talk for the University’s Culture Promotion Committee. Details will be announced very soon.
