
[date]2013.11.14[/date]
[title]PolyU student Fung Ying-ki listed among "Ten Outstanding Young Persons"[/title]
From bounding to a wheelchair to winning five gold medals in fencing at the Paralympic Games, Mr Fung Ying-ki, a full-time Master's student of the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has come a long way in overcoming the challenges of life. He has been recently bestowed with the 'Ten Outstanding Young Persons' (TOYP) award.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, is pleased with the achievement of Ying-ki. He said: "Ying-ki has touched the heart of many people with his passion for life and zeal for sports. He has not only set a role model for PolyU staff and students, but also encourages the younger generations to stay resilient in times of adversity and never give up."   Ying-ki, who will soon complete the Master of Physiotherapy of PolyU at the end of this year, is a Paralympic fencing gold medalist. He was a member of the Hong Kong's wheelchair fencing team from 1995 to 2006. In 1998 he was already in the spotlight upon his winning of the IWAS World Wheelchair Fencing Championship. At the 2000 and 2004 Paralympics, Ying Ki won five gold medals, one silver and one bronze in fencing in total and rose to international fame. 
The young Ying-ki lost the use of his legs at 13 after virus infection, which posed damage to his spinal cord. Nevertheless, he overcame his disabilities with a positive attitude for life. After attending a special school for six months, Ying-ki decided to continue his study at a mainstream school. He reflected on his own decision: "I knew I had to rise to the challenge if I want to lead a purposeful life. So I continued my study at a mainstream school against all odds."
Ying-ki headed in a new direction after being a wheelchair fencer. He sharpened his fencing skills as well as his life goal with arduous training. "I want to repay the society with what I took from it. Helping others through community work with my skills and experience is far more meaningful than winning a medal."
Ying-ki has been devoting himself to youth service since being a professional athlete, sharing his experience with students at secondary schools and universities. After retiring from fencing, he began his studies in sports and published various articles of sports science in Hong Kong and abroad to promote the development of disability sport and help people with chronic diseases excel in sports.
Ying-ki is also heavily involved in community service. He was appointed as a Commission Member of the Hong Kong Association of Sports Medicine and Sports Science (HKASMSS) and the Classification Committee Member of the International Paralympic Committee in 2010. Besides the TOYP award, he was crowned numerous prizes including the Medal of Honour by the Hong Kong SAR Government in 2001 and he was named one of the ‘Ten Resilient Heroes' in 2004.
Although the sensory function of his lower limb is not completely recovered, Ying-ki can now stand up from the wheelchair and walk after years of training, which fully manifests his motto: "Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power". He plans to serve in non-governmental organization after graduation next year.
