
[date]2013.10.30[/date]
[title]The PolyU Fund-raising Dinner 2013 – “Spanish Fiesta”[/title]
Entitled “Spanish Fiesta”, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Fund-raising Dinner 2013 organised by the University’s Fund-raising Committee was held on 29th October, 2013 (Tuesday) at 7:00pm at Hotel ICON. The Dinner forms an integral part of the reminiscent fund-raising event – “Those Were the Days at Keswick Hall”, bringing together distinguished guests, graduates, friends and supporters of PolyU for a heart-warming reunion in memory of Keswick Hall (the University’s landmark dating back to its former era as the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Polytechnic).
The dinner was graced by the presence of PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang, former PolyU Council Chairmen Dr &amp; Mrs Allen Lee, Sir Gordon Wu &amp; Lady Ivy Wu, PolyU Court Chairman Professor Roy Chung, former PolyU Court Chairman Dr &amp; Mrs Tung Chee-chen, the General Consul of Spain, Mr Juan Manuel Lopez-Nadal, Under Secretary for Home Affairs Ms Florence Hui, PolyU Fund-raising Committee Chairman Dr Patrick Poon, PolyU Fund-raising Committee Deputy Chairmen Mrs Nina Lam and Mrs Katherine Ngan, PolyU Fund-raising Committee member Miss Cally Kwong, representatives of Presentation Organizations Mr Daniel Chan and Mr Chilam Cheung.
The evening’s culinary feast came courtesy of Michelin Star Chef Diego Guerrero. Combining creative daring, extraordinary skills and quality ingredients, the Spanish virtuoso chef invited guests to explore the multi-faceted Spanish taste with a distinctively character. Alongside Spanish cuisine, attending guests savoured pairing wines from premium Spanish vineyards, including Manuel Manzaneque Chardonnay from Finca Élez, Monastrell offered by Telmo Rodriguez and Cava Artemayor NV recommended by Spanish Trade Commission.
Renowned Spanish dancer and flamenco artist Clara Ramona regaled guests with energising beat and steps, while Francesco Teopini, the promising young guitarist whom Grammy musician David Russell praised as “a remarkably skilful, consistent and confident guitarist”, brought down the house with quintessential Spanish soundtrack that ushered in the passionate spirit of a true Spanish fiesta.
The fund-raising dinner also featured a live auction of high jewellery, art piece and premium wines sponsored by Roger Dubuis under Paragon International Ltd., Franck Muller, PolyU alumnus Alex Lui, ASC Fine Wines, Onflo Wines &amp; Spirits, and Sinospan.
Over five million Hong Kong dollars have been raised from the dinner. The net proceeds will be used to support the all-round development of PolyU students and enhance their competitiveness.
  
About PolyU’s history and the Keswick Hall
The Institution has progressed from its earliest days as the Hong Kong Government Trade School, founded in 1937, to become the Hong Kong Technical College after World War II, eventually becoming the Hong Kong Polytechnic in 1972 – Hong Kong's first and largest tertiary institution providing technical education at post-secondary and degree levels. Since 1994, PolyU has assumed the full status of a university.
The Keswick Hall, built in 1958 in the centre of the campus, was the landmark witnessing the myriad changes of PolyU’s predecessors. The multifunctional complex was used as a venue for graduation ceremonies, balls, and debate contests starting from the era of the Hong Kong Technical College. It was demolished in the 90s.
  
