
[date]2014.01.16[/date]
[title]PolyU stages the first Intimate Fashion Show at Hong Kong Fashion Week[/title]
With the devoted efforts of 33 students and strong support from the industry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) held its first Intimate Fashion Show today (16 January) at the Hong Kong Fashion Week for Fall/Winter. It showcased 12 final collections of six outfits designed by the graduating students from PolyU's Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC), majoring in intimate apparel. The raw materials, design and production mentoring for the show were sponsored by intimate apparel manufacturers and suppliers.
Professor John H. Xin, Chair Professor and Head of ITC, remarked that the students' works have fully demonstrated their innovation, knowledge as well as their enthusiasm for intimate apparel design. This unique fashion show also highlighted the continuous and close collaboration between the industry and ITC. On this auspicious occasion, Professor Xin was delighted to announce that Regina Miracle International Ltd. has pledged a generous donation to ITC in support of the next Intimate Fashion Show.
Mr Kenneth K.C. Wong, Chairman of Hong Kong Intimate Apparel Industries' Association (HKIAIA) and Executive Director of Top Form International Limited, highly commended the students for their devotion and hard work. He stated that HKIAIA would continue to support the nurturing of future talents as this is important for the future growth and development of the industry. Ms Annie W.Y. Wong, former President of Mast Industries (Far East) Limited and Chief Sponsor of the show, said she was keen to foster collaboration between the academia and the best-in-class industrial players, with a view to identifying and grooming more creative new talents.
Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and research development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile. ITC is also the first institution in Asia Pacific to offer tertiary education to cultivate young talents in intimate apparel design and technology.
The Hong Kong Fashion Week is being held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from 13 to 16 January 2014. ITC conducted a 30-minute Demo Session on 13 January, during which four ITC graduates presented their newly established brand and demonstrated a making process of their designs.
