
[date]2013.10.29[/date]
[title]Student from Red Cross JFK Centre completed PolyU degree[/title]
A wheelchair-bound student from the Hong Kong Red Cross John F Kennedy Centre has completed his Bachelor of Science in Computing at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) against all odds. With rounds of applause from the audience, Lau Shiu-fung received his first degree certificate today (29 October) at the Graduation Ceremony of the University’s Faculty of Engineering.
Lau Shiu-fung has decided to follow in the footstep of the late Lau Hiu-fung, who was called “Hong Kong’s Stephen Hawking” by the local media. Inspired by Hiu-fung, Shiu-fung is determined to pursue a career in researching on new technologies for the disabled. He will pursue further studies under the supervision of the same teacher --- Associate Professor Dr Henry Chan of the Department of Computing.
During his three years of study at PolyU, Shiu-fung has showed his talents in computing technology through participation in open competitions. He won a Gold Award in the Hong Kong U-21 RFID Awards 2012 (Most Innovative EPC/RFID Application); and was Second Runner-up in 2013 Crossover Pan-Pearl River Delta Region Universities/Institution IT Project Competition (Hong Kong).
More recently, he has designed a mobile app "WheelMan" that offers up-to-date information on barrier-free facilities of shopping malls and restaurants. It also provides a platform for wheelchair users to exchange their experiences in travelling around. This project was selected for the Grand Award (Innovation Stream) of PolyU Micro Fund Scheme 2013. Last year, he also won the Grand Award (Innovation Stream) of PolyU Micro Fund Scheme 2012 with another computing project entitled: “ECLearn (Everyone Can Learn): A Tailored-made Learning System for the Disabled”.
Professor Jiannong Cao, Chair Professor and Head of Department of Computing said, “Our department is committed to nurturing talented students and providing them the best learning experience. It is meaningful to provide research opportunities to disabled students and we will support Shiu-fung’s research study.”
“Shiu-fung is an innovative and a hard-working student who possesses a strong dedication to use computing technology to help disabled people. Shiu-fung and I will try our best to continue Hiu-fung’s spirit and work.” Dr Henry Chan said.
