
[date]2014.02.19[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts stress management workshops for a balanced life[/title]
The Integrative Health Clinic (IHC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has kicked off the first workshop of “Mind the Body and Soul” – Stress Management Workshop Series today (19 February), with an objective to offer a range of daily stress coping strategies for achieving a  quality and balanced life. Over 70 PolyU staff and members of the general public have enrolled in the workshops.
Held in February and March on PolyU campus, the 5 workshops will be conducted by experienced health care practitioners from diverse backgrounds, including nurse consultant, dietitian, clinical psychologist, yoga master, registered Chinese medicine practitioner, and hypnotherapist. These professionals will unveil the daily tips of managing stress through interactive presentation, sharing, physical and mental activities and exercise, etc.

Date
Conducted by
Theme &amp; Content

19 Feb
Mr Frederick YeungNurse Consultant of PolyU’s School of Nursing (SN) Ms Esther YiuAdvanced Practice Nurse of SN
Self Understanding of Stress
overview on the origins of stress and its impacts
stretching and breathing exercises

26 Feb
Ms FT ChowDietitian Consultant Ms Echo LauRegistered Chinese Medicine Practitioner of SN
Inside Out - Way of Eating and Resting Right
sharing on how healthy and happy eating may relieve stress

1 Mar
Ms Eliza CheungClinical Psychologist and Psychological First-Aid specialist
Mind the Soul - Mindfulness Meditation
demonstration and practice of mindfulness meditation

5 Mar
Ms Natalie LuiCertified Laughter Yoga Teacher
Mind the Body - Laughter Yoga
laughter yoga exercise for relaxation

12 Mar
Dr Kelvin TangCertified Hypnotherapist, Hypnotherapy Instructor and Honorary Assistant Professor at The University of Hong Kong
Mind the mind - Hypnotherapy &amp; Self Hypnosis
interactive presentation and exercise on hypnotherapy
skills and strategies of coping stress

“Through the sharing and demonstration by different expertise, these stress management workshops can help participants to relax themselves and to attain work life balance. I am glad to see this initiative and hope to offer workshops of different natures to promote healthy life in the near future,” said Professor Alex Molasiotis, Chair Professor and Head of PolyU’s School of Nursing.
The Stress Management Workshop Series is part of IHC’s initiatives which aim at promoting multidisciplinary health management. IHC will continue organizing more workshops to this end.
About Integrative Health ClinicThe Integrative Health Clinic (IHC) is a centre for nursing research, education and health services.  The Clinic applies conventional nursing concepts, adheres to evidence-based practice, adopts an interdisciplinary approach, and integrates Western and Eastern health care modalities to offer one-stop, integrative health management and health protection services. Further details of IHC is available online at http://sn.polyu.edu.hk/en/services/integrative_health_clinic/index.html
About School of NursingPolyU’s School of Nursing is a diverse community of scholars and clinicians with a common goal to pursue academic excellence of practical value in nursing and healthcare services. Staff members of the School are making significant contributions to serve the local community and dedicating their knowledge and expertise to facilitate the development of nursing scholarship nationally and internationally. In partnership with the students, the School is co-constructing a learning community that appreciates high standards and pursues excellence in nursing practice. Further details of SN is available online at http://sn.polyu.edu.hk/en/home/
