
[date]2013.12.09[/date]
[title]PolyU academic awarded honorary doctorate in France[/title]
Professor Chu-ren Huang, Chair Professor of Applied Chinese Language Studies, Dean of the Faculty of Humanities of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), has recently been awarded an honorary doctoral degree (Doctor honoris casua) by the Aix-Marseille University in France in recognition of his distinguished accomplishment in the academia.
AMU is the largest university in France in terms of student headcount, with more than 70,000 students. The University has presented seven a total of honorary doctorate, and Professor Huang is the only Chinese scholar on this roll of honour. The list of awardees was approved by a stringent procedure with final approval from the French Ministry of Education, and the conferment ceremony was held on 25 November in AMU campus in Marseille. The last Chinese Doctor honoris casua recipient in humanities from University of Provence (a predecessor of AMU) was the Nobel Laureate Gao Xingjian. Coincidentally, Professor Huang's collaborators at AMU's CNRS Laboratoire Parole et Langage was awarded an international collaborative research grant with PolyU, entitled ViAMU, funded by AMU.
 "I am greatly humbled by this award to receive and shared this honour among and with leading scholars of the world. I do believe that this award also recognizes the impact and importance of PolyU in the international academia and hope that this award will raise PolyU's visibility in Europe and facilitate collaboration with universities in France in the future," said Professor Huang.
Professor Huang joined PolyU in 2008 and assumed deanship of the Faculty of Humanities in the same year.  He received his Ph.D. in Linguistics from Cornell University in 1987 and has since played a central role in developing Chinese language resources and in leading the fields of Chinese corpus and computational linguistics.
Professor Huang is one of the nineteen permanent members of the International Committee on Computational Linguistics.  He is a Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of the Humanities and currently also serve as its President. He is a current panel member for both the European Research Council's Senior Grant as well as Hong Kong's Research Grants Council (RGC)'s General Research Fund (GRF) grant. He is current President of the Asian Association for Lexicography; and was past president for The Association for Computational Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing (ACLCLP) and Linguistic Society of Taiwan (LST) in Taiwan.  He is the Editor in Chief of Cambridge Studies in Natural Language Processing as well as Lingua Sinica; and associate editor of Journal of Chinese Linguistics, and Lexicography. He also serves on the editorial boards of Computational Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing, Journal of Chinese Information Processing, Language Resources and Evaluation, and Taiwan Journal of Linguistics.
He is a life member of Association for Computational Linguistics, ACLCLP, Linguistic Society of America (LSA), The Linguistic Society of Hong Kong (LSHK), and LST. He serves as advisory committee member on several international conferences, such as Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation (PACLIC) and Chinese Lexical Semantics Workshops (CLSW); and was involved in organizing or founding others, such as The Computational Linguistic Society of the R.O.C. (ROCLING), OntoLex, Linguistic Annotation Workshop, International Committee on Computational Linguistics (ICLL) and Asian Language Resources Workshop.
AMU was formed in 2012 by merging three universities (University of Provence, University of the Mediterranean, and University of Paul Cezanne University), with its history trace back to 1409 for the first university founded in Aix-en-Provence. It is among top 5 universities in France. 
