
[date]2013.11.04[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Henry Cheng Research Laboratory for Drug Development naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a research laboratory on its campus after Dr Henry Cheng, Honorary Chairman of Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation, to pay tribute for his significant contributions to education and community services, as well as his ardent support to the University’s drug research and development.
At the naming ceremony held today (4 November), Dr Henry Cheng and Mr Peter Cheng, Chairman of Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation, officiated at the plaque unveiling and ribbon cutting ceremony in company with Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Council Chairman of PolyU; Mr Chan Tze-ching, Deputy Council Chairman of PolyU; Dr Patrick Poon, Treasurer of PolyU cum Chairman of the Fund-raising Committee of PolyU Council, and Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU. Management of Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation and New β Innovation also attended the ceremony to witness this memorable moment.
Addressing the ceremony, Ms Marjorie Yang appreciated Dr Cheng and the Foundation for their generous donation of HK$10 million to PolyU for drug development.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Tong said, "PolyU Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology (ABCT) has an excellent research team of chemistry and biology experts which is a perfect combination for drug development. This cross-disciplinary research collaboration has attained technological breakthrough in various research areas. The generous donation of Dr Cheng and Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation carries a very special meaning as it is recognition of the tremendous effort of our research team. It also provides additional resources for the University to develop a sophisticated platform for drug development, bringing positive impact to the world."
Dr Henry Cheng has played a prominent role in nurturing young talents. Through the Chow Tai Fook Charity Foundation, he has made substantial financial contribution to universities in support of campus, research and student development. Dr Cheng also demonstrates a profound concern towards children and young people who come from an underprivileged background by paying visits to these families and providing funding support to local social welfare agencies in their management of various community centres, where these youngsters can receive support for learning and personal growth.
Located on the seventh floor of the Lee Shau Kee Building on the PolyU campus, the "Henry Cheng Research Laboratory for Drug Development" has a total floor area of 537 square metres with state-of-the-art equipment. The Laboratory will provide the platform for an excellent research team of chemistry and biology experts to work together towards the common goal of developing new drugs for the benefit of mankind.
