
[date]2014.01.30[/date]
[title]PolyU and Henderson Land Group join hands to run the first Elderly Mini-U Programme 2014[/title]
The "Elderly Mini-U Programme 2014", a new initiative jointly launched by The Institute of Active Ageing (IAA) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Henderson Land Group Property Management Department (Henderson), came to a successful close on 19 January 2014.  A total of 40 elderly students enrolled for the programme, which was meant to encourage senior citizens to make good use of their leisure time and to promoting lifelong learning.
Among the students were retired employees and current employees' family members of Henderson, residents of residential properties of Henderson, and members referred by NGOs. To encourage participation, Hang Oi Charitable Foundation provided full or half programme fee subsidy to all elderly students.
IAA has specially designed a series of interesting and practical classes for the elderly students, ranging from English, Putonghua, Chinese medicine, law to positive psychology and total wellness. Mr Lam Chiu Ying, former Director of the Hong Kong Observatory, was engaged as the 'star lecturer' of the Programme and gave talks about the climate and environmental conservation. In addition, health checks, campus tour and visits to the House of Innovation and Optometry Clinic were arranged to help the elderly students better understand their health conditions and comprehend innovative technologies.
Six year-one PolyU students from Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Ageing Studies programme served as student ambassadors during the one-week programme. Apart from providing assistance during the lecture, they also accompanied the elderly students throughout their stay in the campus, thus helped nurture integration between generations.
A graduation ceremony was held on 19 January at PolyU, with Dr The Honourable Leong Che-hung GBM, GBS, JP, Chairman of The Elder Academy Development Foundation cum Chairman of the Advisory Committee of IAA, and Mr Suen Kwok Lam, MH, JP as the officiating guests. The elderly students, in academic gowns and caps, received their graduation certificates from the officiating guests. Mrs Teresa Tsien Wong Bik-kwan, Director of IAA, thanked Henderson Land Group for their support and encouraged students to keep on learning and enjoy a wonderful life.
