
[date]2013.12.03[/date]
[title]PolyU and HK Museum of History jointly present Cheongsam Fashion Show[/title]
To promote the "Hong Kong Week 2013@Taipei" hosted by the Hong Kong-Taiwan Cultural Co-operation Committee in association with the Hong Kong Economic, Trade and Cultural Office (Taiwan), the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Hong Kong Museum of History have jointly staged the "Legacies &amp; Innovations: Cheongsam Fashion Show" at Eslite Xinyi Flagship Bookstore in Taipei. 
The "Legacies &amp; Innovations: Cheongsam Fashion Show", which was held on 29 November 2013, was an eye-catching curtain-raiser for the grand opening of this year’s "Hong Kong Week" in Taipei. The show was well attended by government officials and representatives of arts groups from both Hong Kong and Taiwan, including Mr Tsang Tak-sing, Secretary for Home Affairs; Mr Fredric Mao Chun-fai, Convener of Hong Kong-Taiwan Cultural Co-operation Committee; Mrs Betty Fung Ching Suk-yee, Director of Leisure and Cultural Services; and Mr John Leung, Director of Hong Kong Economic, Trade and Cultural Office.
As one of the Hong Kong Week's extension activities, the show aims at offering a cultural exchange platform for designers from Hong Kong and Taiwan, which illustrates the unique fashion styles of the two cities. It also helps to foster public interest and knowledge in traditional cheongsam.
The show featured 46 outfits of cheongsams from 19 PolyU ITC fashion design staff, alumni and students, as well as four design staff from two fashion schools in Taipei: Fu Jen Catholic University and Shih Chien University. These modern cheongsams incorporate the latest trends in fabric, style, cut and accessories that enhance the charisma and cosmopolitan feel of the dress.
To echo the overwhelming response of this unique fashion show, the creative collections will be displayed at PolyU's ITC Fashion and Textiles Resource Centre in March 2014.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
