
[date]2013.11.19[/date]
[title]PolyU's Faculty of Business Partners with Dale Carnegie Training to offer Leadership Programme[/title]
The Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) signed a partnership agreement with Dale Carnegie Training of Hong Kong &amp; Macau (DCT) today (19 November) to jointly deliver an undergraduate programme named "Generation.Next: Global Leadership for the 21st Century".  This is the first time that DCT partners with a university in Hong Kong to offer a one-year course.
Aimed at nurturing students to become future leaders, the programme will start in January 2014. Participants will go through a three-stage training which covers professional development, a selection competition and leadership training.
Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of PolyU's Faculty of Business, remarked that the Faculty "places special emphasis on preparing students for the business world and honing their soft skills in areas like leadership." He hopes that Dale Carnegie will bring fresh ideas and practical methods for nurturing the young students.
Mr Alexander de Laiglesia, President of DCT, said "Our training covers fundamental principles for achieving success in work and life. These core concepts for transforming behaviour are uniquely Dale Carnegie." The company is pleased to help students become leaders through application of time-proven techniques. He added.
"Generation.Next: Global Leadership for the 21st Century" is a new initiative of the Faculty's "Enabling Development through Guidance and Equipping" (EDGE) programme. EDGE supports and facilitates students' workplace learning and development. It enhances their exposure to the business community and entrepreneurship and their all-round development.
Dale Carnegie, headquartered in New York, provides performance-based training for corporations, government agencies, teams and individuals around the world. It works with more than 400 of the Fortune 500 companies worldwide and many of the largest business leaders in Hong Kong.
