
[date]2013.09.24[/date]
[title]PolyU students broaden exposure through overseas service-learning trips[/title]
Some 100 students of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) participated in four overseas service-learning trips to Cambodia, Rwanda, Indonesia and Vietnam in the summer of 2013. They have done extraordinary things to bring 'light' and 'hope' to the underprivileged people in the local communities. Through serving the needy in overseas countries, PolyU students have broadened their horizons and developed themselves into responsible global citizens. 
An International Service-Learning Celebration was held yesterday (23 September) during which students shared with the collaborating agency partners, the Consulate Generals and other guests what they have done and learnt and what they have been touched by in their trips. Students brought back many impressive stories and unforgettable memories.
Miss Helen Zhang, a Year Two student of Global Supply Chain Management who joined the trip to Indonesia, said besides donation, there are many other things she could do to help the people in need. She will participate in more volunteering activities in the near future and apply the skills she has learnt from this subject.
Themed 'Technology without boundary', PolyU students taught local primary school children and orphans in Cambodia and Rwanda how to use software for digital storytelling, animation programming and making robotic cars. They also set up computer labs and intranet system in non-governmental organization (NGO) and provided training for their staff to make use of social media for publicity purposes. Some students developed solar panels to facilitate children's learning at nighttime. In addition, a team of students conducted a survey in slum villages of Cambodia and the data collected are useful for NGO in identifying the needs of the villagers.
In Indonesia, students joined hands with the local community in a 25-day project organized by Duta Wacana Christian University of Indonesia and PolyU to draw up strategies for developing the potentials of a village. By using GPS technology and satellite images, students and the local villagers gained a deeper understanding of the local resources and their needs. Making use of spatial information analysis, students came up with solutions to address the problems faced by the local community, thereby driving sustainable rural development.
The University also organized the first service-learning trip to Vietnam where participating students provided services for blind children, the elderly in a social protection centre, children with mental or physical disabilities, and local villagers. In addition, they paid visits to local families to learn more about their culture and problems faced.
Since 2004, PolyU has run a non-credit-bearing Community Service Learning Programme with an aim of nurturing students' sense of social awareness through serving the community with their professional knowledge and skills. To further promote the spirit of serving the community, PolyU has incorporated service learning into its four-year university curriculum from 2012/13.
 
 
