
[date]2013.11.13[/date]
[title]PolyU gears up for aviation services research in partnership with Boeing[/title]
Backed by strong support from the government and industry, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has garnered more momentum for the advancement of aviation services research in Hong Kong through its partnership with industry leader Boeing. 
The University today (13 November) celebrated the opening of the Phase One of its Aviation Services Research Centre (ASRC), co-founded by PolyU and Boeing. Dr Greg Hyslop, Vice President and General Manager of Boeing Research &amp; Technology, has made a special trip to open the ASRC together with PolyU Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak and President Professor Timothy W. Tong.
The ASRC Phase One is located at the basement of PolyU's Industrial Centre. In the next phase, the University will demolish an old building (Block X) on campus to make way for the construction of ASRC.
"The Aviation Services Research Centre will further enhance Hong Kong's leading position as a world-class service provider of MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) and steer the development of aviation related industries in China," said Professor Timothy W. Tong.
Meanwhile, PolyU has secured funding support from the Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) and participation of key industry players such as Boeing, Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Ltd (HAECO) and Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Ltd (HAESL) in the ASRC.
With ITF fund amounting to $19.44 million, PolyU has already embarked on two aviation services research projects that will address the pressing needs of MRO industry: (1) Laser Projected Drilling Templates &amp; Robotic Drilling; and (2) Mechanical Refurbishment of Aviation Parts.
The first project will design a process to enable the use of a portable laser drilling template for the MRO industry. It is expected to save manpower and streamline the work flow of replacing parts for an aircraft outer skin. The second project will develop advanced methods of mechanically refurbishing aircraft parts and greatly reduce the cost of maintenance. This will be achieved by delivering multi axis probing new technology and the world’s first mechanized method to remove distortion from turbine backing ring seals.
Through its partnership with Boeing, PolyU will seek to raise the standard of MRO industry and help it to scale new heights. The process is expected to bring huge economic benefits to Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland as MRO supply chain is a huge, long growing and high profit generating business.
The ASRC is backed by top-notch expertise at PolyU Industrial Centre (IC) which boasts a strong track record of making state-of-the-art space tools and its close relationship with aerospace industry. PolyU IC made its mark internationally for making space tools for the Russian Space Agency and the European Space Agency. It also supports the making of the space tools for China's lunar exploration. Locally, PolyU IC has been working closely with China Aircraft Services Ltd, HAECO and HAESL.
The ASRC will also bridge the gap between academic research findings and industrial exploitation in advanced MRO technologies and applications. It will also make contributions to ensure a steady supply of well-trained and highly-skilled manpower to meet the increasingly complicated demand of the MRO industry.
