
[date]2013.11.29[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts seminar on social media analytics and intelligence[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)’s Department of Computing organized a distinguished seminar on social media analytics and intelligence on 20 November 2013. Joining the seminar were two distinguished speakers, namely Dr Alain Chesnais, Co-Founder and Chief Scientist of Trendspottr; and Mr Edmund Lee, Chief Executive Officer of K-Matrix, who is also an alumnus of the University.
In his opening speech, Professor Jiannong Cao, Chair Professor and Head of the Department of Computing welcomed the visit of Dr Chesnais and reiterated the importance of big data analytics and smart computing technologies in the new social media. He also congratulated the achievements of the two alumni (Mr Edmund Lee and Dr Chuang Siu Nam) of PolyU Computing for putting computing technologies into useful services for the benefit of our society.
The profile of speakers and their topics are listed as follows:
Dr Alain Chesnais
Dr Alain Chesnais is Co-Founder and Chief Scientist of Trendspottr. A renowned computing expert, Dr Chesnais was president of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, between 2010 and 2012. He also served as president of ACM SIGGRAPH (ACM's Special Interest Group on Graphics and Interactive Techniques) from July 2002 to June 2005 and as SIG Governing Board Chair from July 2000 to June 2002. Formerly chief technology officer at Scene Caster, he served as director of engineering at Alias Wavefront on the team that received an Oscar award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for developing the Maya 3D software package. He is currently leading research efforts on real time analytics for social media. In the seminar, he presented innovative predictive analytics services and technologies, which identify the most timely and trending information from any big data stream.
Mr Edmund Lee
Mr Edmund Lee is Chief Executive Officer of K-Matrix, who co-founded the company with another PolyU Computing alumnus, Dr Chuang Siu Nam in 2004. The company has now grown to become one of the leading companies in digital intelligence in Hong Kong. K-Matrix has received various awards, including Hong Kong ICT Awards 2013 - Best SME ICT (Product) Gold Award, China Outstanding Software Product Awards 2010, 2011 and 2012, and 2012 Hong Kong Awards for Industries Technological Achievement Award. He shared his experience in digital intelligence. Currently, K-Matrix is also collaborating with Associate Professor Dr Korris Chung of the Department of Computing on a research project supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund.
The seminar also marked the beginning of collaboration between Trendspottr, K-Matrix and PolyU Computing on real-time big data analytics services for social media. Associate Professor Dr Henry Chan of the Department of Computing and his student demonstrated a preliminary mobile app tentatively called “Public Relations Intelligent Monitoring Engine (PRIME)”, which seeks to integrate technologies provided by Trendspottr and K-Matrix to monitor social media intelligently and effectively.
