
[date]2013.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU to host aviation seminar and launch new programme[/title]
In preparing for the launch of Hong Kong's first BEng(Hons) in Air Transport Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has won over the support of senior industry personnel. The University will be hosting a seminar titled "Aviation: From Ground to the Sky" on 30 November 2013 to heighten awareness of career prospect in the aviation and MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) industry.
Hosted by PolyU's Faculty of Engineering, the seminar has brought together distinguished speakers from the industry to give talks on a wide range of topics as follows:
Aviation: Beyond Your Imagination   Mr Norman Lo, Director-General of Civil Aviation of the HKSAR Government
The Challenge of Flying in the Sky   Mr Aaron Luk, Training Pilot of Cathay Pacific
Low Cost Carrier Approach – Successful and Unsuccessful Factors   Mr Samson Sum, Team Manager (Cargo Operations), Jardine Airport Services
Aircraft Design – Approaching to Green   Professor Alan Lau Kin-tak, PolyU's Department of Mechanical Engineering
Professor Alan Lau Kin-tak, who is also involved in designing the new programme, is pleased to note that the aviation seminar has received overwhelming responses, with more than 300 registration forms received from tertiary students, engineers and members of professional bodies. Professor Lau had spent four years of apprenticeship at The Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Ltd (HAECO) before he pursued further studies in Aerospace Engineering.
Subject to Senate's approval, PolyU will offer the BEng(Hons) in Air Transport Engineering in 2014/15 academic year with an initial intake of 40 students.  Application will be invited soonest in December 2013. The new programme aims at providing students with the fundamental principles and practices that are critical for training competitive professional engineers in air transport engineering to meet the manpower need of the local and global aviation industry. This is a two-year Government-funded full-time top-up degree programme.
Students will be required to complete 66 credits plus 4 training credits. Professional accreditation by the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers and The Royal Aeronautical Society of the UK will be sought. Applicants are required to have the qualification of Higher Diploma or Associate Degree in relevant engineering disciplines.
PolyU boasts a strong partnership with key industry players in the aviation industry. The University opened the Phase One of the Aviation Services Research Centre (ASRC), co-founded by Boeing and PolyU, on 13 November. It will also demolish an old building (Block X) on campus to make way for the construction of ASRC. Eminent members of the ASRC include Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Ltd (HAECO) and Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Ltd (HAESL).
