
[date]2013.11.27[/date]
[title]PolyU &amp; NAAC co-organize 'Integrative Fashion Design Challenge 2013'[/title]
The first "Integrative Fashion Design Challenge 2013" co-organized by Troels H. Povlsen Care Apparel Centre (CAC) under the Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and The Neighbourhood Advice-Action Council (NAAC) has come to a fruitful close. The aim of this competition is to equip students of our community with the knowledge to show concern for the clothing needs of the elderly and disabled.
This was also the first fashion design concept competition in Hong Kong with teams combining of students, the elderly and disabled. During the challenge, students have gained much knowledge on the difficulties faced by the elderly and disabled in their daily lives. By joining hands with them, the students not only unleashed their design talents but also embraced diversity in our society. 
This year over 200 students took part in the competition. They came from more than 20 higher educational institutes and secondary schools, including PolyU, School of Continuing and Professional Studies of The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Technological and Higher Education Institute of Hong Kong, Australian International School Hong Kong (Secondary), St. Stephen's Girls College, Heep Yunn School, True Light Girls' College, St. Paul's School (Lam Tin), Lai King Catholic Secondary School, Shau Kei Wan East Government School, STFA Lee Shau Kee College, etc.. Through the event, students have enhanced their communication skills and teamwork spirit.
The award presentation ceremony was held at Chan Sui Kau and Chan Lam Moon Chun Square in PolyU on 23 November, 2013. A total of 20 participating teams showcased their specially designed care apparel for the elderly and disabled at the ceremony. The design work was full of creativity, such as raincoat hood that opens automatically, Chinese style "Cheong Sam" for full figured elderly and jacket with hidden neck cushion.
The ceremony was officiated at by Mr Siu Tak-kwong, Deputy Executive Director of NAAC; Professor Kwok-yin Wong, PolyU Dean of Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles; Professor John Xin, Chair Professor and Head of PolyU Institute of Textiles and Clothing; and Dr Frency Ng, Director of CAC. Some of the winning entries maybe adopted for producing care apparels for the elderly and disabled.
