
[date]2013.11.08[/date]
[title]Inauguration of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Association[/title]
Formed by the past recipients of the "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award", the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Association (OPAA) held its inauguration ceremony on 7 November on the campus of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).   PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong was the officiating guest of the ceremony. More than 80 guests, including members of PolyU Council and representatives of local and non-local alumni associations, attended the function. During the ceremony, Professor Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing, President of the Association, announced the Association had set up the OPAA Scholarship Fund for supporting the University’s student development programmes. He hoped that the Association, by doing so, could inspire more alumni to continuously contribute towards their alma mater.
The formal establishment of the "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Association" was initiated in 2012 and a working group led by Professor Kenneth Pang was subsequently formed to work on the procedures for incorporating the Association. The Association aims to unite all the awardees and gathers their expertise and momentum to support the future development of PolyU and the advancement of the community.
The first Board of Directors (2012-2014) of the Association includes the following members:
President:   Professor Kenneth Pang Tsan-wing (2001 Awardee) Deputy President:  Professor Royce Yuen Man-chun (2009 Awardee) Honorary Secretary: Professor Samuel Wong King-on (2003 Awardee) Honorary Treasurer: Ms Jessie Yu Sau-chu (2011 Awardee) Directors:   Dr Hubert Chan Chung-yee (2013 Awardee) Ir Dr Chan Fuk-cheung (2013 Awardee) Dr Rebecca Lee Lok-sze Rebecca (2003 Awardee) Ir Dr Otto Poon Lok-to (1999 Awardee) Professor Tsoi Ah-chung (2001 Awardee) Professor Philip Yeung Kwok-wing (2005 Awardee)
The Honorary Patron of the Association is Dr the Hon. Leung Chun-ying, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. He is also one of the awardees of the first selection of "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award".
Launched in 1996, the biennial "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" aims at honouring outstanding graduates of PolyU and its forerunners – the Government Trade School, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Polytechnic – for their distinguished professional accomplishments and significant contributions to the community and their alma mater. As of this year, more than 50 distinguished alumni in various professions have been honoured and they are fine testimony of PolyU's accomplishments in nurturing professional talents for the community.
For more details of the Association, please visit its official website at URL: www.opaa.hk
