
[date]2014.05.20[/date]
[title]PolyU Signed Tripartite Agreement with Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne and University of Houston Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management[/title]
The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL) and Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management of the University of Houston (CNHC) have come together to sign a Letter of Intent (LOI) to establish a tripartite master's degree in global hospitality business. The three institutions, representing the best of the East and the best of the West, join hands to nurture talents of a new generation and define the future of the global hospitality industry's development.
The signing ceremony took place today at the SHTM's teaching and research hotel, Hotel ICON, was presided over by Dr Fabien Fresnel, EHL Dean of Education and Research, Professor Kaye Chon, SHTM Dean and Chair Professor, and Professor John Bowen, CNHC Dean and Barron Hilton Distinguished Chair of the University of Houston.
The three institutions saw this agreement as an important step to promote stronger links among the three continents and provide added value for the students. Dean Fresnel said, "We are bringing three cultures together and are capitalising on three outstanding faculties and campuses. We will create a unique experience for the students, and will ultimately enhance their ability to become the next generation of business leaders who can think global and act local."
Under the LOI, the three parties have agreed to establish a new educational programme to be launched in 2015, the Master of Science (MSc) in Global Hospitality Business. The LOI stipulated that a common curriculum for the MSc degree meeting the academic standards and regulations of the respective institutions should be developed. Upon graduation, students of this unique programme will receive the MSc in Global Hospitality Business degree awarded by their home institution and a "Certification of Completion" issued by the other two partner institutions.
"Formulated with the EHL and SHTM", observed Dean Bowen, "this innovative educational strategy will enable participants to effectively lead organisations in a world that has become very connected." "When they graduate," he continued, "they will not only have a global educational experience, but will also have established network of global leaders, those they met on their journey and their classmates that took the journey with them."
Conceived in the spirit of the SHTM's innovation, this pioneering educational strategy allows students from Europe, Asia and North America to spend one semester in each of the three continents. "The programme is expected to produce a new breed of future leaders with strong global perspectives and an understanding of cultural emersion in the global hospitality business," said Professor Kaye Chon.
About PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM)
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 65 academic staff drawing from 20 countries and regions, the School offers programme at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was bestowed the McCool Breakthrough Award in 2012 by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel – Hotel ICON – the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education.
SHTM website: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm
About Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne
Rooted in the Swiss sense of hospitality Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL) has, since 1893, been a pioneer in education that has inspired the world of hospitality and created a unique professional community of 25,000 global industry executives who share the same values based on EHL's distinctive heritage.
As the world's premier reference in hospitality management, EHL offers university-level studies to talented and ambitious students who are aiming for top careers in the international hospitality industry. Three programmes are offered:
Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management
Bachelor of Science in International Hospitality Management
Executive MBA in Hospitality Administration
Today, EHL provides an enriching environment with world-class faculty and ultra-modern campus facilities to some 2,000 passionate students from close to 90 countries.
EHL website: www.ehl.edu
About University of Houston Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management
Established in 1969, CNHC has a current enrollment of 1,050 students, of which 960 are undergraduate students and 90 are pursuing a Master Degree in Hospitality Management. The College is a global influence in the hospitality industry and is regarded as one of the top hospitality education programmes in the world. CNHC offers degrees on its campuses in Houston, Lima and San Antonio. The College's Houston facilities include a 370,000 square foot facility with a full service hotel and extensive classrooms and laboratories.
CNHC's industry relationships are evidenced in part by the close relationship it has with industry associations. The College houses the American Hotel and Lodging Association (AH&amp;LA) Information Center. The Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals (HFTP) Research Institute is also located within the College. CNHC houses largest archival collection of personal and corporate histories, documents and memorabilia of industry-leading companies and icons. The Hospitality Industry Hall of Honor brings industry icons to the College each fall.
CNHC website: www.hrm.uh.edu
