
[date]2014.05.28[/date]
[title]PolyU stages Knitwear Fashion Show[/title]
The creative flair and design talent of graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) have won applause from the industry at the Annual Knitwear Fashion Show held today (28 May) at The Mira Hong Kong.  
With the concerted effort of ITC design students, various knitwear producers and yarn suppliers, the annual Knitwear Fashion Show has showcased 21 collections of four outfits from 21 graduating students majoring in knitwear design. The raw materials and manufacturing techniques for the show were sponsored by knitwear producers and yarn suppliers.
Professor John H. Xin, Head and Chair Professor of ITC, said, "The sweater industry is an important branch of the fashion business, especially in Hong Kong. The knitwear they produce is quite different from other fashion products in terms of design and manufacture. It is also worth noting that dedicated fashion show for knitwear is rare and our Knitwear Fashion Show presented by ITC is one of the very few regular events of this kind around the world. This fashion show not only demonstrates the ability and creativity of the knitwear design students, but also further enhances the collaboration between the industry and ITC."
Mr Joe Leong, CEO of UPW and Title Sponsor of the Show, remarked, "We recognize the importance of excellence in design as the way to progress our knitwear industry forward. So UPW is delighted to be working with PolyU to promote and nurture talents to the next generation of young dynamic designers. While encouraging students' creativity, we regard the support of this Show as our social responsibility to support their practical awareness of modern manufacturing techniques through live experience, to make the education process more relevant and vital."
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue careers in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
