
[date]2014.03.05[/date]
[title]Branch Key Lab of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing opened at PolyU[/title]
The PolyU Branch of Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, jointly established by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU), commissioned today (5 March 2014). Through fostering strategic research collaborations between PolyU and SYSU on Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing and facilitating the development of talents, the Key Laboratory will further enhance its impact in the international arena. 
The opening ceremony of the branch laboratory was officiated at by Professor Alexander Wai, Vice President (Research Development) of PolyU and Mr Xia Lianghui, Assistant President and Executive Deputy Director of Office of Scientific Research and Development of SYSU.  Also joining the ceremony were:  Ms Dong Meiling, Deputy Director of Office of Scientific Research and Development of SYSU, Professor Jun Zhang, Dean of School of Advanced Computing of SYSU, Professor H.C. Man, Dean of Faculty of Engineering of PolyU, and Professor Cao Jiannong, Head of Department of Computing of PolyU.
Speaking at the ceremony, Professor Wai said, "The establishment of the branch laboratory serves as a recognition of our Department of Computing's distinctive success in undertaking world-class research and delivering high-quality education over the past 40 years. It will not only foster the long-term collaborations in the fields of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing between PolyU and SYSU, but also benefit educational and research development in the Pearl River Delta region."
Mr Xia Lianghui said, "Built on the solid foundation of the Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing at SYSU, the branch laboratory will help train talented young researchers and step up the research and scholarly exchanges between the two institutions. Capitalizing the research strengths of SYSU and PolyU, the laboratory will be instrumental to advancing the technology frontier for the benefits of the nation's development."
Professor Cao Jiannong, Head of PolyU's Department of Computing and Director of the new branch laboratory, remarked that the Department takes pride in setting up the branch laboratory at PolyU to further facilitate knowledge exchange and collaborations between researchers of the two institutions, and enhance the Department's research excellence and innovation.
