
[date]2014.02.17[/date]
[title]PolyU honours outstanding students of the year[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) presented a total of 33 Outstanding Student Awards to 26 top full-time undergraduate students, among which eight students received "Outstanding Student Award of Faculty/School" and one received "The Most Outstanding PolyU Student Award", at a ceremony held on PolyU Chiang Chen Studio Theatre today (17 February).
In the ceremony, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong addressed "PolyU makes endeavour in holistic development of students in both academic and non-academic pursuits. The awardees are shining examples of our success in nurturing all-round leaders for our society." He also encouraged soon-to-graduate students to realize themselves as "practical dreamers" by well equipping themselves and unleashing their talents; and more importantly to contribute to the alma mater and the society in the future.
This year, "The Most Outstanding PolyU Student Award" went to Mr TRAN Nhat-Quang Ken, a final-year Vietnamese student in Hotel Management and the first international student for this honour. Ken started his study at PolyU in 2010. As a newcomer to Hong Kong, he well adapted to different culture and overcame challenges positively. With keen interest in Chinese culture and history, he minors in Chinese Language. He always topped his class and received PolyU Entry Scholarship for three years, HKSAR Government Scholarship 2012/13 and SHTM Academic Achievement Award 2010/11 and 2011/12. Selected as Elite Management Trainee, he worked as a summer intern at Hotel ICON in Hong Kong and Goldman Sachs in Singapore. This high achiever is also an outstanding International Student Ambassador of PolyU. In the past two years, Ken had visited eleven international schools in seven East-Asian countries to share his fruitful study experience in PolyU and Hong Kong. He gained rich experience from various international conferences in South Korea, Malaysia and Canada and the overseas exchange programme at Boston University in the U.S.
The other seven awardees, who are also final-year high achievers, include:
Mr. WAN Li, Faculty of Applied Science and Textiles
Mr. YE Xiaoxiong, Faculty of Business
Miss LI Tsz-wing, Faculty of Construction and Environment
Mr. HU Yijiu, Faculty of Engineering
Mr. LAM Tat-chung Chris, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences
Mr. YIP Wai-ting Wilson, Faculty of Humanities
Mr. LEE Kwok-kwong, School of Design
Mr. WAN Li, studying Engineering Physics at the Department of Applied Physics, topped his class on the Dean's Honours list in the past three years. He received PolyU Scholarship in 2011/12 and President Emeritus Professor Poon Chung-kwong Scholarship in 2012/13. He also won the Excellent Service Award in the 3rd International Conference of Optofluidics 2013.
Mr. YE Xiaoxiong, studying accounting and finance, received numerous scholarships. He received PolyU Scholarship 2011/12 and the Hong Kong Jockey Club Scholarship 2011/12 &amp; 2012/13 and was on the Dean's Honours List for two years. He won the Outstanding Academic Achievement Award in 2012/13. Besides, he actively participated in community services and had been an Assistant Audit Trainee of Internship at KPMG.
Miss LI Tsz-wing is a surveying student from the Department of Building and Real Estate on the Dean's Honours List in 2010/11 and 2012/13. She received Wong Dun-king Scholarship and Hong Kong Mediation and Arbitration Centre (HKMAAC) Professional Award Scheme in 2012/2013 and HKSAR Government Scholarship 2011/12. She is HKMAAC's Associate Member and won the second runner-up in its Joint University Mediation Competition last year.
Mr. HU Yijiu, studying Enterprise Engineering with Management at the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, topped his class for four years. He received HKSAR Government Scholarship for three years and Institute of Industrial Engineers (HK) Scholarship 2012/13, and won awards "Creative Competition on MPF" and "Acer Incredible Green Contest and Inter-University Multimedia". He also joined exchange programme in University of Technology Sydney in Australia.
Mr. LAM Tat-chung Chris, a nursing student, topped his class for three years. He received Innovation and Technology Scholarship Award 2013 and HKSAR Government Scholarship 2012/2013 and 2013/14. He actively participated in community services and joined attachment programme in John Hopkins University in the U.S. and clinical placement in Beijing Hospital.
Mr. YIP Wai-ting Wilson, majoring in Chinese and Bilingual Studies, was on the Dean's Honours List and received the HKCC Scholarship and China Daily Hong Kong Limited Scholarship in 2012/13. He had served as the Master of Ceremony of various talks and seminars, the team leader of MTR Campaign Support Team, and the summer intern at Samsung Electronics.
Mr. LEE Kwok-kwong, a top design student, received M Moser Scholarship and Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong Scholarship in 2012/13. This active contestant won the Mandarin Oriental Design Competition and the first runner-up in M Moser Future Workspace Competition in 2013. He had also worked as Summer Intern in a studio in Taiwan.
A cash prize of HK$5,000, HK$3,000 and HK$2,000 is awarded to each recipient of "The Most Outstanding PolyU Student", "Outstanding Student of Faculty/School" and "Outstanding Student of Department" respectively, accompanied by a certificate. Awardees' names for "The Most Outstanding PolyU Student Award" and "Outstanding Student Award of Faculty/School" are inscribed on a plaque to be erected at a prominent spot on campus for one year.
The Outstanding Student Awards are given annually to students in recognition of their outstanding academic performance, strong leadership ability and active involvement in extra-curricular activities and community services. Starting from this year, a new departmental level is introduced with three award categories listed below: (1) Each academic department of a faculty selects an outstanding student to receive the "Outstanding Student Award of Department"; (2) The outstanding student of each academic department then competes with those from other departments of the same faculty for the "Outstanding Student Award of Faculty"; together with the outstanding students selected by the schools not under the purview of a faculty, eight awardees then go for "Outstanding Student Award of Faculty/School"; and (3) "The Most Outstanding PolyU Student" are selected among the eight awardees from six faculties and two independent schools.
