
[date]2014.06.03[/date]
[title]Inaugural Open-Studio Annual Show kicked off at PolyU Jockey Club Innovation Tower[/title]
The School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU Design) kicked off its Annual Show at the Jockey Club Innovation Tower (ITower) today. For the first time, exhibits are located at galleries and open-studios on multiple floors of the building. Public audience is welcome to visit the Show and explore the architecture of the ITower recently opened by its architect Zaha Hadid.
The Annual Show was kicked off by the Guest of Honour Mr Richard Kelly, Chief Catalyst of Fung (1937) Management Limited; Professor Daniel T.L. Shek, Associate Vice President (Undergraduate Programme) of PolyU; and Professor Cees de Bont, Dean of PolyU Design.
Celebrating the 50th Anniversary of PolyU Design, the visual identity of this year’s Annual Show follows the question: “Design for what?” With a question mark as a key visual statement, it invites young and experienced designers to explore what their core values are in our world that will become increasingly complex in the next 50 years.
The exhibits propose brilliant ideas for people, places, and issues from a variety of design disciplines including advertising, digital media, environment &amp; interior, industrial &amp; product, interactive media, and visual communication at the Master’s, Bachelor’s and Higher Diploma levels. Multimedia projects and installations will certainly attract those who are intrigued by ideas that make innovative use of technologies. Some of the highlighted projects include:
Advertising design: A Piece of Good Life by Dick AUThe stray cows in Mui Wo have become a nuisance to tourists and residents. Dick proposes a comprehensive advertising campaign on building a suitable place for cows to live, and turning disturbing waste into constructive use, like mosquito repellent, potted plant fertilizer etc. to rectify the infamy of the cattle.
Product design: homeRecipe by Jenny TONGThis product connects housewives who wish to share their authentic recipes out of home with the community. It helps to improve their confidence and strengthen social cohesion. This mobile cooking workshop is destined to become a public performance stage for cooking demonstrations and will enhance the productivity of its users.
The Show is open free of charge to members of the public from 4 June to 12 July Monday to Saturday. Guided tours are provided to introduce selected exhibits, School of Design and the architecture of Jockey Club Innovation Tower. Interested parties have to sign up online in advance. Website: www.PolyUDesignShow.com
The opening dates and hours are as follows:
4 June to 12 July 2014Monday to Saturday11:30 AM to 7:30 PMJockey Club Innovation Tower, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon
 
