
[date]2014.06.18[/date]
[title]Design for Well-Being Award encourages creative designs to improve well-being and healthy living[/title]
The China Hong Kong Chapter, Alliance for Healthy Cities (AFHC) and Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) jointly organize the first-of-its kind Design for Well-being Award for Asia and the Western Pacific Region.  The Award aims to recognize, celebrate, promote, and inspire creative solutions that improve well-being and healthy living in contemporary cities.
Sponsored by The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust, there are three award categories in the competition, namely, Product Design, Space Design, and Communication Design. On top of one gold and a number of merit awards in each category, there will be one Grand award and one special jury mention for all categories from outstanding entries from the Asia/Western Pacific region. These will be selected by a panel of judges comprising of Henry STEINER, renowned designer, Rocco YIM, JP, award-winning architect, Cees DE BONT, Dean of School of Design of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), and representatives from the organizers.
Scarlett PONG, JP, Chairman of the 6th Global Conference of the AFHC's organizing committee says, "As Hong Kong gears up for the competitive creative landscape, innovation and design have become more and more relevant, if not essential, to the promotion of public health. Thanks to The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust's sponsorship of this pre-conference initiative, AFHC and J.C.DISI are glad to collaborate in this professional design competition to give recognition to cutting-edge designs, making cities and their inhabitants healthy."
Alvin YIP, Director of J.C.DISI, affirms, "We aspire to make this a regional highlight at the interdisciplinary crossroads of health, design, and architecture, and energize the creative industry's efforts to improve the well-being of not just groups with special needs, such as children and the elderly, but also the average citizen."
Entries can be submitted online at www.designwellbeing.org from 18 June 2014 to 28 July 2014. Finalist entries will be displayed in the Social Innovation Festival exhibition gallery in the Jockey Club Innovation Tower at PolyU from 10 to 19 October 2014, and the winners will be announced at the gala dinner of the 6th Global Conference of the Alliance for Healthy Cities on 29 October 2014.
For details of the competition, please visit: http://www.designwellbeing.org/
For details of the conference, please visit: http://www.afhc2014.org.hk/
About the China Hong Kong Chapter, Alliance for Healthy Cities
The "Healthy Cities" movement was initiated by World Health Organization (WHO) in 1986. The Alliance for Healthy Cities (AFHC) is an international network aimed at protecting and enhancing the health of city dwellers. It was founded in 2003 at the inaugural meeting held at the World Health Organization Regional Office for the Western Pacific in Manila, Philippines. Through the network of the Alliance, members can collaborate through knowledge exchange, experience sharing, research development and capacity building programmes to get inspired for making the best use of the Healthy Cities approach. Members of the AFHC include municipal governments, national governments, NGOs, private sectors, academic institutions, and international agencies.
The first Healthy City Project (HCP) of Hong Kong was initiated in Sai Kung District in 1997. This first-ever HCP was featured by its bottom-up approach where tremendous efforts have been made in engaging the community to promote health awareness and to make collaborative efforts in building a healthy community. A cohesive partnership infrastructure across sectors conducive to sustainable development has also been built. To consolidate the work of various administrative districts and to take forward the "Healthy Cities" initiative in a synergistic manner, the China Hong Kong Chapter of the AFHC was established in September 2007.
The Chairman of the China Hong Kong Chapter, Alliance for Healthy Cities is Dr. George NG Sze-fuk, GBS, JP.
About Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation
Initiated by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust in 2012, Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) convenes university expertise, curates cross-disciplinary projects, and constructs partnerships for social well-being and positive systemic change. Being the first design institute dedicated to social innovation in Asia, J.C.DISI will focus on articulating creative and alternative solutions to today's complex challenges: urban sustainability, ageing population, family and youth, social entrepreneurship, as well as empowering technologies for the disadvantaged.
J.C.DISI's bilingual knowledge platform: http://www.socia.hk
Social Innovation Festival: http://www.10dayfest.hk
