
[date]2014.06.08[/date]
[title]PolyU Receives Hong Kong Red Cross Special Merit Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) received the Special Merit Award (non-commercial category) today (8 June) at the Annual Donor Award Ceremony presented by the Hong Kong Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service (Hong Kong Red Cross) in recognition of PolyU’s support for blood donation all these years. PolyU has organized the Blood Donation Weeks for 57 times since 1973. The number of blood donation days totaled 227, the highest among all tertiary institutions in Hong Kong.
The Special Merit Award (non-commercial category) is established by the Hong Kong Red Cross to honour nonprofit organizations for their extraordinary contribution in organizing the blood donation programmes which help to maintain a stable blood supply in Hong Kong. PolyU is the first tertiary institution in Hong Kong to receive this accolade.
“We are very honoured to be the first university in Hong Kong to be awarded this prize. PolyU endeavors to serve and contribute to the community. We have been supporting and promoting blood donation in the PolyU community over the years, and shall continue with its efforts. We are delighted to see that not only do our students and staff excel academically, but also make significant contribution to the community”, said Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU.
Receiving the award on behalf of the University, Professor Alex Molasiotis, Chair Professor and Head of PolyU’s School of Nursing said, “This award is an acknowledgement of PolyU’s efforts in supporting blood donation. Committed to promoting health and well-being, School of Nursing has been collaborating with Hong Kong Red Cross to organize the Blood Donation Weeks. We believe that this award will further encourage the PolyU community to proactively participate in the Blood Donation Weeks and help those in need.”
The School of Nursing organizes the Blood Donation Week at PolyU campus three times per year starting from 2009. A total of 33,191 students, teachers and staff members have actively participated in the PolyU Blood Donation Weeks since 1973.
 
