
[date]2014.05.07[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Design features an exhibition on Shaanxi culture and design innovation [/title]
The School of Design at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is staging "Heaven and People in One, Generation by Generation – an exhibition on Shaanxi culture and design innovation" at the Jockey Club Innovation Tower from 7 May to 26 May 2014. This exhibition aims to promote cultural integration with design education in an unprecedented scale, and to present the best of Shaanxi culture and amazing innovation abilities of Shaanxi artists and craftsmen/women to the design industry, design education sectors, and art communities in Hong Kong. It is a showcase of collaboration between PolyU and Xian Jiaotong University with the establishment of a joint research center on creative culture industries for western China.
The exhibition features the works of 12 distinguished artists, designers and non-material culture research and conservation experts. Their works include Ansai paper cut, Ansai farmers painting, Xunyi paper cut, clay sculptures, shadow puppet, Chen Cang Shehuo face painting, patch arts, Yaozhou porcelain, Shaanxi opera performances, Shaanxi opera music, calligraphy, photography, documentaries etc. They come with rich and unique experiences of life, works of full imagination, colors, and wonders, demonstrating naturally and convincingly the master pieces that have been created with the inherited essence of culture tradition and wisdom of several thousands of years in history.
Returning to the source of culture is the key to upgrading product design and innovation capability of China. China's cultural and creative industries are rapidly rising, which will drive the next wave of sustainable environmental and economic development. Shaanxi has the roots of Chinese culture where folk arts and crafts have survived for more than 3,000 years. The artists and craftsmen/women have a wealth of life experience and superior innovation capabilities.
The School has invited Ars Mathematica, France to join the exhibition. Their exhibit, "Materials for Inventions", represents their latest research which is at the frontier of international research community. Together with the master pieces from Shaanxi with strong local characteristics, these works showcase the success of collaboration and the creation of a collective existential experience.
This exhibition obtained sponsorship and strategic collaboration from Fazeya of HYX group, and the sponsorship from Shaanxi Association for Cultural and Economical Exchange. This strategic collaboration with Fazeya will enable artists and craftsmen/women to increase the values of their works through branding and innovation, forming a new example of collaborative design.
