
[date]2014.08.29[/date]
[title]Blood Donor Centre Opens at PolyU[/title]
To start a "blood donation fever" for the whole city, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) School of Nursing has further strengthened its collaboration with the Hong Kong Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service (BTS), Hospital Authority (HA) to set up an on-campus blood donor centre at its Integrative Health Clinic (IHC), offering blood donation services to the university students, staff, as well as the general public.
Head of PolyU's School of Nursing Prof. Alex Molasiotis said, "The establishment of the on-campus blood donor centre marks a significant milestone for the School of Nursing in our continuous effort to support blood donation and contribute to the community. The School has been collaborating with HA BTS since 1973. We have organized the Blood Donation Weeks for 58 times with total 230 blood donation days which is the highest among all tertiary institutions in Hong Kong. The total number of blood donors reaches a record of 33,319. We are very pleased to partner with HA BTS to encourage more people in the community to participate in the blood donation activities."
Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President said, "This is an extremely meaningful collaboration. PolyU has been awarded the Hong Kong Red Cross Special Merit Award earlier in recognition of our contribution in organizing blood donation programmes. We are very honoured to be the first tertiary institution to receive this accolade and be one of the only two universities in Hong Kong to set up the on-campus blood donor centre. This is a great step forward for PolyU to further promote blood donation to serve and contribute to the community."
Located at the IHC of School of Nursing of PolyU, the centre will not only serve as a convenient blood donation point for the general public, but may also become a learning platform for knowledge exchange. It may provide learning opportunities for our nursing students to experience primary health care practice in the community, and may offer research possibilities for faculty members. This is in line with the mission of IHC to serve as a centre for health services, nursing research, service-learning and intellectual exchange.
The on-campus blood donor centre will commence its service starting from 1 September 2014 from 11:00am to 6:00pm (Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays closed).
With the establishment of the on-campus blood donor centre at the centre of the city, the PolyU is providing a convenient and professional venue to encourage more PolyU members, particularly university students, and general public to give blood to stabilize the blood supply and give patients in need hope and the necessary transfusion treatments.
About IHC
The Integrative Health Clinic (IHC) is a multi-disciplinary clinic which integrates health assessment service, conventional Western and Eastern health care modalities, complementary therapies, mental health management and health protection services. It is also a centre for nursing research, and service-learning and intellectual exchange. Further details of IHC is available online at http://sn.polyu.edu.hk/ihc
About School of Nursing
PolyU's School of Nursing is a diverse community of scholars and clinicians with a common goal to pursue academic excellence of practical value in nursing and healthcare services. Staff members of the School are making significant contributions to serve the local community and dedicating their knowledge and expertise to facilitate the development of nursing scholarship nationally and internationally. Further details of SN is available online at http://sn.polyu.edu.hk
About HA BTS
The Hong Kong Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service (BTS), Hospital Authority (HA) is the only public institution collecting and providing blood to all hospitals in Hong Kong. The HA BTS is committed to ensuring an adequate and safe blood supply in Hong Kong. Its vision is to be one of the world's leading blood transfusion services in achieving zero blood risk and fulfilled blood donation experience
