
[date]2014.10.25[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour five distinguished personalities at 20th Congregation[/title]
Presided over by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak and President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the 20th Congregation held today (25 October) saw the conferment of honorary degree upon five distinguished personalities and sent forth 11,072 graduates. The ceremony was held in the Jockey Club Auditorium on the university campus.
The five honorary degree recipients this year are (in alphabetical order of last name): Dr Christopher Cheng Wai-chee, GBS, OBE, JP, Chairman of Wing Tai Properties Limited; Professor Leon O. Chua, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences of University of California, Berkeley; Dr Irwin Mark Jacobs, Founding Chairman and CEO Emeritus of Qualcomm Incorporated; Professor Yan Jun-qi (in absentia), Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and Director of China Institute of Education Policy; and Professor Andrew Yao Chi-chih, renowned computer scientist and educator of pre-eminent international standing. 
Upon congratulating graduates, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong expressed concern over the latest social row and said "We should do everything possible to avoid further escalation of the conflict. As we understand them, the issues are complex, and they will take time to resolve. Let us follow the path to collaboration, not confrontation; take a macro view, not just a narrow perspective; be constructive, not destructive; be respectful, not vengeful. Let us work together rationally and constructively to bring an end to the standoff, restore public order and repair our divided society. Let us resume our normal life."
Professor Tong would like to see more practical dreamers at this critical point of time who are capable of devising innovative solutions to solve problems. He said, "Idealism is admirable, but it often takes pragmatism to achieve results. Within the legal framework for constitutional development, let the possibilities inspire us more than the obstacles discourage us." He appealed to all stakeholders to engage in constructive dialogue in the upcoming consultation and identify the way forward.
He added, "We all cherish freedom and are keen to safeguard our rights. But we can never do that without respecting diversity and difference. Along with rights come responsibilities. Freedom is contingent upon mutual respect and tolerance. Physical violence and verbal abuse threatens such freedom and breaks down communication." Professor Tong reminded that it is understanding and negotiation that bring resolution.
The University has a total of 11,072 graduates this year, including 182 Doctor of Philosophy,
56 discipline-based Doctor's degree, 52 Master of Philosophy, 3,974 Master's degree, 5,284 Bachelor's degree, 39 postgraduate diploma and certificate and 1,480 sub-degree award recipients.
