
[date]2014.12.10[/date]
[title]PolyU supports relief work, reconstruction and disaster prevention in post-quake Yunnan[/title]
Ludian County, Zhaotong City of Yunnan was struck by a 6.5 magnitude earthquake on 3 August 2014. Capitalising on its network in the Chinese mainland, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) mobilized its team trained at the "Institute for Disaster Management and Reconstruction (IDMR)" jointly established by PolyU and Sichuan University, along with a team of PolyU cross-disciplinary professionals to the quake-stricken areas to provide immediate relief support, training and education in nursing, rehabilitation and psychotherapy. PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) Professor Angelina Yuen hosted a press conference today (10 December), joined by other PolyU representatives, to share about PolyU's contribution in relief work, reconstruction and disaster prevention in post-quake Yunnan.
Jointly established by PolyU and Sichuan University, the IDMR received generous support from The Hong Kong Jockey Club for developing its hardware and software. Officially opened in 2013, a number of professional programmes were introduced in IDMR to sustain PolyU's relief support, reconstruction and disaster prevention work in the Chinese mainland. This helped equip the Chinese mainland with a professional team to provide immediate relief support in the event of disaster. Professor Angelina Yuen said, "PolyU has brought revolutionary breakthroughs to the post-quake reconstruction planning of Yunnan, which included the new concept of establishing a social work services support system in the quake-stricken areas. Spearheaded and co-ordinated by the Director of Ministry of Civil Affairs' Department of Social Work and Yunnan Provincial Civil Affairs Department, a social work services support group for quake-affected areas in Ludian was set up through cross-provincial support. In addition, PolyU established the Chinese mainland's first Medical Social Work Station. This cross-disciplinary collaboration enabled social workers and nurses to collaborate and provide psychotherapy treatment to patients, revolutionizing the way how medical practitioners and social workers used to work independently".
In addition to establishing the Chinese mainland's first Medical Social Work Station, family therapy, game therapy, art therapy and music therapy were also used to treat post-quake trauma. Dr Timothy Sim, Associate Professor of PolyU's Department of Applied Social Sciences, and his team provided training to the social workers and staff from five support teams from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Sichuan and the China Association of Social Workers. They shared their experience and skills in relief support, disaster reduction and psychotherapy, so as to sustain and facilitate community reconstruction work after the departure of the PolyU team.
Professor Cecilia Li, Professor of PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences led a team to Zhaotong City First People's Hospital and Ludian County People's Hospital in August 2014, providing immediate post-operation rehabilitation solutions to patients and training to local medical practitioners. As therapists in the Chinese mainland lacked specialized physiotherapy and occupational therapy training, this new post-earthquake specialized rehabilitation concept was instrumental in facilitating rehabilitation of emergency and trauma cases, mitigating long-term harmful effects and function loss. In the Chinese mainland, patients normally received medical treatment in hospitals only without follow-up upon discharge. Professor Li and her team will go to Yunnan again in mid-December to introduce new concepts of community and home-based rehabilitation by providing training to local therapists to sustain home visits. Community and home-based rehabilitation work includes: assessing the physical, psychological and rehabilitative needs of patients before discharge, and assistive devices required; conducting home visits after discharge of patients to help improve their home facilities to better suit their needs; assessing patients' rehabilitation progress, evaluating and suggesting home training required to help them better integrate to society.
In addition, PolyU's School of Nursing had also been very supportive in the provision of assistance in post-disaster, reconstruction and disaster prevention work. Dr Sijian Li, Teaching Fellow of PolyU's School of Nursing and her team went to Zhaotong City First People's Hospital during 2-9 September 2014. The team introduced a new nursing concept to the local hospital, providing specialized emergency nursing training to frontline nurses, including rehabilitation care, wound care, pain management and infection control. Except for hospitals of the highest level, frontline nurses in the Chinese mainland mainly focused on basic nursing care and lacked specialized nursing training. Specialized nursing tasks were taken care of by doctors. Specialized nursing training could effectively improve nursing quality, and in turn allow doctors to focus on more complicated patient cases, improving emergency medical services. Apart from training, the team went to Ludian Longtoushan Central Health Centre, a community-based hospital at the disaster-hit area of Ludian, during 10 September – 2 October 2014 to provide immediate nursing care to 2,528 patients, relieving nursing shortage. The team also provided healthcare and first-aid training to villagers, raising their awareness of public health and disaster prevention.
PolyU's post-quake reconstruction work in Yunnan received generous support from The Hong Kong Jockey Club and Zeshan Foundation etc for relief support, training and education work in quake-affected areas.
