
[date]2014.12.09[/date]
[title]Launch of Tripartite Master of Science in Global Hospitality Business by Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne, PolyU and University of Houston Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management[/title]
School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL), and the Conrad N. Hilton College at the University of Houston (UH) have joined forces to offer an exceptional Master's programme in Global Hospitality Business.
Representatives from the three universities and industry leaders joined a conference on 8 December to officially launch the Master of Science (MSc) in Global Hospitality Business. Spanning across three continents with unparalleled professional immersion, the new and unique programme will start in September 2015.
Professor Michel Rochat, General Director EHL, opened the event and expressed his enthusiasm for this new programme, "We are very excited to launch this Master's programme with our partners in Hong Kong and Houston, USA. Each university is a recognised leader in hospitality management education and, together, we aim to offer students the most advanced Master's degree in the sector."
"In a world that has become very connected, it is vital future leaders have strong international perspectives and an in-depth understanding of local markets. Cultural immersion is key to a holistic approach to the global hospitality business," added Professor Kaye Chon, Dean SHTM. "Throughout this intensive programme, students will spend one semester on each campus and benefit from the exposure and knowledge gained in each market."
Professor John Bowen, Dean Hilton College, elaborated, "The hospitality sector has tremendous growth perspectives for the years to come, and our graduates will have a unique advantage in tomorrow's job market".
As presented by Dr Fabien Fresnel, Dean EHL, "This Master's programme was designed in close collaboration with top players in the hotel, tourism and service industry, and students will benefit from a strong professional immersion during their curriculum."
Master of Science in Global Hospitality Business Programme
"Glocal" ExpertiseEvolving in small classes of about 30 persons, students will begin their curriculum in Switzerland at the EHL, then move to the SHTM in Hong Kong for their second semester, spend 3 months in residence with an international hospitality company and finally complete their third semester at the Hilton College in Houston, Texas.
Unparalleled Professional ImmersionUpon graduation, students of this exceptional programme will receive the MSc in Global Hospitality Business degree awarded by PolyU and a "Certificate of Completion" issued by the EHL and UH respectively.
Professional CertificationsThe 4-to-5-day workshops will allow students to receive insights from hospitality professionals and complete a report on competitive analysis, market study, property performance review, feasibility study, impact analysis, and/or pipeline development analysis with live industry data, providing students with practical and real-life exposure.
Business Field TripsDuring each semester, students will participate in Business Field Trips to tourism hubs on each continent. They will get an exclusive chance to meet and discuss with the major players in the field locally.
Capstone ProjectsStudents will be assigned a Capstone project to complete throughout their Master's programme. Assembled in small teams and coached by our experts, students act as consultants to a global company during their entire curriculum, including 3 months at the company's headquarters. It is a unique opportunity for corporations to obtain insights from multinational, driven young professionals on real-life mandates.
A Growing SectorAs the hospitality sector grows, hospitality specialists must incorporate a deep-rooted understanding of global market dynamics, client experience, innovation and hospitality marketing, beyond the general business management skills.
A Memorable ExperienceThe programme offers students the experience of a lifetime. 18 months of intense courses, challenging projects, cultural immersion, motivating interactions, notable contacts and global travelling make this an exceptional programme.
For more information, please visit: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/msc/glhb
About PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM)
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 65 academic staff drawing from 20 countries and regions, the School offers programme at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was bestowed the McCool Breakthrough Award in 2012 by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel – Hotel ICON – the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education.
SHTM website: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm  @PolyUSHTM
About Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne
Rooted in the Swiss sense of hospitality Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL) has, since 1893, been a pioneer in education that has inspired the world of hospitality and created a unique professional community of 25,000 global industry executives who share the same values based on the EHL's distinctive heritage.
Three programmes are offered:
Bachelor of Science in International Hospitality Management
Executive MBA in Hospitality Administration
Master of Science HES-SO in Global Hospitality Business (starting September 2015)
As the world's premier reference in hospitality management, the EHL offers university-level studies to over 2,100 talented and ambitious students from more than 90 countries.
EHL website: www.ehl.edu @EHLnews
About University of Houston Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management
The Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees at The University of Houston, a Carnegie-designated Tier One public research university serving more than 40,500 students in the most ethnically and culturally diverse region in the United States.
Home to the Hospitality Industry Hall of Honor, the Hospitality Industry Archives and a state-of-the-art beverage and food lab, Hilton College is consistently ranked among the top hospitality program in the world.
CNHC website: www.hrm.uh.edu @HiltonCollege
