
[date]2014.06.27[/date]
[title]PolyU joins hands with HKATH to host the 1st International Conference on Horticultural Therapy and Therapeutic Landscaping[/title]
The Centre for Gerontological Nursing (CGN) of School of Nursing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) joins hands with Hong Kong Association of Therapeutic Horticulture (HKATH) to kick off the First International Conference on Horticultural Therapy for two days from 27 June (today) at the PolyU campus to promote the knowledge on evidence-based practice in horticultural therapy and therapeutic landscaping. The conference was co-organized by Pi Iota Chapter, the Honor Society of Nursing, Sigma Theta Tau International and Asia Pacific Association of Therapeutic Horticulture (APATH).
Themed "Horticultural Therapy and Therapeutic Landscaping for Health and Well-Being", the Conference has attracted more than 360 local and overseas participants from various fields including health care professionals, academics, horticultural experts and therapists, social workers, students, etc., to share their thoughts and insights on this topic. The conference covered theory, evidence, and applications of horticultural therapy and landscaping. It also offered a unique opportunity for scholars and practitioners to advance knowledge on the use of horticultural therapy and landscaping on healthcare setting.
The Conference was officially opened by Prof. Claudia Lai, Acting Head of PolyU's School of Nursing and Director of CGN, and Ms Connie Fung, President of HKATH and Secretary of APATH. Addressing the ceremony, Prof. Claudia Lai said, "CGN strives to conduct research that generates impact on geriatric nursing practice, and frailty is its key research focus. With the application of horticultural therapy getting common in healthcare setting, the centre has collaborated with HKATH to carry out pilot study on horticultural therapy on palliative care patients. Through organizing the conference, we hope to further facilitate research work on horticulture activities which benefit the well-being of frail elderly people, as well as people in the community."
"Horticultural Therapy is a new emerging profession in Hong Kong. In our projects with PolyU's CGN, there is evidence showing that Horticultural Therapy could bring positive impacts to patients in terms of spiritual and psychosocial aspects. HKATH is committed to promote horticultural therapy. The association will continue to share the Horticultural Therapy knowledge and practice so that it can be widely applied in various health care and social service settings in Hong Kong," said Ms Connie Fung, President of HKATH and Secretary of APATH.
Renowned experts in the field were invited to deliver keynote speeches to talk about the latest development on horticultural therapy and therapeutic landscaping, including Prof. Paula Diane Relf from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) in USA; Prof. Candice Shoemaker from Kansas State University in U.S.A.; Prof. Chun-Yen Chang from National Taiwan University in Taiwan; and Prof. Sheng-Jung Ou from National Chung Hsing University in Taiwan. During the Conference, faculty members from PolyU’s School of Nursing, Prof. Claudia Lai, Dr Yim-wah Mak, and Dr Mimi Tse also shared their findings on horticultural activities with frail elderly people and mentally challenged adults.  
In addition to the conference, exhibition on overseas adaptive tools, poster displays, book introduction, as well as a number of mini workshops were held onsite for participants to understand more about horticultural therapy, and let them experience how people's body, mind and spirit can be improved through the plants and gardening activities.
For more details of the conference, please visit its official website: http://www.hkath.org/Conference.html
About Centre for Gerontological Nursing
The Centre for Gerontological Nursing of School of Nursing of PolyU is dedicated to the promotion of health for older people and their families through endeavors in research, practice and education in a variety of healthcare settings. CGN aims to provide advanced training for nurses in state-of-the-art elderly care, particularly with respect to the frail older population.
About Hong Kong Association of Therapeutic Horticulture
Hong Kong Association of Therapeutic Horticulture is established in January 2008 with the goals of promoting the profession of Horticultural Therapy; and providing communication platform on Horticultural Therapy to members, supporters and the public.
