
[date]2014.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU pays tribute to six distinguished Chinese visiting scholars[/title]
Six renowned scholars from the Chinese mainland were honoured by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (25 November) at the Presentation Ceremony of the Distinguished Chinese Visiting Scholars Scheme, presiding over by PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong.
Since its launch in 1994, the Scheme has facilitated more than one hundred renowned Chinese scholars to visit Hong Kong for presenting a series of public lectures and seminars on their areas of expertise on PolyU campus. The scholars also exchanged views with colleagues and students from different departments and offered their valuable advices on a wide range of topics.
The six distinguished Chinese visiting scholars of 2014 are Professor Ding Han, Dean of School of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology; Professor Huang Huijun, Professor of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS); Professor Xu Guanhua, leader of Expert Advisory Group of the National Basic Research Programme (973 Programme); Professor Mei Hong, Vice President and Professor of Shanghai Jiao Tong University; Professor Huang Wei, President of Nanjing University of Technology; and Professor Yang Xiurong, Professor of Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, CAS.
Professor Ding Han is Dean of School of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) and Director of State Key Laboratory of Digital Manufacturing Equipment and Technology, HUST. Prof. Ding has long dedicated himself to the research work in the field of digital manufacturing and successfully combined the robotics and manufacturing technologies. He proposed the theory of machining of complex surfaces with high strip widths, thus exploring the error propagation mechanism hidden in the interior of "tool motion – cutter envelop – machining error". He further established the full-discretization method for prediction of machining stability to ensure high-performance machining without chatter vibrations. Moreover, he presented the robotic motion planning and geometric reasoning method, and developed a "Measuring-Manipulating-Machining" (3M) system for grinding of large impellers. His research results have been extensively applied in the aerospace, energy and automobile industries. Prof. Ding has published three academic books and more than 150 SCI journal papers, and he has been awarded more than 20 patents. He received the Second-class National Natural Science Award, and twice the Second-class and once the Third-class National Science and Technology Progress Award. He was elected a member of CAS in 2013.
Professor Wang Huijun is an atmospheric physics expert, the first in China to couple an Atmospheric General Circulation Model with a mixed layer ocean model and a thermal sea ice model, and simulated the climate changes induced by the CO2 doubling. His result was cited by the 1992 Supplementary Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). He has many contributions towards improving the seasonal climate prediction in China and most of his work are original and have importance to the operational climate prediction. He has published more than 230 journal papers in China and other countries, among which, more than 140 SCI-extended papers. He has served as the Chief Editor of Advance in Atmospheric Science and is currently the Chief Editor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Letters. His academic honours include the Second-class National Natural Science Award and the Prize for Scientific and Technological Progress of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation. Prof. Wang was elected as a Member of the CAS and a Member of the Norwegian Academy of Technological Science in 2013.
Professor Xu Guanhua is an expert in remote sensing and geographic information. He has acted as the leader of Expert Advisory Group of the National Basic Research Programme (973 Programme) since 2011. Prof. Xu has long been engaged in the study of remote sensing, earth information science and organization management of science and technology. He was in charge of science projects for the national sixth, seventh and eighth five-year plans for 15 years (1981-1995). He has achieved breakthroughs in computer image analysis and processing as well as satellite images used to study resource-regenerated investigation, making significant contributions to the science and technology development of remote sensing and geographic information system in China. Prof. Xu has contributed a lot to implementation of system reform, promotion of scientific and technological innovation and industrialization of science and technology. He has made a lot of excellent work for formulation of the National Medium and Long-term Science and Technology Development Plan (2006-2020).
Professor Mei Hong is Vice President and Professor of Shanghai Jiaotong University as well as Director of Key Laboratory of High Conference Software Technologies of Ministry of Education (Peking University). A renowned expert in computer software, Prof. Mei has been mainly engaged in research of software engineering and system software, with outstanding achievements in middleware for component-based software, development methods and tool environment. He has twice served as the Chief Scientist of the National Basic Research Programme of China (973 Programme). Prof. Mei has published more than 150 research papers, and he has been awarded more than 10 patents. He has received numerous awards in recognition of his contributions to research, including the Second-class National Natural Science Award, the Second-class National Technology Invention Award, the Second-class National Science and Technology Progress Award, and the Prize for Scientific and Technological Progress of Ho Leung Ho Lee Foundation. In 2005, he was awarded as Cheung Kong Chair Professor of the Cheung Kong Scholars Programme. In 2011, he was elected as a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. In 2013, he was elected a Fellow of the World Academy of Sciences for the Advancement of Science in Developing Countries.
Professor Huang Wei, President of Nanjing University of Technology, is one of the leading scholars in the field of organic optoelectronics research. He is a Chair Professor of the Cheung Kong Scholars Programme and the Chief Scientist of the National Basic Research Programme (973 Programme). Prof. Huang has published several books, including Organic Optoelectronics. As one of the 1% most highly cited material scientists in the world, he has an h-index of 61, having thus far published more than 700 SCI listed publications with more than 13,000 citations. He has earned and published more than 280 patents in the USA, Singapore and China. He is an editorial board member of top international journals such as Nature, Advanced Materials, and Journal of the American Chemical Society. He has received numerous awards, including the Second-class National Natural Science Award and the First-class Jiangsu Provincial Science and Technology Award. He was elected a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2012.
Professor Yang Xiurong, Professor of Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, is a scientist in analytical chemistry. Her research interests are in the study of electro-analytical chemistry, biomolecular recognition and interaction, and micro-fluidic system. She has invented many chemical and biosensors for the detection of pollutants in food, environmental and clinical substances. She and other co-workers have developed optical extinction combined with phase measurements for probing DNA-small molecule interactions. Also, she and other co-workers have developed a real-time, on-line molecular recognition electrochemical analyzer as well as a multi-channel electrochemical micro-analyzer. Her achievements have made significant contributions to the scientific development in relevant fields. Prof. Yang has published more than 280 SCI papers, and she has been awarded 13 patents. She has received the Second-class National Natural Science as well as four times of the First-class Progress Award of Science and Technology of Jilin Province. In 2013, she was elected as a Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
