
[date]2015.03.30[/date]
[title]PolyU honours eight outstanding alumni[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will present its 10th "Outstanding Alumni Award" to eight alumni in recognition of their distinguished professional accomplishments and significant contributions to their community and alma mater. The award presentation ceremony will be held on 19 May 2015 (Tuesday).
The award recipients, in alphabetical order of last name, are:
Mr Eric Chan Ping-pang, Founder and President, ECCO Design, USA
Ir Chan Siu-hung, Managing Director – China, CLP Holdings Ltd.
Ir Prof. Choy Kin-kuen, Director – Structural, Meinhardt (C&amp;S) Ltd.
Ir Dr David Ho Chi-shing, JP, Group General Manager, Hong Kong Ferry (Holdings) Co. Ltd.
Dr Edith Kwan Ngan-hing , Fellow and Honorary Advisor, Hong Kong Computer Society
Dr Polly Lau Mo-yee, Cluster Manager (Physiotherapy), Kowloon Central Cluster and Department Manager of Physiotherapy Department, Queen Elizabeth Hospital
Dr Johnny Ng Kit-chong, Founder and Chairman, Goldford Group
Mr Wan Feng, President, Centre Testing International Corporation
Jointly organized by PolyU and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations, the biennial "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" aims at honouring outstanding graduates of PolyU and its forerunning institutions – the Government Trade School, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Polytechnic – for their remarkable professional achievements and contributions to the community and their alma mater. Over the years, PolyU and its forerunning institutions have sent forth more than 350,000 graduates. Launched in late 1996, this year marks the 10th award presentation. More than 50 distinguished alumni in various professions have been honoured in the past award selections and they are fine testimony of PolyU's accomplishments in nurturing professional talents for the community.
The seven-member Panel of Judges is chaired by Dr Tung Chee-chen, Chairman of Orient Overseas (International) Ltd. and Honorary Chairman of Court of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Ms Shirley Chan Suk-ling, 1st Vice President of Chinese Manufacturer's Association of Hong Kong and Chief Executive Officer of YGM Trading Ltd.; Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Chairperson of Equal Opportunities Commission; Ir. Prof. Johnny Fan Siu-kay, President of Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Prof. Royce Yuen Man-chun, Chief Executive Officer of New Brand New and Deputy President of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Association; and Mr Lincoln Yung Chu-kuen, Chairman of Shanghai Commercial Bank Ltd.
Biodata of the recipients of "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award":
Mr Eric Chan Ping-pang
Higher Diploma in Design/ 1976 (Hong Kong Polytechnic)
Upon his graduation from the Polytechnic, Mr Chan went to the US to pursue a Master's degree from the prestigious Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan. Upon graduation from the Academy in 1980, he worked for four years at Henry Dreyfuss Associates in New York. In 1988, he became founding President of ECCO Design, a global leader in the design industry. Brand-name clients of the New York-based company include Herman Miller, Lexus, Apple and LG Electronics.
Listed among the ten most influential designers in the US by Contract Magazine in 2007, Mr Chan has won many prestigious awards, including "IDEA Awards" from the US, "Red Dot Award" from Germany, and "World's Outstanding Chinese Designer Award" from the Hong Kong Design Centre in 2010. His works have been featured in major museums around the world, including MOMA in New York. He also holds over 50 international patents and inventions.
 
Ir Chan Siu-hung
Diploma in Electrical Engineering/ 1977 and Higher Diploma in Electrical Engineering/ 1979 (Hong Kong Polytechnic)
Ir Chan has moved up the corporate ladder at CLP Power Hong Kong since he joined the Group as a graduate trainee engineer in 1981. Having gained the exposure to various functional areas in the electricity supply industry from design, construction to asset management, he became Manager Director–China in 2013, overseeing the Group's China business covering approximately 40 technological projects with a cumulative investment amount of over $10 billion. Ir Chan also serves as the board director of the Group's 50-plus subsidiary or affiliated companies.
He has a distinguished track record of service to the community leading to appointments with various public bodies, including member of the Government's Council for Sustainable Development and of the Construction Industry Council, and Convenor of the Risk Communication Advisory Group of the Centre for Health Protection. Maintaining close links with PolyU, he is a member of our Advisory Committee on Civil and Environmental Engineering.
 
Ir Prof. Choy Kin-kuen
Higher Diploma in Structural Engineering/ 1974 and Associateship in Structural Engineering/ 1975 (Hong Kong Polytechnic)
As a fresh graduate determined to pursue a long-term career in his chosen profession, Ir Prof. Choy worked two years as a Site Engineer at Hip Hing Construction Co., Ltd. before joining the government as Structural Engineer in 1977. Rising through the ranks over a distinguished professional career spanning over three decades, Ir Prof. Choy was promoted to Assistant Director of the Buildings Department in 2006. Remaining in the senior position until his retirement in 2011, he was responsible for setting and reviewing policies and strategies on building control relating to structural engineering.
Currently Director of Structural at Meinhardt (C&amp;S) Ltd, Ir Prof. Choy served as President of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers between 2012 and 2013, and Director of the Hong Kong Green Building Council between since 2011. A loyal supporter of his alma mater, he has been Adjunct Professor for PolyU's Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering since 2004.
 
Ir Dr David Ho Chi-shing, JP
Higher Diploma in Business Studies (Transport)/ 1979 and Endorsement Certificate in Transport Planning &amp; Traffic Engineering/ 1982 (Hong Kong Polytechnic); Doctor of Business Administration/ 2002 (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University)
With over three decades of solid experience in ferry operations, Ir Dr Ho has been the Group General Manager of the Hong Kong Ferry (Holdings) Co. Ltd. since 1996. Through the various leadership positions he has held and personal efforts made in corporate social responsibility initiatives, he has made significant contributions to the both the local transport and logistics industry and the community at large. Currently Chairman of Education Bureau's Logistics Industry Training Advisory Committee, and Vocational Training Council's Transport Logistics Training Board, and a General Committee Member and Chairman of the Transport and Logistics Services Council of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries.
Amongst his commitments to nurturing the next generation, Ir Dr Ho is an Adjunct Professor at the City University of Hong Kong, and a member of the Standing Committee on Language Education and Research. In recognition of his active participation in public and social services, he was conferred the VTC Honorary Fellowship in 2007.
 
Dr Edith Kwan Ngan-hing
Doctor of Business Administration/ 2003 (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University)
A veteran information and communications technology (ICT) professional with over 30 years of experience, Dr Kwan was the Director of PolyU's Information and Technology Services Office in the mid-1990s. Since ceasing to be Secretary General at the Hong Kong Computer Society in 2006, she has been contributing to IT profession and education on a mostly volunteer basis by spearheading IT professional certification and holistic rehabilitative services, and serving as an external examiner for University of South Wales, UK.
Dr Kwan has also been active in her participation in public and social services. A recipient of the Medal of Honour from the SAR Government in 2014, she has been offering expert advice on IT-related issues to various government bureaus and offices. In addition, she has been Vice Chairperson of the Hong Kong Society for Rehabilitation since 2010, and is currently Chairperson of the new e2Care Project, a $20-million project sponsored by the Hong Kong Jockey Club.
 
Dr Polly Lau Mo-yee
Doctor of Health Science/ 2008 (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University)
Since 2003, Dr Lau has been Cluster Manager (Physiotherapy) of Kowloon Central Cluster and Department Manager of Queen Elizabeth Hospital. Apart from introducing innovative therapies, she has pioneered Robotic Therapy for severely disabled neurological patients at Queen Elizabeth Hospital. As a dedicated leader in her professional field, she holds the record as the longest-serving President of the Hong Kong Physiotherapy Association from 2001 to 2009. As a Physiotherapy Board member, she has contributed not only to the continual professional development of physiotherapists, but also to the formation of the Hong Kong College of Physiotherapy as its Founding Fellow in 2007.
In recognition of her outstanding service to her profession and the community at large, she has received numerous awards, such as Queen Elizabeth Hospital's Outstanding Staff Award in 1998 and Outstanding Team Award in 2013, Award for Professional under Yau Tsim Mong Healthy City Programme in 2012 as well as Hospital Authority Outstanding Staff Award in 1999.
Dr Johnny Ng Kit-chong
Bachelor of Engineering in Manufacturing Engineering/ 1996 and Doctor of Philosophy / 2002 (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University)
After obtaining his doctoral degree from PolyU, Dr Ng finished his studies of Post-doctor research degree at Tsinghua University in 2006. From 2001 to 2009, he was Chairman of Titanium Technology Ltd., a leading supplier of digital identification products based on biometric face-recognition technology. In 1999, he founded Goldford Group and has since been Chairman of the Group. A Greater China concept technology investment firm, Goldford focuses on early-stage opportunities in TMT (technology, media and telecommunications), education, and creative industries through seed angel funding, integrated consultancy and strategic networking.
In acknowledgement of his outstanding contributions to the innovative field of engineering and technology, he was awarded "Hong Kong Ten Outstanding Young Digi Person" in 2000, "Innovative Entrepreneur of the Year" for 2003 sponsored by Hong Kong Science and Technology Park, and "Top Ten Outstanding Cantonese Youth" in 2013. He was honoured with PolyU's Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering "Distinguished Alumni Award" in 2007.
 
Mr Wan Feng
Master of Business Administration/ 2006 (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University)
Mr Wan is President of Centre Testing International (CTI). CTI is not only the pioneer in third-party testing certification consultancy, but within merely six years after its establishment, was listed on the Growth Enterprise Market, thus becoming the first listed third-party testing certification institution in China.
A string of awards garnered under Mr Wan's forward-looking entrepreneurship include the Deloitte Technology Fast 50 China Program in 2008, and a place in the Forbes list of "China Up-and-Comers" in 2010 and 2011. An honourable recipient of the Mainland Programme Graduates Distinguished Achievement Award in 2012, he offers scholarships via CTI for PolyU's Faculty of Business students and facilitated the recruitment of PolyU graduates for rewarding careers at CTI.
