
[date]2014.07.04[/date]
[title]PolyU enhances collaboration with Southwest Jiaotong University on High-Speed Rail[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University will further participate in the nation’s High-Speed Rail through its PolyU Shenzhen Base. As a registered legal entity in the Chinese mainland, the PolyU Shenzhen Base announced its strategic partnership with Southwest Jiaotong University Railway Development Co. Ltd. of Southwest Jiaotong University (SWJTU), manifested by the signing of agreement on collaboration in the research and technology development, taking the development of China’s High-Speed Rail (HSR) to higher levels.
Led by Professor Zhang Wengui, Vice President of Southwest Jiaotong University, Professor Zhou Benkuan, Chairman of Board of Directors of The Southwest Jiaotong University Railway Development Co. Ltd the delegation came to Hong Kong to sign an agreement with PolyU represented by Ir Professor Alex Wai, PolyU Vice-President (Research Development), on the collaboration at the signing ceremony in PolyU campus.
Professor Alex Wai commented, “As early as 2011, PolyU collaborated with SWJTU in applying different monitoring technologies in HSR. Among them is the technology using Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) sensors in automatic monitoring of subsidence in the Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Rail (BSHSR) research project resulting in significant achievements. The signing of the agreement means closer collaboration in developing new railway technologies.”
Professor Zhang Weihua, Director of the State Key Laboratory of Traction Power, SWTJU concurred, “SWTJU and PolyU have been close partners working on various HSR projects. Among them is the novel technology in monitoring subsidence in the BSHSR which resulted in significant achievements. We believe that there will be closer collaboration with PolyU in further exploring applied technologies in railway.”
Professor Tam Hwa-yaw of Department of Electrical Engineering of PolyU said, “The Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) technology is developing rapidly, monitoring in real time round-the-clock the vibration, acceleration rate, change in temperature, as well as the condition of the trains, rail tracks and critical structural components. As applied earlier in BSHSR, this technology provides effective and reliable monitoring.”
Apart from the collaboration in BSHSR, the research teams of PolyU and SWTJU have also recently completed the study of controlling vibration in HSR. This research, supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund in Hong Kong, helps in mitigating lateral vibrations of the train when travelling in high speed and improving stability of the train in operation. Professor Ni Yiqing, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering of PolyU said, “The stability of HSR and comfort of the ride has become increasingly important. This research succeeded in reducing adverse vibration by using damper when travelling at a speed of over 300 kilometres per hour. This provides stability and comfort in ride, and prolongs the life of the train in operation.”
The agreement is a testimony of strengthened relationship in developing applied technologies in rail monitoring, including the automatic monitoring of subsidence and on-line assessment of the operation of the train when travelling in high speed. As vibration caused by travelling in high speed and irregularities in the tracks will affect the comfort of the ride, stability of the train and maintenance of the tracks, the focus of collaborative research will be monitoring control in vibration of the train travelling in high speed, as well as the interaction between the wheels and tracks.
PolyU has built up a strong cross-disciplinary team to study the application of advanced sensing technology in HSR. The team includes Professor Ho Siu-lau, Professor Tam Hwa-yaw, Professor Lee Kang-kuen, Professor Cheng Ka-wai, and Professor Or Siu-wing of Department of Electrical Engineering; Professor Ni Yiqing, Professor Yin Jianhua, and Dr Zhu Song-ye of Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering; Professor Cheng Li, Professor Zhou Li-min, Dr Su Zhong-qing, and Dr Jing Xingjian of Department of Mechanical Engineering; Professor Ding Xiao-li of Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics; and Professor Cao Jiannong, and Dr Wang Dan of Department of Computing.
The Southwest Jiaotong University Railway Development Co. Ltd. was set up by SWJTU and is the interface between railway construction as well as technology and human resources. It has participated in projects including Beijing Shanghai HSR, Guiyang-Guangzhou HSR, Baoji-Lanzhou HSR, Beijing-Guangzhou HSR with impressive achievements, and established excellent relationship with Ministry of Railways and some of the local railway companies.
