
[date]2014.12.01[/date]
[title]PolyU invites nominations for Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations (FHKPUAA) are jointly organizing the selection for "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award 2015" to give public recognition to its distinguished graduates. Nominations for the selection are invited from now until 19 December 2014.
Launched in late 1996, this biennial selection aims to give public recognition to outstanding graduates of PolyU and its forerunners — the Government Trade School, the Hong Kong Technical College and the Hong Kong Polytechnic — for their accomplishments in their professions and their contributions to the community. Over the years, PolyU and its forerunners have sent forth more than 350,000 graduates. Nearly 60 distinguished alumni in various professions have been honoured in the past award selections and they are fine testimony of PolyU's accomplishments in nurturing professional talents for the community. This year marks the 10th award selection, making it more meaningful and memorable amongst the alumni.
The seven-member Panel of Judges is chaired by Dr Tung Chee-chen, Chairman of Orient Overseas (International) Ltd. and Honorary Chairman of Court of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Ms Shirley Chan Suk-ling, 1st Vice President of Chinese Manufacturer’s Association of Hong Kong and Chief Executive Officer of YGM Trading Ltd.; Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, Chairperson of Equal Opportunities Commission; Ir. Prof. Johnny Fan Siu-kay, President of Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations; Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Prof. Royce Yuen Man-chun, Chief Executive Officer of New Brand New and Deputy President of Outstanding PolyU Alumni Association; and Mr Lincoln Yung Chu-kuen, Chairman of Shanghai Commercial Bank Ltd.
All graduates of the institution are eligible for nomination. Preliminary screening of the selection will be conducted by the Honorary Selection Consultant, Ernst &amp; Young Certified Public Accountants, in early 2015. The Panel of Judges will then select the award winners based on the selection criteria relating to the candidates' personal achievements/ accomplishments in his/ her profession; contribution to the community in which he/ she lives; and support for PolyU and its alumni development.
Results of the selection will be publicly announced in March 2015. At the Award Presentation Ceremony and Dinner, tentatively scheduled for April 2015 or May 2015, each winner will be presented with an "Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award" trophy and proposers of the award winners will each receive souvenirs in appreciation of their nominations.
Nomination forms can be obtained from now at the following venues on the PolyU campus:
Alumni Affairs and Development Office
Office of the Federation of PolyU Alumni Associations
Pao Yue-kong Library
PolyU Bookstore
Nomination form and other details of the award selection can also be downloaded from the website at https://www.polyu.edu.hk/aado/opaa2015.
