
[date]2014.07.17[/date]
[title]PolyU Hosts Conference on Renewing Business Education in Asia[/title]
50+20 Agenda – Renewing Business Education in Asia Conference was staged today (17 July 2014) by the Faculty of Business of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). A total of 200 participants from academia, businesses, professional bodies, and organisations involved in the pursuit of sustainability converged in Hong Kong for an exploration of responsible leadership, innovation for sustainability, the business school of tomorrow, and corporate social responsibility. Also present at the event was Mr Eddie Ng Hak-kim, Secretary for Education, HKSAR government.
The label 50+20 signifies the passing of 50 years since the last major reform of management education, and the 20th anniversary of the 1992 UN Rio Earth Summit which called on businesses to practise sustainability. In 2012, the United Nations extended the call to business schools to embed sustainability, ethics, and corporate social responsibility in their curriculum. The 50+20 Agenda conveys a new vision for management education – to design and lead businesses to build a better and sustainable world.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, said at the opening that sustainability has been an important strategic focus of PolyU and the university has gone far beyond management education. Apart from introducing business ethics, corporate social responsibility, responsible management and leadership topics into business education, there are new academic programmes with focus on environment and sustainability, the Research Institute for Sustainable Urban Development recently set up to develop innovative solutions for sustainable high-density cities and the new Sustainability Management Research Centre that promotes business sustainability through research and transfer of knowledge to the business community.
The conference comprised keynote presentations, thematic presentations and a collaboratory. Chairpersons for the sessions were Professor Howard Davies, Advisor to Dean of PolyU’s Faculty of Business; Mr Ross O’Brien, Chief Economist in North Asia of Economist Corporate Network; Professor Xu Huang, Professor of PolyU’s Department of Management and Marketing; Professor Katrin Muff, Dean of Business School Lausanne; and Professor Cees De Bont, Dean of PolyU’s School of Design.
Professor Muff delivered a keynote presentation on Management Education for the World: A Vision for a Sustainable Future. Mr Ronnie Chan, Chairman of Hang Lung Group Limited and Hang Lung Properties Limited spoke on The Role of Business in Shaping Future Global Leaders. Mr Andrew Savitz, President of Sustainable Business Strategies, talked about How Today's Best-Run Companies are Achieving Economic, Social and Environmental Success. Mr Shrikant Ramakrishnan, Global Business Development Director of Plantagon International AB, introduced the concept of Companisation.
In her presentation on responsible leadership, Ms Jo Shum, General Manager of Lighting Hong Kong &amp; Macau at Philips Electronics Hong Kong Ltd looked at Sustainability and Innovation. Mr CY Yeung, Director of Corporate Responsibility at Intel China, talked about Business of Tomorrow, Today. In the session themed A New Business Model for Business Schools? Professor Dong-Sung Cho, Professor of Strategy at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business and Professor Emeritus of Seoul National University, discoursed on Convergence of Technologies &amp; Consilience in Business Education. Professor Anne Tsui, Founding President of International Association for Chinese Management Research, elaborated on Socially Responsible Scholarship.
During the collaboratory, Professor Ulrich Hommel, Director at Research and Surveys Unit of European Foundation for Management Development, Professor Doo-Hee Lee, Dean of Korea University Business School, Dr Peter Lau, Chairman &amp; Chief Executive of Giordano International Limited, and Mr Philo Alto, Founder of Asia Value Advisors were actively involved in the discussion on the Business School of Tomorrow.
Closing the event, Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of PolyU’s Faculty of Business, said the conference heralded a good start to a journey of transformation as well as an on-going exchange of views and close collaboration between educators, enterprisers and all stakeholders of responsible leadership and management. “We fervently hope that the synergy between us brings real benefits to the joint pursuit of sustainability as time goes on.” He added.
