
[date]2014.06.25[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage 2014 Fashion Show[/title]
Twenty-four graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at the 2014 PolyU Fashion Show today (25 June) at the Hong Kong Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre. The graduating students are from the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles. Over 2, 000 industrialists, fashion designers, media friends and fashion bloggers were attracted to the Show.
The panel of judges was made up of well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are (in alphabetical order):
Mr Barney CHENG, Designer / Director, Yenrabi Ltd.
Ms Janet CHEUNG, Vice-Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Mr Bartley INGRAM, Head of Art and Creative, JOYCE BOUTIQUE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Mr Eddie LAU, Fashion / Image Designer
Ms Tina LIU, Founder &amp; CEO, Tina's Choice Fashion Accessories
Mr Walter MA, Director, WALTER MA &amp; CO LTD
Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the fashion show, the students also competed for seven prizes and three travelling scholarships offered by the industry, including:
Overall Grand award, JUNGHANS – THE GERMAN WATCH 
Esquel Outstanding Menswear Award 
Long Tai Hong Best Use of Synthetic Leather Award 
M. Magtague Group Best Use of Color Award 
Nan Fung Most Promising Young Talent Award  
Win Hanverky Inspiration Award 
Scholarship of Creativity (sponsored by Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association) 
Travelling Scholarship to Australia (sponsored by Flinders Merino)  
Best Use of Australian Merino Study Tour Scholarship (sponsored by The Woolmark Company) 
Travelling Scholarship to Denmark (sponsored by Saga Furs Oyj) 
HO Kwan Shing, Kurt, with his impressive design themed Fallen was the winner of the Overall Grand Award, while CHEUNG Ka Ho, with his design themed "Soul"dier secured two prizes in the fashion show including Outstanding Menswear Award and Scholarship of Creativity. Please refer to the full list of awardees.
As the sole provider of tertiary education in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
