
[date]2014.11.21[/date]
[title]"PolyU Serves" Showcase kicked off at PolyU with an exhibition of more than 20 service projects[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is staging "PolyU Serves" Showcase on campus from today to 23 November 2014. The Showcase features more than 20 meaningful service-learning projects by PolyU students and staff members conducted in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and abroad. It aims to highlight the development of service-learning at PolyU and demonstrate the efforts of students and staff to serve the needy with their professional knowledge and skills.
A kick-off ceremony was held today (21 November), attended by donors and supporters, "PolyU Serves" partners, and NGO collaborating partners, as well as Council and Court members, senior management, staff members and students of PolyU. Officiating at the ribbon cutting ceremony were Mr Nicholas W. Yang, Executive Vice President of PolyU; Dr Patrick Poon, Treasure of PolyU Council; Ir Professor Johnny Fan, Member of PolyU Council; Professor Kenneth Pang, Member of the University Court; Ir Professor Tsui Tackkong, Governing Committee Members of PolyU Foundation; Professor Angelina Yuen, Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership) of PolyU; and Professor Daniel Shek, Associate Vice President (Undergraduate Programme) of PolyU.
In his welcoming address, Mr Nicholas W. Yang, PolyU Executive Vice President, said that PolyU had taken a major step in 2012/13 academic year, it was the first-of-it-kind in Hong Kong to introduce credit-bearing "Service-Learning" subjects into the four-year undergraduate degree programme curriculum. In the past two years, 2,083 students completed the service-learning subjects. They participated in a wide range of service projects held in Hong Kong, the Chinese mainland and abroad and served more than 83,000 hours. Mr Yang also expressed sincere gratitude to all donors, supporters and collaborating partners for their long-standing support for PolyU.
In 2013, the Service-Learning Scholarship Scheme was set up to encourage students to keep on engaging in community services and share their experiences as leaders to support other service-learning programmes at PolyU. During the kick-off ceremony of the Showcase, the University presented the 2013/14 Service-Learning Scholarships to 70 students who achieved outstanding performance in service-learning subjects.
This three-day Showcase features a project exhibition on four main themes: Education &amp; Technology, Environment Improvement &amp; Sustainable Development, Health &amp; Wellness and Social Integration. The displays in the Showcase include concrete products or prototypes of service deliverables. There are also on-site demonstrations and presentations by students and staff members. Another highlight of the Showcase is a "Community Service Day" jointly organized with the Federation of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Alumni Association (FHKPUAA) on 22 November. PolyU students will provide a range of services, including health assessment, vision screening, education workshops, campus tour, etc, to the elderly and children in need.
The event dates and opening hours are as follows:
21 November 2014 (12:30 pm – 6:30 pm) 22 November 2014 (10:00 am – 2:30 pm) 23 November 2014 (10:00 am – 1:00 pm)
Venue: Podium CD, CF, DE, EF, FJ, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
