
[date]2014.10.09[/date]
[title]“Festival Vernissage: Social Gastronomy” by J.C. DISI turns “less than perfect” ingredients to a “more than perfect” feast[/title]
The Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) invited 28 teams comprised of senior management from large corporations and celebrities as "Honorable Chefs", professional chefs, as well grassroot families to join the opening event of "10 Day Fest" – "Festival Vernissage: Social Gastronomy" today (9 October), which is co-organised by the Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Fund and funded by The Hong Kong Jockey Club, to prepare a feast at the PolyU Keith Legg Sports Field, making use of unwanted food collected from local wet markets.
The opening event was officiated by Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, Mr Wong Kam-sing, Secretary for the Environment, Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community, The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Dr Joseph Lee, Vice Chairman, The Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Fund, Professor Cees de Bont, Dean of School of Design, PolyU, and Mr Alvin Yip, Director of J.C.DISI of PolyU, with an aim to raise public awareness of reducing food waste, as well as to highlight the importance of social innovation in managing unwanted fresh food and reducing wastage.
Professor Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President, shared at the opening, "We can together come up with innovative ideas, turning 'less than perfect' ingredients to a 'more than perfect' feast. This is not a technological innovation, but simply, a social innovation."
Professor Tong supplemented, "This is what PolyU has strived to do over the years, that is, to provide a platform for conversation and exchanges among various sectors of society, and to contribute as much as we can, for the good of our society.  We pledge we will continue to do so."
In Hong Kong, over 3,000 tons of food is discarded every day, amounting to one-third of the city's solid waste. Half of the unwanted food is in fact edible, a testimony to the seriousness
of the issue of food waste.  Secretary for the Environment Mr Wong Kam-sing said, "Domestic food waste is one of the big challenges to Hong Kong.  I appreciated very much the effort made by J.C.DISI of PolyU to raise public awareness of the issue via this meaningful event."
Mr Leong Cheung, Executive Director, Charities and Community of The Hong Kong Jockey Club said the Club would be marking its 130th Anniversary by seeking further ways of contributing to the community's long-term sustainability.  In the coming three to five years, the Club would have three overarching themes, strategically focusing on the areas that could help build Hong Kong into an age-friendly city, channel youth energy into social innovation, and support sports projects that could create lifelong positive values and hopes.
"The Festival is one of the signature events of the JCDISI.  Through supporting this Festival, we hope to encourage creativity that can improve the well-being and quality of life of the community and drive public engagement and interest in design and social innovation, so as to bring positive impact to social issues," Mr Leong Cheung said.
Mr Kim Salkeld, the Secretary General of The Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Fund (SIE Fund) Task Force introduced the SIE Fund and its intent to undertake a project on food support with a view to improving efficiency and effectiveness with which needs could be met.  Mr Salkeld also encouraged the attendants to download the newly launched SIE Fund mobile app (http://www.sie.gov.hk/app) to stay tuned to the SIE Fund and help build Hong Kong's social innovation network.
