
[date]2014.10.10[/date]
[title]J.C.DISI "10 Day" Social Innovation Festival kicked off at PolyU with 70 activities organized in 10 consecutive days[/title]
The Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) organizes "10 Day" Social Innovation Festival ("10 Day Fest") on campus. Held from today to 19 October, the Festival features more than 70 interesting and meaningful activities for the public, local and overseas civic leaders, academics and innovators. It aims to enhance public awareness on social innovation and promote positive change for social good.
This year, the Festival promotes co-create and share in the theme of "Social innovation – Be a practical dreamer". As one of the programme highlights, collections of flair and innovative ideas from innovators all over the world are showcased in 25 exhibits, illustrating "social innovation" from various perspectives and topics. Exhibit "Green Deck as an innovative social project" features a PolyU-initiated innovative solution to problems in Cross Harbour Tunnel vicinity, e.g., poor air quality and lack of facilities, through videos, prototypes and research findings. Also on display are the winning projects of "Design for Well-being Award" which is the first-of-its kind in Asia Pacific regions for the betterment of society and healthy living. In exhibit "DETOUR Matters 2013 – From Microtopia to Social Innovation", the public can experience the unprecedented tram transformation. Apart from those, there are many other exhibitions including "The Great Small Gender Design Exhibition" and the winning projects of "Jockey Club Design for Society Student Award 2014".
On 10 October, the partners, artists, designers, academics, exhibitors and the supporting organizers can join a multidisciplinary networking evening with PolyU's staff and students at "Festival Reception" in the Festival.
As an Asian signature event in design and social innovation held annually, "10 Day Fest" also features documentary screenings in themes of gender, public health, ageing, food supply and wise-use; rounds of seminars and lectures sharing experiences by experts in the fields of commerce and design; and a series of enjoyable workshops catering for targets at various age ranges.
For more details on "10 Day" Social Innovation Festival, please visit: http://www.10dayfest.hk
