
[date]2014.11.20[/date]
[title]Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences Speaks at the Public Lecture in PolyU[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is proud to have invited Professor Robert Engle, Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences 2003, to give a public lecture on "Prospects for Global Financial Stability" on 24 November 2014. Hosted by PolyU's School of Accounting and Finance, the lecture will discuss the importance of global financial stability and its impact to worldwide financial markets, and offer valuable insights to both academics and practitioners. 
Professor Engle is the Michael Armellino Professor of Management and Financial Services at New York University Stern School of Business. He was awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Economics for his research on the concept of autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (ARCH). Professor Engle is an expert in time series analysis with a long-standing interest in the analysis of financial markets, and his ARCH model has become an indispensable tool for researchers and analysts of financial markets. Before joining NYU Stern in 2000, he was Chancellor's Associates Professor and Economics Department Chair at the University of California, San Diego and Associate Professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Details of this lecture are as follows:
Date:               24 November 2014 (Monday)
Venue:             Chiang Chen Studio Theatre, PolyU Campus
Rundown:        5:00pm-5:30pm (Registration)
                        5:30pm-6:40pm (Public lecture)
                        6:40pm-7:15pm (Reception at Theatre Lounge)
Language:       English
Members of the public and media are welcome to join the lecture with prior online registration. Details about the event and online registration can be located at: http://www.af.polyu.edu.hk/conferences/detail/8.  Seats are limited.
 About the School of Accounting and Finance (AF), PolyU
AF is the longest established accounting department in Hong Kong with around 100 full-time academic staff with expertise in accounting, finance, economics, and law. The School has a vibrant research culture. There are publications in top-tier refereed journals, including Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Journal of Financial Economics, The Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting and Economics, Journal of Accounting Research, Management Science, Review of Accounting Studies,and Contemporary Accounting Research. The School hosts two international journals: Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics and China Accounting and Finance Review.
