
[date]2014.10.29[/date]
[title]Naming Ceremony of Ho Iu Kwong Building and Ho Iu Kwong and Kwok Pui Chun Square[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named a building and a square on its campus respectively after the late Mr Ho Iu Kwong, Founder of the Fook Lee Group of Companies, and Mr Ho Iu Kwong and Ms Kwok Pui Chun in appreciation of the family's generous contributions to education, social well-being, and PolyU's teaching and research.
At the naming ceremony held on 14 October, Mr Ho Sai Chu, the eldest son and second child of Mr Ho Iu Kwong, officiated at the ribbon cutting and plaque unveiling ceremonies together with his eight siblings, Professor Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, and Dr Patrick Poon, Chairman of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Foundation. The family members and friends of Mr Ho Iu Kwong and members of the Hong Kong Ho's Clan Relatives Company Ltd were present at the ceremony. Mr Ho Sai Chu is also Chairman of the Ho Iu Kwong Charity Foundation.
In his welcoming address, Professor Timothy W. Tong commended on the late Mr Ho's philanthropic spirit and remarkable contributions to the construction of public facilities in Hong Kong, as well as the promotion of Chinese art and culture.
Following in his father's footsteps, Mr Ho Sai Chu joined the construction industry after he graduated from the Hong Kong Technical College, predecessor of PolyU. Through the Ho Iu Kwong Charity Foundation, Mr Ho Sai Chu and his siblings carry on their parents' dedication towards Chinese art and culture and education.
The seven-storey Ho Iu Kwong Building (Block W) is located in the northern part of the campus, neighbouring the Lee Shau Kee Building (Block Y) and facing the Jockey Club Innovation Tower. The Ho Iu Kwong Building, with a total floor area of 12,600 m2 and various well-equipped facilities, is deservedly the University's prime facility for training talents for high-end technological research and industries. The Ho Iu Kwong and Kwok Pui Chun Square (North Court), connecting the Ho Iu Kwong Building and the Jockey Club Auditorium, covers an area of 1,300 m2 and offers a spacious and green environment where students, staff, and visitors can seek respite.
