
[date]2014.12.17[/date]
[title]The Inauguration of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Foundation cum PolyU Fund-raising Dinner 2014[/title]
The Inauguration of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Foundation cum PolyU Fund-raising Dinner 2014 was held on 1 December at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Twenty-two guests joined the inauguration ceremony, including: PolyU Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, Chairman of the PolyU Foundation and Treasurer of PolyU Dr Patrick Poon, Treasurer of the PolyU Foundation and Chairman of the PolyU Court Professor Roy Chung, Vice Chairman of the PolyU Foundation and Chairman of the Organizing Committee of the event Mrs Katherine Ngan, and 17 members of the Governing Committee of the PolyU Foundation.
The PolyU Foundation, officially established on 1 July 2014, aimed to support the University’s endeavours in the improvement of facilities and related resources, promotion of research and development, and enhance the all-round development and competitiveness of students. The Fund-raising Dinner was the first major activity organized by the PolyU Foundation.
The Fund-raising Dinner owed its success to the generous support of sponsors. They were Premier Sponsor, Prince Jewellery and Watch; Diamond Sponsors, Ms Stella Fung Siu-wan and Dr and Mrs Patrick S. C. Poon, and Gold Sponsors, Regal Hotels and Sa Sa Making Life Beautiful Charity Fund, as well as various Jade Sponsors and Pearl Sponsors.
In the limelight were exquisite artworks, high jewellery and premium wines auctioned at the dinner, which were sponsored by Prince Jewellery and Watch, Mr Louis Mak, Miss Cally Kwong, Paragon International Limited, FRANCK MULLER, Mrs Katherine Ngan, Mr Johnny Yeung and Ms Marjorie Yang.
The Dinner also featured a mini exhibition of PolyU’s research achievements, and musical performances by different teams of the University community. They included a rock band comprising Professor Timothy W. Tong, students and alumni; a Chinese orchestra formed by a University Court member Dr Raymond Chan and students; and a group of energetic singers from the Youth Committee of The Chinese Manufacturers’ Association. The menu of the dinner was specially designed by members of the Organizing Committee as a token of thanks to the guests.
