
[date]2014.10.07[/date]
[title]PolyU Education Info Day 2014[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will hold its Education Info Day 2014 this Saturday (11 October) on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on its full-time undergraduate and higher diploma programmes. Both JUPAS and Non-JUPAS applicants are most welcome to obtain detailed information about studying at PolyU.
Three admission talks will be held on the event day to help Secondary six students familiarize with the admission requirements and selection mechanism of our four-year degree and two-year Higher Diploma programmes. In addition, two dedicated admission talks will be arranged for non-JUPAS applicants. The average scores of 2014-15 HKDSE applicants admitted to our programmes will also be released to students for reference via the Study@PolyU&gt; website (www.polyu.edu.hk/study).
Academic staff and student ambassadors of PolyU will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students.
To give prospective applicants in-depth information on PolyU's study programmes, over 90 information seminars will be organized by its various academic faculties, schools as well as academic supporting departments. A number of guided visits will be also provided for visiting different kinds of research centres, laboratories, studios, and workshops. Other highlights of the event include: exhibition held at the House of Innovation where many PolyU's award-winning research projects are displayed, performances by PolyU's outstanding sportsmen and student bodies, and Social Innovation Festival held at Jockey Club Innovation Tower in which visitors can understand the meaning of social innovation through various workshops, movie screenings, salons, seminars, and lectures. Furthermore, exhibitions, demonstrations and other attractions will be staged to make the Info Day lively and vibrant.
The PolyU Education Info Day will be open from 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. For more details, please visit its official website at URL: https://www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday/
