
[date]2014.11.24[/date]
[title]PolyU and Hotel ICON find out how hotel room of the future appeals to the next generation of connected world travellers with Tomorrow's Guestrooms[/title]
What is the hotel room of the future? How does it appeal to the next generation of connected world travellers? The School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and Hotel ICON are determined to find out with their designated rooms for research and development – "Tomorrow's Guestrooms".
Following the success of the first round of the "Tomorrow's Guestrooms" competition last year with technology as the theme, the SHTM recently announced design as the theme of the second round. The "Tomorrow's Guestrooms Design Competition – The Hotel Room of the Future" is being held from 1 September to 31 December 2014.
"In recent years," said Professor Kaye Chon, SHTM Dean and Co-chairman of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms competition, "the most significant trend in the hotel industry is that, with the emergence of ‘experience economy', hotel guests are demanding hotel stays to deliver to them unique high-touch experiences. Often times, such high-touch experiences are related to the aspects of comfortable design in furnishing and amenities, wellbeing as well as technology."
Mr Richard Hatter, General Manager of Hotel ICON and Co-chairman of the Competition noted, "Hotel ICON appeals to the next generation of connected world travellers who blend work and play, who demand style and substance, and are digital savvy. According to studies in the US, the millennials are likely to spend more on travel than any other age group over the next 12 months and spend drastically more on leisure travel services than previous generations". He further explained, "We are looking for the design of the room for the future within the confines of a typical Hotel ICON room that can cater to this extremely sophisticated generation".
Professional and young architects, architecture studios and other business in the industry as well as design students from tertiary education institutions from around the world are invited to submit proposals individually or as teams for one of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms at Hotel ICON to showcase their visions of hotel room design for guests of the future.
Entries will be reviewed by an expert panel, and will be judged on functionality in design and creativity in implementation. The winners may have the chance to have their design realised in one of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms at Hotel ICON. The student winner will be given the opportunity to develop their design during a mentoring internship at Conran and Partners in London.
"Hotel ICON is in many ways a project of the future as it educates the professionals that will lead the industry in the years to come," said Dr Basak Denizci Guillet, SHTM Associate Professor and Co-ordinator of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms project. "The Tomorrow's Guestrooms Design Competition provides not only valuable insights into the hotel room of the future, but also an excellent opportunity for hoteliers as well as designers to really understand the desires, needs and expectations of this very sophisticated generation."
Entries to the "Tomorrow's Guestrooms Design Competition – The Room of the Future" are accepted from 1 September to 31 December 2014. For details and applications, please visit: http://hotelschool.shtm.polyu.edu.hk/tgr.
About School of Hotel and Tourism Management
PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 65 academic staff drawing from 20 countries and regions, the School offers programme at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was bestowed the McCool Breakthrough Award in 2012 by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel – Hotel ICON – the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education.
About Hotel ICON
Unlike any other, Hotel ICON is an upscale Hong Kong hotel in the heart of Tsim Sha Tsui East. Standing as a testament to Hong Kong's creative energy and vibrant arts scene, Hotel ICON showcases work from the city's celebrated designers and the world's most acclaimed architects. Offering the ultimate in comfort and committed to service excellence, Hotel ICON's 262 stylish guestrooms comprise seductive extras, including complimentary wired and Wi-Fi internet connections, smartphone with unlimited mobile data and an ultra-slim 40" Ultra High Definition LED TV. Located on level 9, Hotel ICON's Angsana Spa is a tranquil oasis while the harbour-facing outdoor swimming pool and fitness centre allow guests to exercise while enjoying views of Hong Kong Island's spectacular skyline. With a maximum capacity of 580 persons, Hotel ICON's grand Silverbox ballroom is the ideal venue for a celebration or theatre-style conference. Hotel ICON houses three restaurants: Above &amp; Beyond, The Market and GREEN, providing guests with exceptional quality of the food and impeccable service. wallpaper magazine included Hotel ICON in its 2011 list of the world's Best Business Hotels and DestinAsian included the hotel in its Luxe List 2011. The premier hotel has also won in 2 categories including the Top 25 Hotels in China as well as the Top 25 Hotels for Service in China in the 2014 TripAdvisor Traveler's Choice Awards.
