
[date]2015.03.18[/date]
[title]PolyU receives $3M donation from The Hong Kong Jockey Club for service-learning projects to benefit 3,500 needy in Yau Tsim Mong and Kowloon City[/title]
The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust (The Jockey Club) donated $3 million HK dollars to The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) to support a 3-year district-based project from 2015 to 2017, Jockey Club "PolyU Serves" Community Service Project (YTM and KC), to provide community services in Yau Tsim Mong (YTM) and Kowloon City (KC). The project is coordinated by Office of Service Learning to assist 9 academic departments to implement a total of 14 service-learning subjects, which amounts to one-fourth of the total 55 service-learning subjects in PolyU, benefiting around 3,500 needy in the districts.
The launching ceremony was held today (18 March) at PolyU campus. Officiating guests include PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong; The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Executive Manager, Charities, Ms Winnie Ying; Prof. Angelina Yuen, PolyU Vice President (Institutional Advancement and Partnership); Prof. Daniel Shek, PolyU Associate Vice President (Undergraduate Programme); Dr Patrick Poon, Chairman of the PolyU Foundation; Mr Chung Kong-mo, JP, Chairman of Yau Tsim Mong District Council; Mr Pun Kwok-wah, Vice Chairman of Kowloon City District Council; Ms Chan Wai-chun, Acting District Social Walfare Officer (KC/YTM), Social Welfare Department.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong expressed in his speech, "PolyU highly values this project as it aligns with our commitment in nurturing students to be responsible social citizens, and encouraging them to apply their knowledge and skills to help the needy. I am very pleased that our belief is supported and recognized by different collaborators. We hope that we can work together to improve our community, and to benefit the residents."
The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Executive Manager, Charities, Ms Winnie Ying stated that, "This service project is mutually beneficial: enhance the students' skill sets and social responsibility on one hand, and help those in need in the society on the other hand. As the Club celebrates its 130th Anniversary this year, we will seek further ways of contributing to the community's long-term sustainability. In the coming three to five years, the Club will have three overarching themes, strategically focusing on helping to build Hong Kong into an age-friendly city, to channel youth energy into social innovation, and to support sports projects that can create lifelong positive values and hopes."
PolyU was the first local university to introduce service-learning in the new undergraduate degree programme curriculum. By integrating social service and subject learning, we encourage all-around development of students through applying their knowledge to serve people in need in the society. With the funding of The Jockey Club, and close collaboration with government departments, NGOs, schools and local community organisations, our service-learning subjects are tailor made to meet the needs of the two districts in order to reach more beneficiaries, and hence better bridge the existing service gap.
For examples, under the Project, teachers and students from the School of Optometry will provide preliminary visual screening for the elderly and children from underprivileged families in the districts. For those who need further assessment and follow-up, they will be referred to PolyU's Optometry Clinic for consultation. A maximum subsidy of 500 HK dollars for buying spectacles will be given to needy non-CSSA recipients. Meanwhile, teachers and students from the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics will organise orienteering activities for the ethnic minority children and bring them to educational and recreational activities which they usually could not afford. PolyU students will also teach these children to create a map of their community and help them identify community facilities and find their way, with a view to helping them know more about the community.
YTM and KC, the districts where Jockey Club "PolyU Serves" Community Service Projects (YTM &amp; KC) serves, are two major old districts in Kowloon with city planning lagging behind that of the newly developed areas, and a higher proportion of elderly, underprivileged and ethnic minority groups. The elderly aged 65 or above in YTM constitutes 13.8% of its population and those in KC constitutes 15%, both higher than the overall figure of 13.5% in Hong Kong. In addition, the ethnic minorities population in YTM constitutes around 8.4% of ethnic minorities in Hong Kong, while the KC population constitutes 7.4%, ranking the third and fourth highest place amongst the 18 districts respectively. The median monthly household income of YTM district is lower than that of Hong Kong as a whole. After analysing the features and needs of the two districts, four themes are developed, namely a) integrating ethnic minorities or new arrivals into the community; b) caring for the needy elderly through integrated healthcare; c) improving the well-being of disadvantaged children and youths; and d) improving the environment.
It is expected that around 1,600 PolyU students and staff will be actively involved in a variety of community services. PolyU and The Jockey Club aim to a) maintain close ties and collaboration with organisations in the local community to better identify the social issues and address the needs of the community; b) encourage PolyU students and staff to apply their professional knowledge and skills to provide integrated and comprehensive services to help people in need; and c) provide continuous services and sustained follow-up to bring long-term impact to the community.
