
[date]2015.01.20[/date]
[title]4,000-strong PolyU team runs for social cause in Hong Kong Marathon 2015 and honoured with the "Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award" again[/title]
With more than 4,000 students, staff, alumni and their family members and friends joining its running team, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set another new record for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2015 (Hong Kong Marathon) which will be held on the coming Sunday (25 January). By sending the largest single team for this international event for sixth consecutive years, PolyU has taken home the Champion of the Most Supportive Group Award. This year, the PolyU Running Team launched a new initiative by joining hands with FOODSPORT, a social enterprise that encourages participation in sports and raise food for the needy, in order to make the run more meaningful. The calories PolyU runners burnt during the run will be converted into food units for donation to its beneficiary, Food Grace. Therefore, every drop of sweat is for a good cause.
The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held last Saturday (17 January) during the Hong Kong Marathon Carnival at Victoria Park. Ir Professor Alexander Wai, PolyU Vice President (Research Development), cheered on by PolyU staff and students, received the Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award on behalf of the University.
To help PolyU participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre, together with PolyU's Department of Rehabilitation Sciences set up a booth at the Hong Kong Marathon Carnival where visitors could receive free test and assessment in core stability, flexibility, running gait, body composition and Sports Taping demonstration. A team of PolyU registered physiotherapists will also be there on the Hong Kong Marathon to provide support for the participants, and offer basic treatment and professional advice for PolyU runners.
The organizing committee of the PolyU Running Team was grateful to all runners, cheering team members and volunteers for their enthusiastic support to this community-wide sports activity. The event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni.
The committee also expressed sincere thanks to adidas, belif, Biore, Brooks, Champion, CIMC, currexSole, Essential, GATSBY, hellolulu, Jabra, Lioton, Nike, Playboy, Polar, re:echo, Victoria Scandinavian, 759 Store, supporting agency Spring Public Relations and media partners, SPORTSOHO and UP2U for their generous sponsorship for the team and the race.
PolyU formed its debut running team for the Hong Kong Marathon in 2009 and the number of PolyU runners has grown steadily since then. It has set a new record for "the number of runners of a single team" since 2010, snatching the "Top Prize of Most Supportive Group Award" for sixth consecutive years.
