
[date]2014.08.11[/date]
[title]PolyU School of Hotel and Tourism Management Leading the Way with Hotel ICON by Launching a Room of the Future Design Competition[/title]
Following the success of the first round of "Tomorrow's Guestrooms" Competition last year, the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) announces design as the theme of the upcoming competition. The "Tomorrow's Guestrooms Design Competition – The Room of the Future" will be held from 1 September to 31 December 2014.
There is no one-size-fits-all template for design, with the hospitality industry as buoyant as it currently is the talk always turns to what is next – what is the hotel room of the future? Hotel ICON is in many ways a project of the future as it educates the professionals that will lead the industry in years to come. "We are looking for the design of the room for the future within the confines of a typical Hotel ICON room and are keen to see what the designers of today and tomorrow think it may be," Mr Richard Hatter, General Manager of Hotel ICON and Co-chairman of the Competition explained. "It's about balance between managing the cool factor and comfort."
Professional and young architects, architecture studios and other business in this industry as well as design students from tertiary education institutions from around the world are invited to submit their design proposals individually or as a team for one of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms at Hotel ICON to imagine the guestroom of tomorrow and showcase their vision of hotel room design for guests of the future.
Entries will be reviewed by an expert panel, and will be judged on functionality in design and creativity in implementation. The winners may have the chance to have their design realised in one of the Tomorrow's Guestrooms at Hotel ICON. The student winner will be given the opportunity to develop their design during a mentoring internship at Conran and Partners in London.
"Hotel ICON is a true symbol of Hong Kong's dynamic design talent and expanding arts scene. When we were involved in the original project over three years ago, it was a fabulous opportunity to collaborate with award-winning artists, creative visionaries and the most respected designers that Hong Kong had to offer," said Ms Tina Norden, Associate Director, Conran and Partners and Co-chairman of the Competition. "We very much look forward to continuing this creative process by collaborating with and inviting the competition winner to our London studio."
An SHTM initiative, the Tomorrow's Guestrooms were created to facilitate more in-depth research into the application of advanced concepts in the field of hotel management for the advancement of the entire industry. "Cutting-edge research contributes to the further improvement of and drive for excellence in the hospitality industry," noted Professor Kaye Chon, SHTM Dean and Co-chairman of the Competition. "We are proud to be in a position to support the industry and tomorrow's hoteliers in this innovative way."
Entry to the "Tomorrow's Guestrooms Design Competition – The Room of the Future" will be accepted from 1 September to 31 December 2014. For details and applications, please visit: http://hotelschool.shtm.polyu.edu.hk/tgr.
About School of Hotel and Tourism Management PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management is a world-leading provider of hospitality and tourism education. It was ranked No. 2 internationally among hotel and tourism schools based on research and scholarship, according to a study published in the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research in November 2009.
With 65 academic staff drawing from 20 countries and regions, the School offers programme at levels ranging from Higher Diploma to Ph.D. Currently a member of the UNWTO Knowledge Network, the School was bestowed the McCool Breakthrough Award in 2012 by the International Council on Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Education (I-CHRIE) recognising its breakthrough in the form of its teaching and research hotel – Hotel ICON – the heart of the School's innovative approach to hospitality and tourism education.
About Hotel ICON Unlike any other, Hotel ICON is an upscale Hong Kong hotel in the heart of Tsim Sha Tsui East. Standing as a testament to Hong Kong's creative energy and vibrant arts scene, Hotel ICON showcases work from the city's celebrated designers and the world's most acclaimed architects. Offering the ultimate in comfort and committed to service excellence, Hotel ICON's 262 stylish guestrooms comprise seductive extras, including complimentary wired and Wi-Fi internet connections, smartphone with unlimited mobile data and an ultra-slim 40" Ultra High Definition LED TV. Located on level 9, Hotel ICON's Angsana Spa is a tranquil oasis while the harbour-facing outdoor swimming pool and fitness centre allow guests to exercise while enjoying views of Hong Kong Island's spectacular skyline. With a maximum capacity of 580 persons, Hotel ICON's grand Silverbox ballroom is the ideal venue for a celebration or theatre-style conference. Hotel ICON houses three restaurants: Above &amp; Beyond, The Market and GREEN, providing guests with exceptional quality of the food and impeccable service. wallpaper magazine included Hotel ICON in its 2011 list of the world's Best Business Hotels and DestinAsian included the hotel in its Luxe List 2011. The premier hotel has also won in 2 categories including the Top 25 Hotels in China as well as the Top 25 Hotels for Service in China in the 2014 TripAdvisor Traveler's Choice Awards.
