
[date]2015.12.24[/date]
[title]Mr Ignatius Chan Tze-ching and Dr the Honourable Lam Tai-fai appointed as Chairman and Deputy Chairman of PolyU Council respectively[/title]
The HKSAR Government today (24 December) announced the appointment of Mr Ignatius Chan Tze-ching as Chairman and Dr the Honourable Lam Tai-fai as Deputy Chairman of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Council.  Both appointments will take effect from 1 January 2016 for a period of three years. 
Mr Ignatius Chan Tze-ching first served the PolyU Council from April 2005 to March 2008. He was reappointed in May 2009 and has served as Deputy Council Chairman since April 2013.  He also served as Chairman of PolyU Council's Audit Committee from May 2009 to March 2013. Mr Chan's support for the quest for quality education and research excellence has tremendously helped PolyU in achieving its admirable success over the past years.
Mr Chan has been a career banker for over three decades, and is currently a senior adviser to the Bank of East Asia and an independent non-executive director of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Clearing Limited among his many commercial engagements.  He is also actively involved in public and community services.
Mr Chan said, "I am extremely honoured to be appointed Chairman of the University Council. In this important and challenging role, I will work closely with University Management and other stakeholders to build on the success of PolyU for the benefit of the community."
Dr the Hon Lam Tai-fai has a long association with PolyU.  In addition to being an outstanding alumnus, he was conferred a University Fellowship and an Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration respectively in 2000 and 2004. Actively supporting the development of his alma mater in a variety of ways, he served on the PolyU Council from 2006 to 2012 and is currently a member of the University Court.
A leading industrialist and currently a Legislative Council member, Dr Lam serves on a number of advisory committees and is dedicated to the development of industry, innovation and technology, as well as education in Hong Kong.
PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong welcomes the appointment of Mr Chan and Dr Lam.  Prof. Tong said, "I have confidence that PolyU will grow from strength to strength and achieve new heights under the leadership of Mr Chan and Dr Lam, as our University heads towards its 80th anniversary in 2017."
Prof. Tong also thanked the outgoing Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang for her tremendous contributions to the development of PolyU during her six years' term of service. 
