
[date]2015.08.02[/date]
[title]PolyU kicks off the 6th University Scholars Leadership Symposium[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) co-organized the 6th University Scholars Leadership Symposium (USLS) with the Humanitarian Affairs, United Kingdom (HA) this year, which is kicked off today (2 August) at the PolyU Jockey Club Auditorium by Mr Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, GBS, JP, Secretary for Labour and Welfare.
The 6th run annual Leadership Symposium is held from 1 to 7 August 2015 in Hong Kong for the first time, with the aim to provide a learning platform and idea-exchange opportunities to groom our future leaders with life-skills and knowledge required. The Symposium is designed for promising young leaders who are committed to taking a leadership role in making the world a better place. The Symposium was held previously in Cambodia, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia. The theme of this year is "Enrich, Educate, Enlighten". Over 800 young leaders from prestigious universities of 57 countries joined together to make this international programme energetic.
Delegates will be given the opportunities to learn from renowned guest speakers, while networking with like-minded peers from all over the world and exchanging their ideas and experiences. International and local distinguished speakers such as Dr Thomas Chan Sze-tong, Former National Director of World Vision China, Dr Rosanna Wong Yick-ming, Executive Director of The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups, Mr Francis Ngai Wah-sing, CEO of Social Ventures Hong Kong, Mr Peter Ho, Secretary General of YMCA HK, Miss Michelle Kim, international renowned pianist, Miss Gigi Chao, founder of Faith in Love Foundation, Miss Lee Seunghee, professional recording artist and producer, and Mr Chandran Nair, founder and CEO of Global Institute of Tomorrow will share their stories and experiences on wide spectrum of topics, such as contributions of social enterprises to the society, personal life goal setting, volunteer work and service learning, etc. In addition, the young leaders will participate in outreach learning journey to apply their skills to serve the needy in local communities. The serving targets include children, elderly and ethnic minorities.
Professor Angelina Yuen, Acting President of PolyU in her address today emphasized, "PolyU is thrilled to bring together more than 800 young leaders from across the world in this large-scale youth leadership symposium. We are proud to co-host this symposium and walk a 7-day mind-opening journey with the young leaders, delivering our promise for education – Opening Minds • Shaping the Future."
USLS is an international leadership programme for outstanding youngsters to gain a unique out-of-classroom learning experience and training to develop their all-round abilities for being the future leaders. Participants can enhance their self-perception and build upon their leadership presence during the intensive a week-long programme. For details, please visit official website at www.universityscholars.org.uk.
