
[date]2015.11.14[/date]
[title]PolyU honours five distinguished personalities at 21st Congregation[/title]
Presided over by The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak and President Professor Timothy W. Tong, the 21st Congregation held today (14 November) saw the conferment of Honorary Doctorates upon five prominent figures and doctoral degrees on 283 graduates. The ceremony was held in the Jockey Club Auditorium on the university campus. 
The five honorary degree recipients this year include (in alphabetical order of last name):  Dr David C. Chang, Professor Emeritus of New York University Tandon School of Engineering, and Chairman and CEO of Global Maximum Educational Opportunities, Inc.; Mr Ho Kwon Ping, Founder and Executive Chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings; Professor Gang Pei, President of Tongji University; Professor Dame Alison Richard, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge and Senior Research Scientist of Yale University; and Mr John Slosar, Chairman of Swire Pacific Limited.  
In extending his congratulations to the honorary doctorates and graduates, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong also shared with them how PolyU is well-positioned to play a significant role in the Chinese government's "One Belt One Road" development strategy. "Over the years, PolyU has developed expertise to deliver advanced technologies and practical solutions to address infrastructural challenges, for example a Smart Railway Monitoring System and a Mega-structure Diagnostic and Prognostic System," Professor Tong said. "We are also a most qualified supplier of professionals in construction, engineering and other related fields who are much needed to support the initiative."  In May this year, PolyU has joined hands with Xi'an Jiaotong University to initiate the Universities Alliance of the New Silk Road which steers and supports collaborations in education, science and technology, as well as fosters cultural exchange. 
While the University champions collaboration for the common good, Professor Tong urged the graduates to share the spirit of collaboration as they plan for their future. "Take your place in the new generation of 'positive leaders' who are ready to seize opportunities and create possibilities. Strengthen your mind, ignite your passion, act thoughtfully and decisively, and remain steadfast in defending your values. Remember, we count on you to guide our society towards a prosperous and peaceful future." 
The University has conferred a total of 11,226 academic honours this year, including 222 Doctor of Philosophy, 61 discipline-based Doctor's degree, 52 Master of Philosophy, 4,038 Master's degree, 5,601 Bachelor's degree, 22 postgraduate diploma and certificate, and 1,225 sub-degree award. 
