
[date]2015.09.25[/date]
[title]PolyU J.C.DISI kicked off 10DAYFEST [/title]
Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) kicked off its third 10DAYFEST this evening. J.C.DISI has put together a "Full Moon Party" to kick start 10DAYFEST on the eve of Mid-Autumn Festival. The Hon Wong Kam-sing, Secretary for the Environment, HKSAR Government; Ms Winnie Ying, Executive Manager, Charities, The Hong Kong Jockey Club; Prof Philip C.H. Chan, Deputy President and Provost, PolyU; Dr Louis Ng Chi-wa, Deputy Director (Culture), Leisure and Cultural Services Department, HKSAR Government; Mr. Kim Salkeld, Head of Efficiency Unit, HKSAR Government; Dr. Joseph Lee, President, Wofoo Social Enterprises; Ms Malini Thadani, Head of Corporate Sustainability Asia Pacific, HSBC; Mr Chua Hoi-wai, Chief Executive, The Hong Kong Council of Social Service; Prof Cees de Bont, Dean of School of Design &amp; Swire Chair Professor of Design, PolyU; Mr Alvin Yip, Director of J.C.DISI, PolyU; and Mr Hing Chao, Founder and Chairman of Earthpulse officiated at the opening ceremony.Tonight, over a thousand of participants rolled into the modernised temple fair around the Jockey Club Innovation Tower on PolyU campus to celebrate the festive season with their families and friends.  The Full Moon Party infused various modern elements into regional cuisines, performances and traditional artistry. More than 50 social enterprises and traditional stalls offered various workshops, demonstrations and local delicacy throughout the event.Ms Winnie Ying, Executive Manager, Charities of The Hong Kong Jockey Club said, "We are looking forward to the series of exciting events of 10DAYFEST, and hope that PolyU J.C.DISI will continue to cultivate creative talents, bringing infinite possibilities to Hong Kong's future development."Prof Philip C.H. Chan, Deputy President and Provost, PolyU added that "University is in the position to take an active role in driving social innovation, and 10DAYFEST is an epitome of PolyU's commitment."Besides celebrating local culture and social entrepreneurship, the temple fair was also a perfect evening for families to get together when the young and the old reunited and traditions and modernity coexisted. The entrance of the party is a revamped ancestor hall constructed in welded metal wire fences, allowing participants to moon gaze inside the structure. The installation designed by Studio Zhai is a reinterpretation of vernacular architecture using contemporary building material.The Hon Wong Kam-sing, Secretary for the Environment, HKSAR Government said, "The exhibition "108 Stories of Social Innovation" showcases stories of thinkers and pioneers who have been devoting themselves to social innovation and how they committed themselves to make our society a better place. The use of Big Waster to promote environmental initiatives is also an example of social innovation. The "Full Moon Party" indeed is a novel way for the public to celebrate Mid-Autumn Festival."Other programmes of the "Full Moon Party" included:Hawker Fair
More than 50 social enterprises and micro businesses operators set up stalls to provide traditional gourmet delights, including charcoal-grilled egg waffles from Lower Ngau Tau Kok Estate, teochow waffle from Yau Man Tei's Pitt Street, and delicious soy pastries made by soy residue, etc.Workshops and Demonstrations
Families and the general public took part in three exclusive workshops, namely Hakka Unicorn Making, Seal Carving and Guangdong Hand Puppets. All workshops are led by senior artistry masters teamed up with young designers which offered opportunities for traditional craft masters to promote their crafts and pass on knowledge to the young generation.Performance
In order to offer a richer and more diverse experience to the public, J.C.DISI organized this opening under the joint banner with the Hong Kong Culture Festival to present a series of mind-boggling reinterpretations of cultural performances. These performances includes a fusion of Hakka unicorn dance &amp; modern dance; a crossover recital by famed erhuist Hsin Hsiao-hung, Suona player Agnes Ding and pop singer Shila Smzah; Kung Fu fashion show, and Cantonese opera among many others. Each performance demonstrates how traditions can be dished up in a new form.  10DAYFEST will be held from 25 September to 4 October, with a series of interesting, insightful and meaningful events. Highlights of 10DAYFEST include: "Thinker's Lecture" - Professor Emeritus Hsia Chu-joe from National Taiwan University shares his views on the urban development of Hong Kong, China and Taiwan; "G/Local Seminar" - Social innovation scholar Oriol Pascual from Barcelona presents to us the scene of social entrepreneurship in Spain; "Meaningful Cinema" screens five thought-provoking and intriguing movies from different countries.   Public admission to programmes is free. For more details and registration, please visit: http://www.10dayfest.hk
About Jockey Club Design Institute for Social InnovationAsia's first design institute dedicated to Social InnovationSupported by the generous funding from The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust, the Jockey Club Design Institute for Social Innovation (J.C.DISI) convenes university expertise, curates cross-disciplinary projects, and constructs partnerships for social well-being and positive systematic change. The Instituteis located at the Jockey Club Innovation Tower on PolyU campus, where designers, scholars, public intellectuals, community members engage in dialogues pertaining to Hong Kong's future. In particular, J.C.DISI focuses on articulating transdisciplinary and alternative solutions to the complex challenges today – from urban sustainability, ageing population, family and youth, public services, social entrepreneurship to empowering technologies for the disadvantaged.
http://www.sd.polyu.edu.hk/en/j.c.-innovation-tower/jockey-club-design-institute-for-social-innovation
https://www.facebook.com/jcdisi
