
[date]2015.11.04[/date]
[title]PolyU was approved to establish two Hong Kong Branches of Chinese National Engineering Research Centres[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has been approved by the State Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) to establish two Hong Kong Branches of Chinese National Engineering Research Centres (CNERCs), namely the Hong Kong Branch of National Rail Transit Electrification and Automation Engineering Technology Research Centre and Hong Kong Branch of National Engineering Research Centre for Steel Construction. In the next three years, each branch will receive a funding support of a maximum amount of HK$5 million per year from the Innovation and Technology Commission as well as a dollar-to-dollar matching fund from PolyU to support its research and development for benefits of the Mainland and Hong Kong.
Delighted with this achievement, PolyU Vice President (Research Development), Ir Professor Ping-kong Alexander Wai said, “The Hong Kong Branches serve as key components of CNERCs. The approval of two Hong Kong Branches of CNERCs by MOST manifests recognition of the R&amp;D capability of our research teams as well as our previous successful technology transfer experiences in the areas of rail engineering and steel construction. In the future, the two Hong Kong Branches will work closely with their mainland counterparts, and leverage on the respective strengths of both sides to promote applied research and development projects conducive to both the Mainland and Hong Kong.”
Hong Kong Branch of National Rail Transit Electrification and Automation Engineering Technology Research Centre
In recent years, the PolyU multi-disciplinary research team has established close partnership with the National Rail Transit Electrician and Automation Engineering Technology Research Centre at Southwest Jiaotong University to conduct joint research on high speed rail in China, making significant contributions to technology innovation and transfer in the industry.
Professor Ni Yiqing, Head of Hong Kong Branch, and Professor of PolyU’s Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, said, “The establishment of the Hong Kong Branch shall provide a high-level platform to strengthen the collaboration between the Mainland and Hong Kong on China’s high speed rail.”
The Hong Kong Branch is dedicated to becoming a world-class smart rail technology research centre. It will focus on developing advanced rail technologies to enhance the safety, reliability and comfort of China’s high speed rail. Three research laboratories will be established under the branch, namely Research Laboratory for High Speed Rail Traction Power System and Safety Technology, Research Laboratory for Advanced Sensing Techniques for High Speed Rail Monitoring, and Research Laboratory for Condition Monitoring and Vibration Control of High Speed Trains. The laboratories will carry out comprehensive and in-depth research on the monitoring, analysis, and assessment of high speed rail and the development of more intelligent protection and control technology.
Hong Kong Branch of National Engineering Research Centre for Steel Construction
According to the statistics provided by the World Steel Association, the annual steel production of China increased steadily over the past decade, reaching 822.7 mmt in 2014 and contributing 50.3% of the global annual steel production.
Professor Chung Kwok Fai, Head of the Hong Kong Branch, and Associate Head of PolyU’s Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering pointed out that, “China is the largest steel producing country in the world and she is also producing a wide range of high performance steel materials. However, the international market is not familiar with the engineering design and applications of these materials. The branch will work closely with the construction industry of Hong Kong to build an international technological platform for steel construction in order to showcase the technological advancement of the Chinese steel construction industry to the world and promote a wide use of Chinese steel materials in the international market.” The Hong Kong Branch will focus on two major research areas, namely sustainable infrastructure development and structural engineering on modern steel construction.
As anticipated by the China Iron and Steel Association, the annual export of Chinese steel materials and steel structures will grow to HK$345.6 billion to HK$518.4 billion in the coming 5 to 8 years. With 5% of professional engineering services being provided by Hong Kong construction industry, it is expected to generate an extra income ranging from HK$17.3 billion to HK$25.9 billion.
