
[date]2015.08.20[/date]
[title]PolyU announces appointment of Vice President (Administration and Business)[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) announced today (20 August) the appointment of Dr Miranda Lou to the post of Vice President (Administration and Business) with effect from 21 September 2015.
In her new capacity, Dr Lou will oversee the planning and operation of various key functional units of PolyU including the Finance Office, Human Resources Office, Information Technology Services Office, Institute for Entrepreneurship, Institute of Advanced Executive Education, University Health Service, Legal Counsel and administratively, Internal Audit Unit. In addition, PolyU's subsidiaries such as Hotel ICON Limited, PolyU Enterprise Plus Limited, PolyU Research Limited, PolyU Technology and Consultancy Company Limited and Shenzhen Base/Shenzhen Research Institute will also be under Dr Lou's purview.
Dr Miranda Lou is a seasoned leader with extensive experience in strategic, business and functional management. She spent a major part of her career at Orient Overseas Container Line Limited (OOCL Group), where her last position was Chief Operating Officer of OOCL Logistics. At OOCL Group, Dr Lou provided strategic direction and enhanced organizational capabilities with the introduction of innovative practices and re-engineering initiatives. Apart from the commercial sector, Dr Lou has worked at the local office and headquarters of the Community Relations Department of the Independent Commission Against Corruption to promote corruption prevention and business ethics to the community.
Dr Lou received her Doctor of Business Administration degree from PolyU. She has also served in a number of industry boards and government bodies.
"Under Dr Lou's leadership, I am confident that the key functional units will be able to deliver the best possible performance needed by the University as it scales to the next level of excellence," President Timothy W. Tong said.
Attachment: Biography of Dr Miranda Lou
