
[date]2016.02.05[/date]
[title]PolyU Fund-raising Dinner 2015/16 Raises Funds for Student Development [/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Fund-raising Dinner 2015/16 was held on 25 January 2016 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. With the theme of "A Legacy to Cherish • A Future to Build", the Dinner brought together over 600 distinguished guests, alumni, staff, friends and supporters of PolyU for a meaningful reunion. The Dinner was kicked off by PolyU Council Chairman Mr Chan Tze-ching, PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong, Chairman of the PolyU Foundation Dr Patrick S.C. Poon, Chairman of the PolyU Court and Treasurer of the PolyU Foundation Professor Roy Chung, and Chairman of the Dinner's Organizing Committee Ms Fiona Cheung Sum-yu.
Highlights of the Dinner included a sharing session featuring PolyU alumnus and artiste Miss Gigi Leung and a variety of musical performances. They are singing by Ms Fiona Cheung Sum-yu, Guzheng performance by Dr Raymond Chan and Dr Lunlun Zou, Jingqu performance by Mrs Peggy Mak and Mr Hugh Wong, as well as the performance by the President's Band comprising Professor Timothy W. Tong, students and alumni, with immediate past Council Chairman Ms Marjorie Yang, Ir Professor Daniel M. Cheng, Dr Allen Shi and Mr Johnny Yeung Chi-hung.
Among the climaxes of the Dinner was a live auction of exquisite artworks, high jewellery and premium wines and items sponsored by Ms Shirley Chan Suk-ling, Miss Cally Kwong, Mrs Nina Lam, Dr and Mrs Samuel Lam, Mr Louis Mak Law-mo, Prince Jewellery &amp; Watch, Seventh Son Restaurant, Mr Irons Sze, Dr Henry Tang Ying-yen and Mrs Cindy Young.
A mini exhibition themed "Embarking on a Journey of Innovation and Creativity" was also staged concurrently with the Dinner, which featured a selection of interesting projects, demonstrating how PolyU researchers, graduates and students innovate to build a better future for the world.
With its proceeds designated to support student development, the Dinner owed its success to the generous support of sponsors. They were Premier Sponsors Mrs Shirley Chan Pau Shiu-yeng and FANCL, Diamond Sponsor Dr Patrick S.C. Poon and Mrs Wendy Poon, and Gold Sponsors Ms Fiona Cheung Sum-yu and Win Hanverky Holdings Limited, various Jade Sponsors and Pearl Sponsors, as well as the sponsors of Dinner tickets and gifts.
The PolyU Foundation was officially established on 1 July 2014. It aims to support the University's endeavours in the improvement of facilities and related resources, promotion of research and development, and enhancement of the all-round development and competitiveness of students.  It serves to connect and recognize supporters and friends of the University.
 
