
[date]2015.05.15[/date]
[title]PolyU receives donation from Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation to launch the Phase 3 Service Programme of the PolyU-Henry G. Leong Mobile Integrative Health Centre[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) received HK$11.31 million from Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation in support of the Phase 3 Service Programme of the PolyU-Henry G. Leong Mobile Integrative Health Centre (MIHC). The launching ceremony was held today (15 May) at PolyU campus with PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong and Dr Edwin Leong, Chairman of Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation, as the officiating guests.
With the generous donation from Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation, PolyU's School of Nursing (SN) set up the first-of-its-kind mobile integrative health centre on a modified truck in 2007. MIHC is well equipped with a variety of advanced health screening equipments, enabling healthcare professionals and students from SN to provide comprehensive health screening services and education to the elderly in need. Besides, MIHC also offers a platform for scientific research on elderly and provides PolyU students with placement opportunities. In 2010 and again this year, Dr Leong continued to support the second and third phase service. New equipments and facilities were added onto MIHC and its scope of service was also extended. In the past eight years, Tai Hung Fai Charitable Foundation fully supported the operation of MIHC, which has served more than 4,000 elderly in the community with a total number of visitors of 40,000.
Addressing at the ceremony, Prof. Tong said, "MIHC combines three very important elements in one single entity, namely service, research and education. While SN staff and students strive to monitor the health of the elderly, the Centre also takes up the roles to facilitate scientific research in response to the ageing society, as well as to provide placement opportunities for PolyU students. It truly illustrates PolyU's new slogan 'Opening Minds • Shaping the Future'. I would like to thank Dr Leong for his continuous unfailing support to PolyU and MIHC."
Dr Leong remarked, "Hong Kong is facing ageing problem. By 2041, there will be 2.6 million elderly aged 65 or above in the city. In line with government policy to promote 'ageing in place', MIHC will continue to upgrade its services to help more senior citizens while also provide opportunities for research and placement."
The Phase 3 service programme of MIHC involves the addition of new equipment including a vision screener for basic vision checking. The Centre will collaborate with non-profit organizations to set up mini health check stations to provide health education and case screening. Elderly with special needs will be referred to MIHC for proper care and advice. Researchers will also make good use of the data collected at the MIHC in a hope to provide insights in dealing with the aspects related to elderly epidemiology, community health and screening of high risk groups. On the education side, the Centre will provide more service learning opportunities for PolyU students.
