
[date]2015.11.25[/date]
[title]PolyU's School of Nursing Hosted Hong Kong's Second Innovation Day and Innovation Awards Competition[/title]
The School of Nursing (SN) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) established The Hong Kong Innovation Academy (HKIA) in 2013 with the aim to provide a platform for local innovators to showcase and promote their innovations in healthcare. This year, HKIA held its second Hong Kong Innovation Awards and the 2nd Hong Kong Innovation Day. Champion of the Innovation Awards Competition will attend the Global Healthcare Innovation Day as a representative of Hong Kong to be held at Calgary, Alberta, Canada in 2016 to compete with other champions from different parts of the world for the Innovation for Health Award of Excellence.
The 2nd Hong Kong Innovation Day was held in PolyU campus today (25 November 2015). To stimulate innovative ideas and concepts for the benefit of patients, clinicians as well as the healthcare industry, HKIA invited researchers from local healthcare organisations, universities and tertiary institutes to compete for the 2nd Hong Kong Innovation Awards. Inventors were required to submit solutions and innovations addressing current issues in medical and healthcare science.
The competition was strongly supported by the industry from academia, hospitals and healthcare device industry. Nine entries were shortlisted to compete for the Innovation Awards. The jury panel is comprised of patent lawyers, intellectual property experts, professors, doctors and representatives from local medical devices associations and the biotech industry. The judging panel assessed the entries with expertise based on the following criteria of the product: 'scientific or technological solutions', 'fully developed or implemented in healthcare settings after 6 to 9 months', 'potentially marketable products' and 'at the pre-commercial stage'.
The champion will represent Hong Kong to attend the Global Healthcare Innovation Day at Calgary, Alberta, Canada in 2016 to compete with other champions from different parts of the world for the Innovation for Health Award of Excellence.
Results of Innovation Awards of Hong Kong Innovation Day:
ChampionProject Title: Scolioscan: Radiation-free Assessment of Scoliosis using 3D Ultrasound Imaging Project Leader: Prof. Yong Ping ZHENG, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
First Runner-upProject Title: Mobile Retinal Imaging for Smart Diabetic Care Project Leader: Prof. Jane YOU, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Second Runner-upProject Title: Protective pants imbedded with Impact Protectors Based on 3D Spacer Fabrics Project Leader: Ms Yan CHAN, The Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel
Audience Favourite AwardProject Title: Scolioscan: Radiation-free Assessment of Scoliosis using 3D Ultrasound Imaging Project Leader: Prof. Yong Ping ZHENG, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
About the Hong Kong Innovation AcademyTo nourish a culture of innovations in healthcare, the School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University has taken the initiative to organise Hong Kong's first innovation academy, The Hong Kong Innovation Academy (HKIA) in 2013. It is part of a global setup of leading universities, led by the University of Geneva, and the Global Healthcare Innovation Day will be co-organised by all partners including the HKIA.
