
[date]2016.01.09[/date]
[title]4,600-strong PolyU team runs for social cause in Hong Kong Marathon 2016 and honoured with the Top Prize of "Most Supportive Group Award" again[/title]
With more than 4,600 students, staff, alumni and their family members and friends joining its running team, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has set another new record for the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2016 (Hong Kong Marathon) which will be held on the coming Sunday (17 January). By sending the largest single team for this international event for seventh consecutive years, PolyU has taken home the Champion of the "Most Supportive Group Award" which means for every 15 runners on the track, one is from PolyU.
Last year, PolyU Running Team joined hands with social enterprise FOODSPORT to bring in the concept of converting the calories into food units to Hong Kong Marathon. PolyU will sustain the momentum this year by turning the calories PolyU runners burnt during the run into food units for donation to its beneficiary, food bank Feeding Hong Kong. Therefore, every drop of sweat is for a good cause.
The Prize Presentation Ceremony was held today (9 January) during the Hong Kong Marathon Carnival at Victoria Park. Professor Maurice Yap, Dean of the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences of PolyU, cheered on by PolyU staff and students, received the Top Prize of "Most Supportive Group Award" on behalf of the University. To help participants gear up for this long-distance challenge, PolyU Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, together with The Hong Kong Jockey Club Sports Medicine and Health Sciences Centre set up a booth at the Hong Kong Marathon Carnival where visitors could receive free test and assessment including core stability, flexibility, running gait, body composition and sports taping demonstration. In addition, a team of PolyU registered physiotherapists will also provide support and offer basic treatment and professional advice for PolyU runners on the Hong Kong Marathon day.
The organizing committee of the PolyU Running Team was grateful to all runners, cheering team members and volunteers for their enthusiastic support to this community-wide sports activity. The event would further foster a sense of belonging and unity among the students, staff and alumni.
The committee also expressed sincere thanks to belif, Nike, Swiss Miss and Tao Ti for their generous sponsorship for the team and the race.
PolyU formed its debut running team for the Hong Kong Marathon in 2009 and the number of PolyU runners has grown steadily since then. It has set a new record for "the number of runners of a single team" since 2010, snatching the Top Prize of "Most Supportive Group Award" for seventh consecutive years.
