
[date]2015.09.24[/date]
[title]PolyU announces good admission profile for 2015/16 and Education Info Day 2015[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) announces today (24 September 2015) the impressive admission profile of HKDSE students in academic year 2015/16. A total of 222 students with at least one subject at level 5 (and with both Chinese and English at level 4 or above) are admitted this year; and a total of 322 students with at least one subject at level 5 (and with both Chinese and English at level 3 or above) are admitted. PolyU has been ranking the third among the nine local tertiary institutions for three consecutive years in the two abovementioned categories.
PolyU boasts an encouraging admission profile. Apart from the Design programme (which focuses on the outstanding performance of applicants in the design area), the HKDSE scores of average admittees range from 18 to 35, with an average HKDSE score of 23.9 for their best 5 subjects. When counting the 4 Core + Best 2 Electives, the HKDSE scores range from 21 to 38, with an average value of 27.0. Given this admission profile, PolyU will continue its unique mission to excel itself in professional education, applied research and partnership for the betterment of Hong Kong, the nation and the world. Members of the public can access the average scores of 2015/16 HKDSE applicants admitted to our programmes via the Study@PolyU website (www.polyu.edu.hk/study).
PolyU will hold its Education Info Day on 10 October on campus to provide participants with first-hand information on its full-time undergraduate and higher diploma programmes. Both JUPAS and Non-JUPAS applicants are most welcome to obtain detailed information about studying at PolyU.
Three JUPAS admission talks will be held on the event day to help Secondary six students familiarize with the admission requirements and selection mechanism of our full-time degree and Higher Diploma programmes. In addition, two dedicated admission talks will be arranged for non-JUPAS applicants.
Academic staff and student ambassadors of PolyU will be available to provide consultation and answer enquiries on admission arrangements and other important reminders for prospective applicants. The student ambassadors will also share their campus life experiences with secondary school students.
To give prospective applicants in-depth information on PolyU's study programmes, over 90 information seminars will be organized by its various academic faculties, schools as well as academic supporting departments. A number of guided visits will also be provided for visiting different kinds of research centres, laboratories, studios, and workshops. Other highlights of the event include: exhibition held at the House of Innovation where many PolyU's award-winning research projects are displayed, performances by PolyU's outstanding sportsmen and student bodies. Furthermore, various exhibitions, demonstrations and other attractions will be staged to make the Info Day lively and vibrant.
The PolyU Education Info Day will be open from 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. For more details, please visit its official website at URL: www.polyu.edu.hk/infoday/
