
[date]2016.01.21[/date]
[title]PolyU Organizes the Asian Knowledge Forum and Bring Top Knowledge Organizations to Hong Kong[/title]
The Knowledge Management and Innovation Research Centre (KMIRC) of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) successfully held the Asian Knowledge Forum cum Award Presentation Ceremony of the Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award 2015 on 21 January 2016. Global leading knowledge management (KM) experts in Australia, Singapore, South Korea, India, Indonesian, Iran, Hong Kong and Mainland China gathered to share their various successful stories with the participants in the Forum. Attracting more than 150 participants, it is one of the biggest KM events being held in Hong Kong in recent years.
This year's MAKE Award Presentation Ceremony presented the Asian, Hong Kong and Mainland China awards as recognition to organizations adopting outstanding KM practices. The winners of the most prestigious award, 2015 Global Independent Operating Unit (IOU) MAKE Award, included three Hong Kong organizations, namely Architectural Services Department of HKSAR Government, Arup and EY (Hong Kong), and one Chinese mainland organization, COFCO Nutrition and Health Research Institute. COFCO is the second Chinese organization which won this award.
The event has won the support of government officials, business leaders as well as several professional, business and industrial associations. Officiated at the ceremony were Mr. Kim A. Salkeld, JP, Head of Efficiency Unit of HKSAR Government; Mrs. Agnes Mak, MH, JP, Executive Director of Hong Kong Productivity Council and Dr. Miranda Lou, Vice President (Administration and Business) of PolyU.
Mr. Kim A. Salkeld stressed at the ceremony, "The secret of great knowledge enterprises is not the knowledge management, the capturing, codification and passing on of light from existing knowledge, but the process of learning, of finding out how to use old knowledge in new ways, or, from the feedstock of old knowledge poured into the furnace of new problems, forging and crafting new ideas, products and practices that are adapted to the changing world through which we and our enterprises must find our way."
Mrs. Agnes Mak said, "A corporate culture that advocates sharing and innovation can lead to the success of KM; on the other hand, the implementation of KM itself also enhances the corporate culture. This mutual reinforcement will fuel growth and the competitiveness of organizations."
Speaking at the ceremony, Dr. Miranda Lou said, "Challenges facing enterprises and organizations nowadays in this rapidly changing world. No matter what institutions we are serving, good management of organizational knowledge, effective communication, sharing and creation of new knowledge will make a lot of difference to our success and sustainable growth.”
The 2-day Forum consists of interactive knowledge market, sharing by MAKE Award winners as well as company visits, enabling participants to benchmark their KM performance and learn from each other.
The MAKE Award is an international benchmark of best practice in knowledge management. It was launched in 1998 by KNOW Network, an international web-based professional knowledge sharing network and Teleos, a research firm specializing in knowledge management. Since 2008, the MAKE Award has been introduced in Hong Kong and Chinese mainland by the PolyU Knowledge Management and Innovation Research Centre, which also provides KM consultancy services to both the private and public sectors.
