
[date]2015.04.13[/date]
[title]PolyU hosts The CAE-HKAES Joint Summit on Innovation and Technology Industry in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) hosts a two-day summit - The CAE-HKAES Joint Summit on Innovation and Technology Industry in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta (PRD) from 13-14 April 2015 in Hong Kong.
The Summit, hosted by PolyU, is jointly organized by The Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) and the Hong Kong Academy of Engineering Sciences (HKAES). It aims to provide a valuable platform for exploring directions for the future development of innovation and technology industry in Hong Kong and the PRD through a series of presentations and panel discussions.
The opening of the Summit was chaired by Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, with Mr. John Tsang Chun Wah, GBM, JP, Financial Secretary of The HKSAR Government and Prof. Choi Yu Leuk, President of HKAES, delivering the welcome speech and opening remarks. It was followed by keynote speeches from distinguished speakers including Prof. Zhou Ji, President of CAE, who shared his insights on "Engineering and China's Modernization"; Dr. Victor Fung Kwok King, Group Chairman of Fung Group, who talked about "Innovating in the New Global Economy – The Hong Kong – Pearl River Delta Advantage"; and Prof. Hou Jian Guo, Vice Minister of Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, who spoke on "Reform and Develop in Line with Innovation-driven Development Strategy".
At the Summit, policy makers, industry leaders, experts from the Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas will share their views and insights on a number of key issues, including policies and role of government, research funding, research and development, knowledge transfer/exchange, and collaboration between Hong Kong and the PRD region.
Hong Kong has been highly focused on service-oriented industries over the past few decades, with most of its GDP and workforce coming from the four pillar industries, including financial services, trading and logistics, tourism, and professional services. It is believed that the presence of a vibrant innovation and technology industry would be beneficial to the sustainability and vitality of Hong Kong's economy. Nationally, the Mainland Chinese government has recently emphasized the nations' commitment to innovation-driven development. Under this context, the Summit serves to gather policy makers, industry leaders, and technology experts of the region and inspire them to leverage the existing advantages of Hong Kong, as well as the synergy between Hong Kong and the PRD for the development of innovation and technology industry.
Prof. Timothy W. Tong, President of PolyU, noted that, "We are delighted to host this Summit which provides a timely platform where partnerships can be forged among universities, research institutes, industry and governments to explore and advance the development of the innovation and technology industry in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta."
CAE is a national organization and the highest advisory academic body in the field of engineering and technology of the nation. One of the missions of CAE is to provide strategic advice to the Chinese Government on major issues. HKAES is an organization of Hong Kong's most eminent engineers. One of the missions of the Academy is to promote the advancement of the science, art and practice of engineering for the benefit of the public.
