
[date]2015.10.06[/date]
[title]Import and Export Industry Implemented Recognition of Prior Learning Mechanism &amp; PolyU Appointed as Assessment Agency [/title]
The import and export industry has implemented the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) mechanism since 1 September 2015, and the Shipping Research Centre of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) is the appointed assessment agency. The launching ceremony was held today (6 October 2015) by the Qualifications Framework Secretariat and PolyU. The event was co-organized by The Hong Kong Chinese Importers' &amp; Exporters' Association, The Hong Kong Exporters' Association, Hong Kong FTU Qualifications Assessment Centre Limited, and The Hong Kong General Chamber of Small and Medium Business.Officiating at the ceremony were Professor Philip Chan, PolyU Deputy President and Provost; the Honourable Mr Gregory So Kam-leung, Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development of the HKSAR Government; the Honourable Mr Wong Ting Kwong, member of Legislative Council for Import and Export; Mr Michael Hui, Chairman of Import and Export Industry Training Advisory Committee (ITAC); Mr Chong Shing-hum, Convenor of Promotion and Consultation Sub-committee of the Import and Export ITAC; Professor Edwin Cheng, Dean of Faculty of Business and Fung Yiu King – Wing Hang Bank Professor in Business Administration of PolyU; Dr Venus Lun, Director of the Shipping Research Centre of PolyU; Ms Pecvin Yong, Principal Assistant Secretary for Education; and Mr Patrick Pang, General Manager of the Qualifications Framework Secretariat.Addressing the ceremony, Professor Philip Chan said that PolyU is dedicated to promoting continuing professional development and life-long learning. The University community has been taking an active role in different development stages of the Qualifications Framework (QF) including conducting evaluation on demand and research on prospects of continuing professional development as well as life-long learning; serving as consultants to industry advisory committees and members of fund steering committee; and offering relevant education and training programmes. The Shipping Research Centre under PolyU's Faculty of Business, in particular, is directly involved in the promotion of QF by formulating Specification of Competency Standards, designing teaching materials and organizing seminars. These enable practitioners, employers, training organizations and professional bodies to have thorough understanding of QF. Mr Michael Hui remarked that PolyU offers a variety of education programmes geared towards meeting the changing needs of the industry. He believes that PolyU, as the assessment agency, will provide 500,000 practitioners with quality qualification recognition services. With concerted efforts of the supporting organizations, RPL mechanism will be able to reach out to more practitioners and be implemented effectively. The event was attended by around 200 participants, including practitioners, employers and members of industry associations. Following the signing of a cooperation agreement by PolyU and supporting organizations was the sharing of experiences by employers and practitioners. The event concluded with the presentation of certificates to 36 assessors.QF, launched in 2008, is a seven-level hierarchy of qualifications covering the academic, vocational and continuing education sectors. RPL under QF enables industry practitioners of various backgrounds to receive formal recognition of the knowledge, skills and experience already acquired. It facilitates employees with learning aspirations to know what competencies they have acquired through experience or previous training in the industries, so that they can determine their starting point for learning and progression, and reduce duplication in training for the same skills. Practitioners applying for RPL are required to go through assessment procedures carried out by government-appointed assessment agencies. The import and export industry is the eleventh industry implementing the RPL mechanism. For application details for RPL qualifications for the import and export industry, please visit website of PolyU's Shipping Research Centre at URL: http://www.lms.polyu.edu.hk/en/centres/src/rpl/
