
[date]2015.05.18[/date]
[title]PolyU holds Lam Tai Fai Amphitheatre naming ceremony[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) has named an amphitheatre on its campus after The Hon. Lam Tai Fai, a member of the Legislative Council of the HKSAR and the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, in recognition of his significant contributions to education and community services, as well as his ardent support to the University.
A naming ceremony held today (18 May) was graced by the presence of the Acting Chief Executive Mrs Carrie Lam as the Guest of Honour. The Acting Chief Executive officiated at the ribbon cutting and plaque unveiling ceremonies together with The Hon. Lam Tai Fai and Mrs Martha Lam; PolyU Council Deputy Chairman Mr Chan Tze-ching; Treasurer of the University Dr Lawrence Li; Court Chairman Professor Roy Chung; PolyU Foundation Chairman Dr Patrick Poon; and PolyU President Professor Timothy W. Tong. Mr Lam's family members and friends also attended the ceremony to witness this memorable moment.
In his welcoming address, Professor Tong expressed sincere gratitude to Mr Lam for his generous contribution and commended on Mr Lam's staunch support to the University over the years. Professor Tong said that PolyU took pride in Mr Lam, a distinguished alumnus, adding, "Today's ceremony bears testimony to the University's gratitude to Mr Lam for his long-standing support and his contributions to Hong Kong." He served on the Council of PolyU as a member and is currently a member of the University Court, giving invaluable advice to the University concerning its development.
Mr Lam Tai Fai graduated from the Institute of Textiles and Clothing of The Hong Kong Polytechnic, the forerunning institution of PolyU, in 1981. He was awarded the University Fellowship and the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration by PolyU in 2000 and 2004 respectively. In 2001, Mr Lam was elected an Outstanding PolyU Alumnus in recognition of his services for PolyU. Mr Lam has held leadership positions in numerous public bodies. His contributions have been instrumental in helping the Government formulate and implement measures in business and industrial development and public administration.
The "Lam Tai Fai Amphitheatre" connects the Jockey Club Auditorium and the Choi Kai Yau Building (Block QR). The Amphitheatre, covering a sector-shaped area of approximately 1,100 square meters and a five-tier podium accommodating up to 200 spectators, offers a spacious environment ideal for outdoor performances, gatherings, displays and exhibitions.
