
[date]2016.01.13[/date]
[title]PolyU welcomes the initiatives related to education and innovation in Policy Address[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) welcomes the government's initiatives related to education and innovation as mentioned in the Policy Address delivered by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region today (13 January 2016). 
The government has announced a series of plans to encourage investment in local innovation and technology start-ups, and to support the development of innovation and technology in Hong Kong. 
PolyU President Prof. Timothy W. Tong said these plans will facilitate the higher education sector to scale up their efforts in innovation and technology, as well as in commercialization and knowledge transfer. 
"PolyU, through our interdisciplinary expertise, will continue to engage in relevant research which enhances the competitiveness of industries, meets the needs of society and improves people's lives," said Prof Tong. 
PolyU also welcomes the establishment of a civil aviation academy, which will help Hong Kong strengthen its position as an international aviation hub. With the support of Boeing and other key industry players, PolyU has set up the Aviation Services Research Centre since 2012, and the University will launch new aviation programmes in the coming years. 
With regard to youth development, PolyU supports the government's measures to help equip young people and broaden their horizons. The University has launched various activities including Silk Road Global Youth Leadership Programme, Service-Learning projects and internships to enhance students' understanding of the social, cultural and economic development of the mainland. 
PolyU has launched a number of initiatives that are aligned with the "One Belt One Road" strategy.  In May 2015, PolyU joined hands with Xi'an Jiaotong University to initiate the Universities Alliance of the New Silk Road to steer collaborations in education, science and technology, as well as foster cultural exchange. 17 students from Kazakhstan have enrolled in our undergraduate programmes in 2015/16.  
Prof. Tong said, "Looking ahead, the University will endeavour to step up its work in innovation and technology, education and youth development, thereby nurturing talents and enhancing Hong Kong's competitiveness."
