
[date]2015.09.18[/date]
[title]PolyU - University Fellows Association inaugurated to support all-round development of students[/title]
Formed by over 80 University Fellows of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), "The PolyU University Fellows Association" (the Association) held its inauguration ceremony today (18 September).
Since 2000, PolyU has conferred the title of University Fellowships upon a number of distinguished personages and leaders in Hong Kong and other parts of the world to record its appreciation and recognition of their significant contributions to PolyU and the community. To date, over 90 distinguished individuals have been conferred this prestigious title. The establishment of the Association is initiated by a group of University Fellows who are devoted to promote PolyU's mission in serving the community, in particular to support all-round development of students, through a strengthened network amongst the University Fellows.
The Honourable John C Tsang, Acting Chief Executive of The Government of the Hong Kong SAR, was the Guest-of-Honour of the event. Over 200 guests, comprising the University Fellows, PolyU Court and Council members, PolyU senior management and student representatives, attended the event.
Addressing the ceremony, Mr Tsang said, "Tapping on their diverse expertise and experiences, the University Fellows will make further contributions toward the university by fostering the all-rounded development of the young generation."
Mr Tsang, accompanied by Prof. Timothy W. Tong, PolyU President and Honorary Patron of the Association, officiated at the inauguration ceremony of the Association and its first Management Committee and presented all members of the Association with membership certificates.
Prof. Tong strongly believed that the University Fellows will offer their invaluable knowledge, expertise and insights to the University in support of its teaching, research and knowledge transfer for the benefit of the community. Delivering welcoming address at the ceremony, Prof. Tong said, "With the support of the Association, the University's efforts to fulfill its pledge of ‘Opening Minds • Shaping the Future' will be further strengthened."
Prof. Roy Chung Chi-ping, and Mrs Katherine Ngan Ng Yu-ying, Co-Chairpersons of the Association stated that the University Fellows come from all walks of life, but they share the same vision and passion with PolyU to inspire students with all-round development to make contribution to the well-being of the society.
The Association is organizing the "University Fellows Association Talk Series". Members of the Association will be speakers to share with PolyU students their invaluable knowledge and views on hot topics so as to widen students' horizons.
The Association currently has 64 Founding Members and 18 Members from a wide range of industries, professions and disciplines.
Members of the First Management Committee of the Association (2015-2017) include:
Co-chairpersons: Prof. Roy Chung Chi-ping, BBS, JP (2004/2005 Recipient) Mrs Katherine Ngan Ng Yu-ying, MH, JP (2006/2007 Recipient)
Members (in order of year of conferment and English surnames): Dr Henry Tseng Chee (2000 Recipient) Dr Raymond Chan, JP (2002 Recipient) Dr York Chow Yat-ngok, GBS, JP (2004/2005 Recipient) Dr Yu Kwok-chun, GBS, SBS, JP (2006/2007 Recipient) Prof. Angel S.P. Chan Lau, BBS, JP (2009 Recipient) Ir Prof. Johnny Fan Siu-kay (2009 Recipient) Ms Fiona Cheung Sum-yu, MH (2010/2011 Recipient) Ms Katherine Hung Siu-lin (2010/2011 Recipient) Miss Cally Kwong Mei-wan (2011/2012 Recipient) Mr Wong Tit-shing (2012/2013 Recipient) Mr Johnny Yeung Chi-hung, MH (2013/2014 Recipient) Dr Dennis Ng Wang-pun, BBS, MH (2014/2015 Recipient)
For more details of the Association, please visit its official website at URL: www.polyufellow.hk
