
[date]2015.08.21[/date]
[title]"Lead" in water samples collected from hot water dispensers at Homantin Halls of Residence higher than World Health Organisation level[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) confirmed that the "lead" in the water samples collected from the hot water dispensers at Homantin Halls of Residence is higher than the World Health Organization (WHO)'s recommended level. While an investigation into the cause has immediately been launched, distilled water is now made available for consumption by hall residents.
The University has appointed a company registered under The Hong Kong Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (HOKLAS) to test the quality of water in Block Z, Jockey Club Innovation Tower (JCIT), the Halls of Residence at Homantin, Hung Hom and University House at the end of July, in view of the prevailing grave concern about water safety.
The findings from the report received from the company yesterday deserved some attention and the University thus immediately mobilized our own experts from Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology to conduct another round of test this morning (21 August)　at Homantin Halls of Residence, with a view to ascertaining whether the quality of water is of concern. Meanwhile, arrangement has been made to ensure enough distilled water dispensers are available for use by all hall residents within today.
The results of our own test was out this afternoon and it is confirmed that the "lead" in the water samples collected from the hot water dispensers at Homantin Halls of Residence is higher than the WHO's recommended level. The University has immediately informed the hall residents. Distilled water has been made available at all pantries.
A working group chaired by Professor J M Ko, Interim Vice President (Campus Development and Facilities), has just been set up to look into the cause and follow up on the remedial measures.
As for other buildings in the University, a test was conducted in November last year and all the data collected confirmed that the fresh water supplied is of good quality. While the annual test has been scheduled for November this year, the University may advance the test in view of the results released last night.
The University spokesman said, "The well-being of our students and staff members has always been the first priority of the University. We will ensure the provision of good quality water for consumption within the campus."
