
[date]2015.10.20[/date]
[title]PolyU confers University Fellowship on six distinguished leaders[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) today (20 October) conferred the honorary title of University Fellowship on six outstanding individuals in recognition of their significant contributions to the University and the community.
Presided over by Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak, Chairman of the University Council, the conferment ceremony was held at the Jockey Club Auditorium on PolyU campus. The recipients were warmly greeted by PolyU President, Professor Timothy W. Tong and other senior staff members of the University. The fellowship recipients are (in alphabetical order of last name):
Mr Billy Lam Chung Lun, GBS, JP
Mr Billy Lam has served in the Government for more than 30 years. He is former Chief Executive Officer of the Airport Authority Hong Kong and Managing Director of the Urban Renewal Authority. From 2009 to 2015, Mr Lam was Member of the PolyU Council and its Campus Development Committee. As a current Court Member of PolyU, Mr Lam has zealously supported the development of PolyU.
Ir Professor James Lau Chi Wang, BBS, JP
Professor James Lau is Chairman and Managing Director of James Lau &amp; Associates Limited and Fong On Construction Limited. With more than 40 years of experience in the field of civil engineering, he is dedicated to serving the community with his expertise. A recipient of the Outstanding PolyU Alumni Award, Professor Lau has supported his alma mater by serving as Advisory Committee Member of the Department of Land Surveying and Geo-Informatics, and Senior Advisor to the President.
Dr Joseph Lee Chung Tak, GBS, OStJ, JP
Chairman of Wofoo Plastics and Chemicals Group Dr Joseph Lee Chung Tak is a renowned entrepreneur and philanthropist. In 1997, he set up the Wofoo Foundation and has since served as its Chairman, contributing towards the development of education, public and community service in Hong Kong over the years. In 2013, Dr Lee made a generous donation through the Foundation in support of PolyU’s Mainland Experience Scheme and the development of holistic education for students.
Mr Laurence Li Lu Jen
Mr Laurence Li is a member of the barristers’ chamber Temple Chambers. Committed to giving back to society, he co-established the forum 30SGroup with a group of young professionals in 2003 to explore and give advice on different social issues in Hong Kong based on their professional knowledge. He served as Member of the PolyU Council from 2009 to 2015, actively supporting the development of education.
Mr Irons Sze, BBS, JP
Mr Irons Sze, Executive Director of Hang Tung Resources Holding Limited, has served as President of the Chinese Manufacturers’ Association of Hong Kong from 2012 to 2014, spearheading the city’s industrial and commercial development. With a deep concern for the development of education, he has rendered steadfast support to PolyU’s service-learning and student exchange programmes, which would help enhance the students’ sense of social responsibility and broaden their perspectives.
Ms Yao Jue, JP
Acclaimed violinist Ms Yao Jue is internationally renowned for her exceptional techniques. Over the years, she has been dedicated to making music education accessible. In support of PolyU’s endeavors in promoting music, she served as the University’s Artist-in-Residence in 2014/2015. PolyU students and staff were coached by Ms Yao on performing techniques and the remarkable experience of sharing the stage with her has enriched their perspectives in arts and culture.
Since its introduction in 2000, PolyU has conferred University Fellowship on a total of 97 distinguished persons.
