
[date]2015.06.18[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage Fashion Shows 2015 [/title]
Nearly fifty graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) displayed their design flair and talent at three graduation fashion shows on 16 June and 17 June at the Hong Kong Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre. The graduating students are from the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles and Master of Arts in Fashion and Textile Design. Nearly 4,000 industrialists, fashion designers, media friends and fashion bloggers attended to the Shows.PolyU Fashion Show 2015Officiated by Hon Chung Kwok-pan, Legislative Council Member, (Functional Constituency – Textiles &amp; Garment), Dr Hon Lam Tai-fai, SBS, JP, Legislative Council Member, (Functional Constituency – Industrial [Second]) and Professor John Xin, Head and Chair Professor of ITC, the Show featured 20 collections designed by 20 graduating students studying Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles. Presenting their original collection of six outfits at the Show, the students also competed for seven prizes and three travelling scholarships offered by the industry (See Appendix for the full list of prizes and awardees).Yip Ka-ki Wilson, with his impressive design themed THAT PARADISE WOULD BE A HELL was the winner of the Overall Grand Award and Esquel Outstanding Menswear Award. Impressive Judging PanelThis year's show welcomed Ms Makiko Minagawa, Director of HaaT, Design Director of Issey Miyake Inc. as the VIP Judge. Ms Minagawa has been a partner of Issey Miyake and also the Textile Director of Issey Miyake Design Studio since early 1970. Since 2000, she has served as Creative Director of HaaT, Issey Miyake Inc. In addition to VIP Judge Ms Makiko Minagawa, the judging panel comprises well-known fashion designers and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are:
Ms Janet Cheung, Vice Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Mr Andy Hou, General Manager, Renowned fashion and luxury brand
Mr Stephen Ma, Head of Design, Initial Fashion Company Ltd
Mr Walter Ma, Director, Walter Ma &amp; Co. Ltd
Ms Margaux Painvin, Stylist, PeclersParis
and other representatives from the sponsors.New fashion stars from ITCAnother highlight was the parade of collections from our alumni, namely Mr Derek Chan, Mr Matt Hui, Mr Kay Kwok and Mr Mountain Yam. These four award-winning designers have built their own labels after graduation. Short bio of four alumni designers:Mr Derek Chan (BA graduate, 2011), founder and designer of DEMO. Derek's design focuses on simplistic cut and form, adding contemporary details and elements to traditional classic style to demonstrate a special modern feel. He is now studying at ITC for Master of Philosophy in Fashion and Textile Design. With great interest in science and fashion design, he likes to experiment with different materials, combining fashion and modern technology to create a unique fashion style.Mr Matt Hui (BA graduate, 2008) has worked for internationally renowned brands such as Pringle of Scotland and Shanghai Tang, as well as Hong Kong designer Johanna Ho. In 2012 he continued his studies in Royal College of Arts in London and received his Masters degree in Womenswear Knitwear. Upon his return to Hong Kong in 2014, Matt established his own brand MATT HUI, with a focus on womenswear and knitwear. Using different mediums and materials has become a signature of the brand, and it has made its debut appearance in Hong Kong Fashion Week AW2015.Mr Kay Kwok (BA graduate, 2009) established his own brand KAY KWOK in London in 2013, and is known for its futuristic and contemporary menswear. He debuted his spring and summer collection at the London Fashion Week Menswear in 2013, being the first Hong Kong fashion designer to participate in the celebrated fashion event. Mr Mountain Yam (MA graduate, 2008) In 2008, Mountain Yam was entitled the Overall Winner of Design A Bag Competition. He was also a finalist of the Hong Kong Young Fashion Designers' Contest in 2009. In 2014, Mountain entitled 40 under 40 Recognising High-Flying Design Talents of Today &amp; Tomorrow presented by Perspective Magazine. Mountain established his own labels MOUNTAIN YAM and 112 mountainyam in 2011. In 2013, 112 mountainyam collections were showcased at Paris Fashion Week and another fashion show in The Netherlands.The Knitwear Fashion Show 2015The Knitwear Fashion Show is one of the very few regular events of this kind around the world. This Show not only demonstrates the ability and creativity of the knitwear design students, but also further enhances the collaboration between the industry and ITC. With the concerted effort of 24 graduating students, various knitwear producers and yarn suppliers, this annual Show showcased 24 collections of four outfits from students majoring in knitwear design and technology. The raw materials and manufacturing techniques for the show were sponsored by knitwear producers and yarn suppliers.Ms Stella Fung, Chairman of Estee Ella Limited, and Title Sponsor of the Show, remarked, "The Knitwear Fashion Show has always been the perfect stage for the students of PolyU to showcase their skills and display their designs and creation after years of hard work. As the Title Sponsor of this year's event, Estee Ella is honored to offer support for the future fashion talents and be part of this meaningful programme."MA Fashion Show 2015The Show featured the creative works of nine selected ITC's graduating students in the Master of Arts in Fashion and Textile Design. Each student presented their original collection of eight outfits under their chosen themes, and demonstrated their innovation and creativity inspired by personal visions.About ITCAs the sole provider of tertiary education and taught postgraduate programme in fashion and textiles in Hong Kong, ITC offers interesting and exciting opportunities to those who wish to pursue a career in the dynamic fashion and textiles industry. Since its inception in 1957, ITC is committed to educational training and development for the advancement of the Hong Kong fashion and textile industry through various research and scholarly activities.
