
[date]2015.11.03[/date]
[title]PolyU to honour five distinguished personalities at 21st Congregation[/title]
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) will confer Honorary Doctorates upon five prominent figures in recognition of their distinguished accomplishments and contributions at its 21st Congregation to be held on 14 November 2015 (Saturday).
The honorary degree recipients this year include (in alphabetical order of last name): Dr David C. Chang, Professor Emeritus of New York University Tandon School of Engineering, and Chairman and CEO of Global Maximum Educational Opportunities, Inc.; Mr Ho Kwon Ping, Founder and Executive Chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings; Professor Gang Pei, President of Tongji University; Professor Dame Alison Richard, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge and Senior Research Scientist of Yale University; and Mr John Slosar, Chairman of Swire Pacific Limited.
Dr David C. Chang, Professor Emeritus of New York University Tandon School of Engineering, is also Chairman and CEO of Global Maximum Educational Opportunities, Inc. After graduating with an electrical engineering degree in Taiwan, and obtaining his master's and doctoral degrees in applied physics at Harvard University, Dr Chang started his academic career at the University of Colorado before becoming Dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Arizona State University in the early 1990s. He was appointed as President of Polytechnic University in 1994 and then Chancellor in 2005 until the school was merged with New York University in 2013. A reputable scholar in electromagnetics, Dr Chang has published over 300 journal papers, books and technical reports over the decades. His distinguished accomplishments have brought him accolades including the IEEE Third Millennium Medal and Life Fellow, as well as the New York State's Outstanding Leadership Award. Dr Chang served as a founding member on the National Advisory Council of the Gates Millennium Scholars Programme and has been a driving force behind PolyU's internationalization effortsin his capacity as the Founding Chairman of the University's International Advisory Board. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Engineering.
 
 
Mr Ho Kwon Ping, Founder and Executive Chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings, is one of Singapore's most prominent businessmen. After graduating with a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Singapore, he worked as a broadcast and financial journalist before taking up the reins of his family's business. Mr Ho's passion for travel galvanized him into founding the Banyan Tree Group which has grown into a publicly-listed business comprising hotels and resorts, retail galleries and golf courses. His vision of driving social and economic development through sustainabletourism has brought the Group various prestigious awards. Recognition for Mr Ho includes London Business School Entrepreneurship Award, CEO of the Year at the Singapore Corporate Awards, American Creativity Association Lifetime Creative Achievement Award, Conde Nast Traveller World Savers Award, CNBC's Travel Business Leader Award Asia Pacific, and Hong Kong Design Centre's Design Leadership Award. Mr Ho supports hospitality education by serving as Chairman of the Advisory Committee of PolyU's School of Hotel and Tourism Management, and by providing internship opportunities to the School's undergraduates. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration.
 
Professor Gang Pei, President of Tongji University, is a well-respected expert in molecular cell biology and signal transduction. He is former President of the Chinese Society for Cell Biology, Vice Chairman of the Consortium for Globalization of Chinese Medicine, and Editor-in-Chief of Cell Research. He holds both bachelor's and master's degrees in pharmacy from Shenyang Pharmaceutical University and a PhD degree in biochemistry and biophysics from the University of North Carolina. Professor Pei's research in drug addiction, metabolic disorders, neuro-degeneration and immune diseases have been widely published in international scientific journals. Professor Pei became an elected Member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1999. Accolades for his remarkable achievements include National Outstanding Young Scientists Award, Outstanding Young Scholar Award in Biomedicine and the Commander of the Order of the Lion of Finland. Professor Pei also serves as a member of PolyU's International Advisory Board. Under his leadership, Tongji University and PolyU further enhance their long-term partnership and co-develop doctoral degree and exchange programmes. He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science.
 
 
Professor Dame Alison Richard, a world-renowned anthropologist and conservationist, is hailed as one of the great leaders of higher education of this generation. Having studied anthropology at the University of Cambridge, Professor Richard later received her doctorate at Queen Elizabeth College London while pursuing her academic career at Yale University. She had served as assistant professor of anthropology, Director of the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History, and as Provost of the University from 1994 for eight years. In 2003, Professor Richard became the second female Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge in its history. Among the significant initiatives she led at the university was a one billion-pound fund-raising campaign which helped eliminate budget deficit and establish a bursary scheme for less-advantaged undergraduates. Since completing her term at Cambridge, Professor Richard has returned full-time to her academic and environmental pursuits, and is currently a Senior Research Scientist at Yale. Her distinguished career brought her numerous honours including Green Globe Medal Award of the Rainforest Alliance and Addison Emery Verrill Medal. Professor Richard was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2010. She will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Humanities.
 
 
Mr John Slosar is Chairman of Swire Pacific Limited, overseeing the business of Cathay Pacific Airways, Swire Properties, Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company, Swire Pacific Offshore and Swire Beverages. Mr Slosar, who holds degrees in economics from Columbia University and Cambridge University, joined the Swire Group as a management trainee in 1980 to become its first non-British Chairman.He has been appointed by the Hong Kong SAR Government to the Economic Development Commission's Working Group on Transportation since 2013. He is also Chairman of the Hong Kong-United States Business Council as well as member of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, General Committee of the General Chamber of Commerce, Council of Lingnan University and Advisory Council of the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Mr Slosar has made a remarkable contribution to the advancement of the aviation industry by offering invaluable support and guidance to PolyU's Aviation Services Research Centre which is dedicated to advancing aviation services research and nurturing professionals for the aviation industry in Hong Kong.He will be conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration.
