
[date]2016.06.15[/date]
[title]PolyU fashion design graduates stage Fashion Show 2016[/title]
Twenty graduating students from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU)'s Institute of Textiles and Clothing (ITC) showcased their design flair and talent at the PolyU Fashion Show 2016 on 14 June at the Hong Kong Convention &amp; Exhibition Centre. The graduating students are from the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Scheme in Fashion and Textiles. Over 2,000 industrialists, fashion designers, media friends and fashion bloggers were attracted to the Show.
The Show was officiated by Dr Hon Lam Tai-fai, Legislative Council Member, (Functional Constituency – Industrial [Second]), Mr Anthony Keung, President and CEO of Fenix Group Holdings Ltd, and Professor John Xin, Head and Chair Professor of ITC. ITC is honoured to have invited Ms Masha Ma, MASHAMA CEO &amp; Chief Designer, MASHAMA Ltd as the VIP Judge. Members of the judging panel also comprised well-known fashion designers, scholars and seasoned practitioners of the fashion industry. They are:
Ms Janet Cheung, Vice Chairman, Hong Kong Fashion Designers Association
Professor Eileen Karp, Chairperson, Fashion Design Department, School of Art and Design, Fashion Institute of Technology, USA
Mr Stephen Ma, Head of Design, Initial Fashion Company Ltd
Mr Walter Ma, renowned fashion designer; Director, Walter Ma &amp; Co Ltd
Mr Xaven Mak, Editor-in-Chief, Harper's Bazaar HK
Professor Elinor Renfrew, Head of Fashion Department &amp; Associate Head of Design School, Kingston University, UK
Mr Harrison Wong, renowned fashion designer; Design Director, Harrison Wong Ltd
and other representatives from the sponsors.
Presenting their original collections of six outfits at the fashion show, the students also competed for five awards and three travelling scholarships to Australia and Denmark. Yip Tak-chi, Cobe, with her creative design themed Invisible Children was the winner of the Overall Grand Award. Please refer to the appendix for the full list of awardees.
