
[date]2016.04.18[/date]
[title]Master's Degree in International Wine Management  Grooms Future Leaders of Global Wine Industry[/title]
Professor Jeannie Cho Lee, Professor of Practice (Wine) of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management (SHTM) at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Master of Wine (MW), hosted a wine masterclass on 14 April 2016 to introduce to participants the wines of the world. The masterclass was designed for those who would be interested to find out what the SHTM's Master of Science (MSc) in International Wine Management programme has to offer in terms of advanced knowledge and career prospects.
Offered in Hong Kong – the heart of the booming Asia-Pacific region – by the SHTM, the MSc in International Wine Management is one of a kind in the region. As a key player in the vibrant international wine scene, Hong Kong offers a unique location for anyone aspiring to be a part of this dynamic growth area. Combined with the huge growth of the wine market in Mainland China, the need for wine professionals with advanced, specialised education and a global perspective continues to grow.
"While being a key player in the vibrant global wine industry," Professor Haiyan Song, Associate Dean of the SHTM and Programme Leader, said, "surveys indicate Hong Kong's wine industry requires more sophisticated skills and knowledge to meet the needs of the international wine market. This exceptional programme is designed to meet this demand."
Taught by leading academics, including Professor Jeannie Cho Lee MW, as well as industry experts, the programme aims to groom industry leaders, educators and researchers by deepening their understanding of the latest trends in the wine business and empowering them to lead the industry's future development.
Students of the first cohort will be visiting Burgundy and Bordeaux in France this May on a residential study trip to understand the best practice in wine production, trade and management, with a view to increasing their international exposure and developing global networks. At the same time, they also have the opportunity to learn more about Mainland Chinese wine consumers and gain insights into some of the fastest growing, complex wine markets in the world.
"The MSc in International Wine Management programme targets sustainable industry development through the provision of highly trained, proactive leaders," said Professor Kaye Chon, Dean and Chair Professor of the SHTM and Walter Kwok Foundation Professor in International Hospitality Management. "As part of the School's focus on innovative responses to industry needs, we are not only advancing careers but also making substantial contributions to the sectors we support."
The programme is available in both full-time and part-time modes: www.polyu.edu.hk/htm/msc/iwm.
