[date]13 April 2010[/date]
[title]Citibank University Banking Course 2009 – 2010
Graduation Ceremony[/title]
Citibank and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) today announced the successful completion of Citibank University Banking Course 2009-2010. At the Graduation Ceremony, qualified students were presented with the Certificates of Completion. Four students with distinguished performances were awarded “Outstanding Achievement Award”, and they will have internship opportunities at Citibank in the Asia Pacific region this summer.
At the Graduation Ceremony, Mr. Weber Lo, Chief Executive Officer &amp; Country Business Manager, Citibank Global Consumer Group, Hong Kong, said, “I am very proud that we Citibank, once again, reinforce our commitment to nurture future leaders with the insights and essential skill sets required in the banking operations and practices. These exemplary students have not only demonstrated dedication to their quest for practical financial knowledge and workplace skill, but have also taken a great step forward in terms of personal financial management. I have no doubt that they, equipped with the wisdom from our Citibankers, will be able to go through the business adventures that lie ahead.”
Professor Michael Hui, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of CUHK said, “To meet with the demand for expertise in the business field, The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been striving to develop young talents by providing unique and practical learning experience to our students. We also join hands with experts in the field to develop quality manpower. The success of the Course is undoubtedly the fruit of the joint efforts of Citibank and CUHK. On behalf of the University, I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to all professional Citibankers who kindly volunteered to teach various modules of the Course. They took the time out from their hectic schedule and came all the way to our campus to share their knowledge and insight with our students. Their commitment and contribution to grooming young talents are highly appreciated. My special congratulations go to the four recipients of the “Outstanding Achievement Award” for their excellent performance. I am certain they will excel further upon completion of the internship.”
Following the overwhelming response to the program over the past two years, The Citibank University Banking Course was opened to a wider student community this year by admitting postgraduates and Year One undergraduates for the first time.
In this five-month program, 60 students attended 12 classroom lectures from senior Citibankers, which cover a wide spectrum of retail and investment banking issues, and had a visit to a Citibank branch office, a mid-term test and a final presentation.
Four students were awarded the “Outstanding Achievement Award”, based on their attendance, class participation, mid-term test results and scores of their final group project.
In recognition of their dedication to their studies, these four outstanding students will be awarded valuable internship opportunities at Citibank in the Asia Pacific region. Through working with the banking experts from various cultural backgrounds, they will have a chance to broaden their horizons and explore the real intricate world of banking.
Citibank University Banking Course was first run in Taiwan in 1998 at the National Taiwan University. Citibank now conducts similar banking courses in several other countries in the Asia Pacific region including mainland China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. In Hong Kong, the program was first launched in the University of Hong Kong in 2004. It aims to teach students of higher education the fundamentals of finance and banking, as well as to help develop future leaders to understand complex financial issues.
About Citi
Citi, the leading global financial services company, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 140 countries. Through Citicorp and Citi Holdings, Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com or www.citi.com.
Citi Foundation
The Citi Foundation is committed to the economic empowerment of individuals and families, particularly those in need, in the communities where we work so that they can improve their standard of living. Globally, the Citi Foundation targets its strategic giving on its priority focus areas: Microfinance and Microenterprise, Small and Growing Businesses, Education, and Financial Education and Asset Building. The Citi Foundation works with its partners in Microfinance and Microenterprise and Small and Growing Businesses to support environmental programs and innovations. Additional information can be found at www.citifoundation.com.
Citi Financial Education Program
Based on the belief that knowledge is your greatest asset, the Citi Financial Education Program is a global, company-wide effort to identify, support and implement initiatives that help give individuals, families and communities the tools needed to make sound financial decisions. Citi's 10-year, US$200 million global commitment is focused in three areas: Personal, Small Business and Institutional Financial Education. Additional information about the Citi Financial Education Program, including Citi Foundation guidelines, links and resources and the Citi Financial Education Program Curriculum and Facilitator's Guide may be found at http://financialeducation.citigroup.com.
