[date]6 April 2010[/date]
[title]CUHK Department of Translation and the University of Oxford jointly organize
an international conference on ‘Cultural Interactions: Chinese Literature in English Translation’[/title]
The Department of Translation, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) will be hosting an international conference ‘Cultural Interactions: Chinese Literature in English Translation’ jointly with the Institute for Chinese Studies and the China Centre, University of Oxford, on 15-16 this month (Thursday and Friday) at Cho Yiu Hall, University Administration Building, CUHK. This Conference sets a milestone for the collaboration between the Department of Translation, CUHK, and the Institute for Chinese Studies and the China Centre, University of Oxford. It will also be a significant event for the fields of Sinology, translation and the academic world at large. All are welcome.
The event is held in celebration of the 25th anniversary of the MA in Translation Programme and in memory of Professor David Hawkes, a renowned Sinologist at Oxford University, who passed away last summer. The Conference Chairpersons are Professor Laurence K.P. Wong of the Department of Translation, CUHK and Dr Tao Tao Liu of the Institute for Chinese Studies, University of Oxford.
Scholars from world-renowned universities, including the University of Oxford, University of Cambridge, Australian National University, University of California, Stanford University, University of Washington, Yale University and Pomona College, and professors of the Department of Translation, CUHK, will present papers at the Conference and share their findings on Chinese literature in English translation.
The Conference begins with ‘A Tribute to David Hawkes’ in the morning session of 15 April, to be followed by discussions on the latest trend of Chinese Literature in English Translation in the afternoon. Literary Translation will be the focus of the morning session of 16 April, and scholars from Hong Kong will deliver talks in the afternoon. The Conference will be concluded with a round-table forum to be hosted by Professor Laurence Wong and Dr Liu to discuss the current situation and the future of Chinese Literature in English Translation.
The Conference is sponsored by Chung Chi College and United College, CUHK.
For enquiries, please contact Ms. Lui at 2696-1867 or email miranda.lui@cuhk.edu.hk.
