[title]HKU signs MOU with the National University of Mongolia [/title]
[date]23 Jun 2012[/date]
 
The University of Hong Kong (HKU) signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the National University of Mongolia (NUM) on June 12 (Tuesday). Senior advisor to HKU Vice Chancellor Professor John A. Spinks and the President of NUM Prof. Dr. S. Tumur-Ochir attended the ceremony at NUM.
The signing of an MOU will initiate and facilitate collaboration between the two universities, and between two regions, in terms of academic research, student exchange, and high technology transfer. It also offers opportunities for Mongolian students to study for degrees in HKU, supported financially by scholarships.
This is also the first deep collaboration between a university in Hong Kong and a university in Mongolia facilitated by the Mongolian Consulate-General in Hong Kong.
HKU has actively pursued its role as one of the leading international universities in Asia since its foundation in 1911.  It attracts and nurtures outstanding scholars from around the world through excellence and innovation in teaching and learning, research and knowledge exchange, and through contributing to the advancement of society and the development of leaders through a global presence, and regional significance through engagement with other countries. As HKU approaches its centenary, it continues to make history – with a bold new campus that combines cutting-edge teaching and research facilities with a desire to protect heritage and the environment. The new campus, called the Centennial Campus, will provide state-of-the-art facilities to accommodate the needs of a 40% increase in students in 2012 resulting from the new four-year undergraduate curriculum, as well as to support its mission as a world-class university
Professor Spinks said, “As HKU continues to further develop its links with Asia’s leading institutions, I am very pleased to be able to sign this MOU with the National University of Mongolia. It covers exchanges of students, staff and research collaboration. While the admission standards for HKU are very high by any world standards, we also hope to be able to offer opportunities for talented Mongolian students to study for both undergraduate and research postgraduate degrees in HKU. We currently have very talented students on campus from about 80 countries around the world, and it is important for such globally minded students to know more about one of the world’s most rapidly developing economies -- Mongolia. We are particularly indebted to the Consul-General for Mongolia in Hong Kong, His Excellency Mr. Yadmaa Ariunbold, for his advice and help in developing this collaboration.”
For media enquiries, please contact: Ms. April Ma (Country Manager-Mongolia, International Student Admission), Tel: (852)2241 5120 email: aprilma@hku.hk .



Senior advisor to HKU Vice Chancellor Professor John A. Spinks and the President of NUM Prof. Dr. S. Tumur-Ochir attended the ceremony at NUM



