
[date]2004.08.14[/date]
[title]PolyU partners with Sheffield Hallam to nurture talents for IT and business intelligence[/title]
Hong Kong CyberU (HKCyberU), an online education arm of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, invites applications for its two postgraduate programmes jointly offered with the School of Computing and Management Sciences of Sheffield Hallam University in the U.K. The two programmes which will commence classes in end September are: Master of Science in Information Technology and Management, and Master of Science in Business Intelligence.
The unique MSc programme in Information Technology and Management is designed by the Sheffield Hallam University which aims to enhance students' skills in technical development and strategic management of information systems in organizations. Targeting at business managers and IT professionals, the programme focuses on theories and applications of IT, systems development tools, managerial techniques and organizational philosophies.
The other MSc programme in Business Intelligence is jointly developed by the Sheffield Hallam University and SAS ' an international market leader in business intelligence software and services. With an aim to train up technologists for the industry, this programme equips students with knowledge and solutions in the areas of data mining, credit risk and behavioral monitoring, customer relationship management and supply chain evaluation.
Applicants should have an honour degree or alternatively work experience in a related field. Each programme lasts for about two and a half years. There will be two semesters per year and students will study two to three modules in each semester. Both programmes are supported by the Government's Non-means Tested Loan Scheme and SME Training Fund. The programme, MSc in Information Technology and Management, has also been included in the list of reimbursable courses under the Government's Continuing Education Fund.
An information session of the two programmes will be held with details as follows. Interested parties should call 2882 0811 or send an email to enquiry@hkcyberu.com for reservations.
Date: 23 August 2004 (Monday)
Time: 7 pm
Venue: Room 1010, Core R, PolyU
Deadline for the first round of application is 5 September. For more application and programme details, please visit HKCyberU's website at www.hkcyberu.com.
